Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FiLE  COPY
Report No. 2624-CRB
CARIBBEAN REGION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
November 16, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00     =      BD$2.00           (Barbados)
=     B$ 2.00           (Belize)
=     EC$2.70           (Eastern Caribbean) 2/
=     G$ 2.55           (Guyana)
=     J$ 1.78           (Jamaica)
=     TT$2.40           (Trinidad and Tobago)
=     B$ 1.00           (The Bahamas)
LIST OF ACRONYMS
APC         Agricultural Production Credit
CARICOM     Caribbean Community
CARIFTA     Caribbean Free Trade Association
CDB         Caribbean Development Bank
CDF         Caribbean Development Facility
CFC         Caribbean Food Corporation
CG          Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development
CIC         Caribbean Investment Corporation
DFCs        Development Finance Companies
EEC         European Economic Community Special Action Credit
ECCM        East Caribbean Common Market
FIC         Farm Improvement Credit
FIO         Farm Improvement Officer
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
LDCs        Less Developed Countries
MDCs        More Developed Countries
OCR         Ordinary Capital Resources
SFR         Special Fund Resources
UK          United Kingdom
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USAID       US Agency for International Development
VTF         Venezuelan Trust Fund
1/   As of April 1979
2/   Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia, and St. Vincent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CARIBBEAN REGION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION         ..............................    1
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT ....................................   2
III.   THE SECTORS ........................................    6
The Agricultural Sector ...............................   6
Background ......               .      ..... ........ ....  6
CARICOM Regional Food Plan .................... e...*   7
Future Strategy ........... ..........................   8
The Industrial Sector .............................. .e..    8
The Tourism Sector ..............  ............... ........  9
The Infrastructure Sector ...............................  10
The Financial Sector ......... ........ ... ... ... ........ .  11
IV.   THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK .........................  15
Shareholders ............. .......... *.........................   15
objectives ... ...........................................  15
Policies    ...............................................  15
Board of Governors         .................................  18
Board of Directors ... ...... ......... ... ........  18
Management .................................................  19
Organization ................................................. *0..  19
Staffing .................. ........... . ..        ........  20
UNDP Project ............... . .. . ................. 21
Project Identification and Promotion ...................   21
Project Appraisal ................                       .    21
Project Implementation and Supervision .. ............. 22
Procurement and Disbursement           ......................  23
Accounting and Auditors ........... . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .  23
V.   CDB's PAST OPERATIONS AND LENDING STRATEGY ............. 24
CDB's Past Operations ....                       .      .....  24
CDB's Sectoral Operations .... .......... .......... .........  27
Infrastructure Operations .-............................  28
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Barbados
in March/April 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. Dalla, Jones, Parker,
Freedman, Bostrom, Mahoney, Papadopoulos of the LAC Regional Office, Mr. Menezes
of the Central Projects Tourism Advisory Service, Mr. Hoehenwarter of the
Programming and Budgeting Department, Mr. Sekse of the Industrial Development
and Finance Department, Mr. Amerasinghe-of the Legal Department and Mr. Stoneham,
Co sultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
Agriculture Operations ......       ...........................  29
Industrial and Tourism Operations         . . .32
Experience Under the First Project .......... ........   35
CDB's Lending Strategy ......       ...........................  36
VI.   PROSPECTS ............      ..................................  38
CDB's Projected Operations ...         ..........................  38
Ordinary Capital Operations .................    ...          39
Special Fund Resources            .........................   41
VII.   FINANCIAL POSITION, PROJECTED FINANCIAL
RESULTS AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS.....  43
Ordinary Capital Operations ........... ..      ...............  43
OCR Loan Portfolio          .....................................  44
Projected Financial Conditions and Policy Implications    45
Special Fund Resources ............... ..................  47
Trust Fund Operations . .............. ..................  48
VIII.   THE PROJECT          ............................................  49
Objectives         .............................................  49
Bank Loan Features .        ...         ...............................   49
Country Guarantees and Commitment Fee on the Loan   ...... 50
IDA Credit Features .......       .............................  51
Disbursements .......... ................................  52
Procurement      ........................................      52
IX.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....       ....................  53  'i
Agreements ...............................................  53
Recommendations       ........................................  54
ANNEXES
1.   Basic Indicators for CARIFTA/CARICOM Countries
2.   The Agriculture Sector
3.   The Industrial Sector
4.   The Tourism Sector
5.   The Infrastructure Sector
6.   CDB's Lending through Intermediaries
7.   Shareholders
Table 1. Statement of Subscriptions of Capital Stock and
Voting Power
Table 2. Statement of Capital Stock
8.   Board of Governors



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
9.   Board of Directors and Voting Groups
10.   Organization Chart
11.   Status of the First CDB Project
Table 1. Status of the two Bank Loans
Table 2. Characteristics of Subloans made in the First Operation
12.   Ordinary Capital Resources, Pipeline of Projects for 1979 and 1980
13.   Ordinary Capital Resources, Resource Position as of December 31, 1978
14.   Special Fund Resources, Resource Position as of December 31, 1978
15.   CDB-Historical Financial Statements
Table 1.  Summarized Balance Sheets 1974 to 1978
Table 2. Summarized Statements of Income 1974 to 1978
16.   CDB-Financial projections (1979-1983)
Table 1. OCR, Forecast Statement of Income and Expenses
Table 2. OCR, Forecast Balance Sheets
Table 3. OCR, Forecast Cash Flow
17.   Assumptions used in Financial Projections
18.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan and Credit
19.   Project File






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a Second Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
Project, provides an assessment of the CDB and recommends a Bank loan of
US$23.0 million, an IDA credit of US$7.0 million, and an EEC Special Action
Credit of US$1.0 million.
1.02      The CDB is an associate institution of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM). It was set up in 1970 by fourteen founding regional members,
and two non-regional members -- Canada and the United Kingdom. Venezuela
and Colombia joined later. The United States, though not a member, has
provided technical and financial assistance to the CDB since its establishment.
CDB's main objective, according to its Charter is to "... contribute to the
harmonious economic growth and development of the member countries in the
Caribbean ... and promote economic cooperation and integration among them,
having special and urgent regard to the needs of the less developed members
(LDCs) 1/ of the region". The more developed countries (MDCs) 2/ are expected
to give the LDCs preferred access to CDB's resources, especially its soft
funds.
1.03      Since 1970, CDB has played a commendable role in meeting the objec-
tives stipulated by its Charter to the extent feasible in the changing environ-
ment in the Caribbean (Chapter II). By the end of 1978, CDB had mobilized
resources totalling US$259.0 million and had approved loans amounting to
US$180.0 million in 223 projects.
1.04      The Bank has maintained a close relationship with the CDB since
its inception. CDB's staff strength was built up by the recruitment of
highly qualified staff, particularly West Indians, under the first UNDP
financed technical assistance project for which the Bank was the executing
agency from 1971 to 1976. In 1976, the Bank approved two loans (1233-CRG -
US$17.0 million; 1234T-CRG (Third Window) - US$3.0 million) to CDB to assist
it in financing public and private projects in the agricultural, industrial,
tourism and infrastructure sectors. The main objectives of the loans were to
build CDB into a viable institution and use it for channelling funds to small
projects in the Caribbean and thus play an important role in the development
of the small islands and the economic integration of the region. To build up
CDB's technical capability in all important sectors, LAC projects divisions
other than the IDF division have provided significant technical assistance to
CDB's projects staff, while the IDF division has concentrated its efforts on
institution building and industrial lending. These efforts will be increased
and continued under the proposed operations.
1/   Antigua, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia,
Montserrat, and St. Vincent.
2/   Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago.



- 2 -
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
2.01      The Commonwealth Caribbean consists of nine independent countries -
The Bahamas, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago, two United Kingdom (UK) Associate States -
Antigua and St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and five UK Dependencies - Belize,
Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands and the UK Virgin Islands.
All the states, except the Bahamas, Cayman Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands
and the British Virgin Islands, are members of CARICOM which was established
in 1973 to replace the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA). The LDC
members of CARICOM, with the exception of Belize, also belong to the East
Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) which was established in 1968. All, except
Belize and Guyana, are island states.
2.02      In 1977, the total population of the twelve member states of CARICOM
amounted to about five million with a total GNP of US$7.3 billion (Annex 1).
While the average per capita income of the region in 1977 was about US$1,400,
the per capita income of the LDCs, excluding Belize, was estimated at only
about US$540. The per capita income for MDCs in 1977 was about US$1,500. In
1977 Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago accounted for 70% of GNP of the region
and 61% of the population.
2.03      The economic structure of the region is very unbalanced.  The
pattern of regional demand is strongly influenced by external tastes and
standards, communicated directly by tourists and the media; it is less
well matched with locally available resources than in most of the developing
countries.
2.04      The integration movement among the Commonwealth Caribbean states
can be viewed as an attempt to overcome the handicaps of small size, economic
fragmentation, and extensive dependence on extraregional markets and suppliers
of resources of all kinds. The principal idea behind integration is that a
pooling of local resources and markets will yield a higher level of economic
and social benefits than could be attained individually. On the expectation
that mechanisms can be designed which will lead to this end, or will at
least give them a stronger bargaining position in relation to the outside
world, most of the states consider the integration goal worthwhile.
2.05      The principal instrument of the integration movement, the Treaty
Establishing the Caribbean Community, represents a deepening of the integra-
tion effort which took place in 1968 with the creation of the Caribbean Free
Trade Association, a free trade agreement modelled after the European Free
Trade Association. The CARICOM agreement calls for far-reaching commitments
on the part of the member states which include:
(a) the adoption of a common external tariff and common
protective policy to integrate the regional market for
goods;



- 3 -
(b)  the adoption of common policies among member countries to
promote coordinated regional development. This would
include: (i) coordination of national development planning,
regional industrial prograr.miing, the ratioiali,dLion of
regional agriculture, the joint development of regional
natural resources, as well as regional cooperation in the
development of tourism; (ii) cooperation and consultation
on monetary, payments and exchange rate policies;
(iii) harmonization of fiscal incentives to industry;
(iv) harmonization of intraregional tax and double taxation
agreements; and (v) harmonization of commercial and
corporate legislation;
(b) the negotiation of external trade agreements on a joint
basis; and
(c) the granting of a special regime for the LDCs to facilitate
the flow of private capital from the MDCs to the LDCs.
CARICOM also provides for cooperation in non-economic areas such as
health, education, culture, sea and air transport and meteorology, and
the coordination of the foreign policies of independent member states.
2.06      The movement towards a coordinated regional development strategy
has recently suffered a serious loss of momentum which has come about mainly
as a consequence of the severe economic difficulties faced by most of the
CARICOM member countries during the past three or four years. The world-wide
recession and higher oil prices in 1973 and 1974 came at a time when CARICOM
members had already begun to experience acute economic difficulties in the
form of unprecedented inflationary pressures, and deteriorating balance of
payments and government finances. Trinidad and Tobago actually benefitted
from external price increases because of its petroleum and natural gas
resources; in the case of the sugar producing states, the unusually high price
of sugar in 1974-75 helped to cushion the initial impact of these increases.
2.07      For a time it appeared that a heightened sense of regional communality
and cooperation would save the day. An early response to the international
economic events was to launch a regionally coordinated import substitution
program, and Trinidad and Tobago stood ready to contribute a significant
volume of financial assistance. The subsequent long period of stagflation
in the developed countries, however, combined with ineffective domestic
economic management, aggravated the economic dislocation in most of the
CARICOM states. Economic conditions in Guyana, Jamaica and most of the ECCM
countries reached alarming proportions in 1977, and by early 1978 these
countries were in a state of financial and fiscal emergency.
2.08      The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CG)
under the chairmanship of the Bank was set up in December 1977 to mobilize
external resources to alleviate the serious economic and balance of payments
problems faced by the Caribbean states. As a result, a Caribbean Development
Facility (CDF) was set up to provide local financing to implement development



-4-
projects and the public sector investment programs are presented to the
international community. At the same time, the IMF and the Bank provided
major support to Jamaica and Guyana by means of standby facilities and program
loans.
2.09      Substantial progress has been made since mid-1978 by most countries
of the region. But, at the same time, their adjustment problems have proved
to be more difficult to cope with than previously envisaged. While the
overall trend is encouraging, the task ahead will still be extremely demanding.
This task may become even more difficult than now anticipated owing to the
possible effects of the renewed worldwide inflationary pressures that have
been emerging with greater virulence since last January, the continuing oil
price increases and unfavorable weather conditions for some islands.
2.10      Barbados is the country that has been able to progress fastest over
the last year. Barbados' policies have: attached the highest priority to
the development of efficient foreign exchange earning activities, particularly
export industries and tourism; maintained over long periods well designed
and managed policies to encourage the development of the private sector --
whenever necessary in association with foreign partners; managed her public
finances soundly; and maintained a very positive attitude toward the need to
increase economic collaboration within the region (for instance, by establish-
ing common services) and vis-a-vis the rest of the world.
2.11      Jamaica and Guyana obtained financial assistance from the IMF for
the implementation of adjustment programs, initially through stand-by
arrangements, and later on under the Extended Fund Facility. Both countries
are implementing necessary policy measures agreed upon with the IMF--not an
easy task in view of the substantial reduction in real income required by
such programs. While these countries had no possibility of maintaining their
previous, excessively high levels of domestic expenditure and, therefore,
little choice but to implement these stabilization programs, it is clear
that these efforts have had high political costs. Despite intense political
pressure to abandon their programs, the Governments of Jamaica and Guyana
have basically maintained them, and plan to continue them in the foreseeable
future. In both countries, however, public and private investment have lagged
and production and employment targets have not been met. Continued sound
economic and financial management are essential for both countries in order
to complete the adjustment process and achieve moderate growth over the
next five years.



2.12      GDP in the less developed countries of the English speaking
Caribbean -- Belize and the seven members of the East Caribbean Common
Market -- has grown an average of about 6% in 1978, fueled by a large banana
crop throughout the Windward Islands and a good tourist season (1978/79).
St. Kitts-Nevis, where both sugar output and prices were stagnant, was the
only exception. Most recently in September 1979, Dominica suffered extensive
damage to its infrastructure and all sectors of the economy from a hurricane.
The relief effort, which has just begun is being led by CDB. The public
finances of the region, however, were only able to share partly in the benefits
of growth, as major wage settlements in a number of countries resulted in an
overall reduction in the level of public sector savings. Increased Levels of
public investment in most countries, and tourism, led to larger import bills,
and the increase in foreign exchange earnings was in most cases insufficient
to improve the current account of their balance of payments. Belize also
progressed strongly with a real GDP growth of 6% in the wake of a record sugar
crop despite the impact of a hurricane which hit the country during the year.
2.13      During the second meeting of the Caribbean Group in June 1979,
donors and recipients took the first steps towards adopting regional approaches
to tackle issues of common interest. These included an action program to
strengthen the joint promotion of tourism, particularly in the ECCM; the
continuation of eight regional transportation technical assistance projects;
the strengthening of the energy sector through the development of indigenous
sources and improved energy planning capacities; the preparation of a long
term regional export promotion program; the enhancement of the agricultural
sector, particularly through improved agricultural research and marketing
systems; and the appointment of a task force to encourage the more effective
participation of the private sector in the development process. At the
ECCM level, agreement was reached for the establishment of a pool of experts
and the provision of certain common services. These efforts are likely to
have a favorable impact on the economies of the Caribbean and provide and
assist their longer-term economic development.



- 6 -
III.  THE SECTORS
The Agricultural Sector
3.01      Background. 1/  The agricultural sector in the Caribbean region is
of strategic importance as a source of foreign exchange, employment and
income, but has been characterized, particularly in recent years, by stagna-
tion and declining output. The relative significance of the sector in the
economies of CARICOM members varies widely ranging in terms of GDP, from an
average of 20% in the LDCs to 6% in the MDCs. The region also depends on
agricultural exports for a significant proportion of its foreign exchange
earnings. Output of export crops fell sharply between 1965 and 1972, and
although the value of agricultural exports simultaneously rose due to price
increases, the region switched from agricultural surplus to deficit. In
1977 annual food imports were around US$450 million (about US$80 per capita),
but over two fifths of the population did not attain minimum recommended
protein levels and almost three fifths were below minimum recommended calorie
levels.
3.02      The rise and fall of the plantation system has had a profound
effect on land tenure and use, cropping patterns and social attitudes to
farming in many of the islands, particularly the LDCs. Following the
abolition of slavery and indentured labor, small peasant farmers (often
part-time and mostly subsistence) emerged. There were no incentives to
enable the more able and energetic to move up to larger and more viable
holdings. Consequently, in many of the islands there are now large numbers
of farmers on holdings too small to provide more than meager subsistence,
and very few medium-sized, full-time family farmers capable of responding
to development incentives. Land resources in the islands are extremely
limited. Most islands are small, with a low per capita ratio of agricul-
tural land, much of it with poor fertility. On much of the good land
export crops (sugar, citrus, cocoa and banana) are grown. Some islands
suffer from periodic drought, others from soil erosion, while the hilly
terrain complicates the improvement of roads and other infrastructure.
3.03      The two mainland areas (Guyana and Belize) are generally inaccessible
and remote. Although they have more favorable land per capita ratios, they
suffer from poor accessibility and labor shortages, and much of the unused
land in Guyana is of poor fertility. However, the potential for agriculture
in Belize is large. Lack of manpower is a serious constraint, but highly
mechanized operations are feasible in some instances. Development of medium
sized, commercial, family farms would lead to a more efficient scale of
production and disseminate the benefits of development to a broader section
of the population.
1/   Much of the data under this subheading comes from the Report entitled:
"Regional Agricultural Development and Food Production in the Caribbean:
Report No. 2064-CRB, May 9, 1978".



- 7 -
3.04      Agriculture has a poor social image in most countries, being
associated historically with poverty and drudgery. There is a lack of
suitable and adequate public and private institutions to promote and
encourage development. Support services are often very weak. Credit
services, mainly through DFCs, are generally poorly administered and
inefficient, partly because some DFCs are too small to be viable.
Comparatively little research has been done on crops other than those
for traditional export. Extension services have for the most part been
ineffective. The lack of efficient marketing organizations has been a
major constraint, particularly for food crops for local consumption.
3.05      On the economic side, the major constraints are higher urban
labor pay levels that make agricultural employment unattractive, the
small size of national markets, high production costs, low productivity
and sometimes inadequate pricing policies. A wide range of crops can be
grown, but much of the region (except perhaps Belize and Guyana) is not
very suitable for small grain and cereal production, making it extremely
difficult to avoid large scale importation of grains for human and livestock
consumption.
3.06      The constraints to agricultural development are thus formidable.
They explain why production has stagnated in recent years and why it would
be unrealistic to expect rapid expansion in the near future, even if a
concerted effort could be mounted. Nevertheless, there are some encouraging
signs for the future. Social attitudes are changing, support services and
infrastructure are improving, and the production of some crops is increasing.
There is also evidence that, with reasonable pricing policies, both produc-
tivity and profitability can be impressively improved.
3.07      CARICOM Regional Food Plan.  The CARICOM Regional Food Plan was
adopted in 1976 to deal with the high annual food imports and the poor nutri-
tional levels. Its major objectives are to improve food production within the
region so as to attain an adequate supply of food at affordable prices and a
satisfactory nutritional level throughout the region. These would be achieved
by encouraging direct production projects and improvement of support services.
Development of fisheries and dairying, and the production of fruit,
vegetables, hatching eggs and small livestock would be allocated to LDCs.
3.08      Although a number of agencies, including CDB, are expected to
participate directly and indirectly in the Plan, the Caribbean Food
Corporation (CFC), established by CARICOM in 1976, is intended as the main
implementation channel. In spite of the inordinate time and effort spent
by some CDB staff, progress to date has been remarkably slow, mainly
because of the difficulties of regional cooperation among governments.
The CFC expects to appoint a managing director soon which would permit CDB
to reduce its involvement to that of a potential investor in some of its
projects.



8-
3.09      Futiure Strategy.  Based on experience to date, regional coopera-
tion in agriculture is clearly difficult to achieve, mainly because of the
problems in getting the participating governments to agree on courses of
action. Nevertheless, the CG has recently initiated a technical assistance
project for improving agricultural research in the Caribbean. Apart from CFC,
the other major attempt at regional cooperation in agriculture, the corn/soya
project in Guyana, has run into difficulties for the same reason. In spite of
their many common problems, governments tend to try and solve them at the
national rather than regional level. Thus, the best strategy for the future
would be to concentrate on projects at the national level, where they can be
dealt with much more expeditiously.
3.10      Overall strategy should include:  (a) encouragement of production
of crops for which each territory has a natural advantage and which can be
satisfactorily marketed; (b) emphasis on intensifying land use systems and
improving productivity, particularly by small farmers; and (c) encouragement
of improvement in the present poor agricultural support services. A major
constraint in improving the lot of the smaller farmers has been the weakness of
DFCs in administering credit programs. These DFCs are now being strengthened
(para. 5.34). Moreover, commercial banks are expected to play a more important
role in channelling credit to agriculture in the future.
The Industrial Sector 1/
3.11      The manufacturing sector in the Caribbean consists mainly of
light industry. Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Guyana have some heavy
industry based on their petroleum and bauxite resources but linkages
between their heavy industry and the rest of their economies is minimal.
A detailed discussion of the manufacturing sector is provided in Annex 3.
In the MDCs, which accounted for 94% of manufacturing in the region,
manufacturing only accounts for 12% of GDP on the average and employs
some 14% of the work force. Jamaica possesses the largest manufacturing
sector followed by Trinidad and Tobago. In Guyana manufacturing is still
a minor sector accounting for only 6% of GDP. Industrial activity in
the LDCs is limited.
3.12      Manufacturing in the region suffers from three main constraints:
the smallness of domestic markets, the lack and/or inadequacy of raw materials
and intermediate products, and the scarcity of qualified entrepreneurs. These
constraints have led to a heavy dependence on imported materials and worked
against the development of an efficient type of industrialization. CARIFTA
and CARICOM were created to stimulate investment in manufacturing by making
rules for trade liberalization (dismantling national tariffs and quotas and
establishing an origin system), by establishing a common external tariff and a
1/   For a more detailed discussion of the sector, see IBRD Reports No.
2043-CRB "Industrial Development and Development Finance Companies in the
Caribbean," May 1978 and 2501-CRB "Industrial Investment Incentives in
the Caribbean," May 1979.



-9-
regional system of quantitative restrictions, and by an agreement to harmonize
fiscal incentives.
3.13      With the exception of Barbados and St. Lucia, the incentive schemes
have not created the stimuli needed for a number of reasons. High levels of
effective protection favor capital-intensive operations in an area of severe
unemployment. This is encouraged by duty-free imports of capital goods and
intermediate goods and liberal depreciation allowances. The incentive system
does not encourage efficient resource allocation.
3.14      The past strategy in the region was to attempt to achieve self-
sufficiency for basic goods and services and reduce the region's dependence on
external sources of supply. Selective import substitution is to be continued
in some countries where there are advantages still to be derived from this
policy. However, the region's comparative advantage lies in its pool of labor
together with its access to the US and EEC markets. The emphasis of most new
industrial ventures should therefore be extraregional. Also, a number of
countries in the region must establish a more favorable investment environ-
ment to attract external finance, both public and private, technology and
marketing connections. At the June 1979 meeting of the Caribbean Group (CG)
it was agreed that task forces should be established to recommend measures to
stimulate private sector activities and prepare a long-term regional export
promotion program.
The Tourism Sector
3.15      The Caribbean region is one of the major holiday destinations
in the world catering during the winter season mainly to the more affluent
North Americans and Europeans and during the off-season to the more budget
minded tourists. Annex 4 provides a detailed discussion of the tourism
sector in the Caribbean. The total number of tourists has increased from
3.7 million in 1970 to more than 5 million in 1978, despite a slow down
in growth between 1974 and 1976 due to the recession and competition from
the US Bicentennial and the Olympic Games in Canada. Recent growth is
attributable to the economic recovery in the tourist-generating countries,
the increasing value of European currencies vis-a-vis the dollar, the recent
introduction of discount fares on regularly scheduled flights and the develop-
ment of one-stop charters. The growth has also been made possible by the
availability of accommodation built during the tourist boom in the late 60s
and early 70s. Tourism has been a leading growth factor in some of the
Caribbean economies and one of the principal sources of foreign exchange.
3.16      Future prospects for tourism are considered favorable with growth
over the longer term forecast at 5% to 6% a year. The main constraints
to growth are likely to be difficulties of air access to some islands and
a shortage of suitable accommodation. Emphasis should be placed on the
improvement of regional airlines and on planning to increase investment in
accommodation and related facilities especially in the Eastern Caribbean.
This expansion should go hand in hand with a regional plan for marketing
and promoting tourist facilities in the islands. The June 1979 CG meeting
agreed to establish a working group to prepare a plan of action for regional
tourism promotion and development.



- 10 -
The Infrastructure Sector
3.17      The infrastructure sectors of transportation, water supply and
power are characterized by local institutions with weak administrative,
management, planning and operating practices (Annex 5). In many cases tariffs
do not cover costs and billing and collection is inefficient, resulting in
inadequate revenues and government subsidies to meet deficits. Project
preparation by local authorities is often done on an ad hoc basis, which
results in uneconomic projects. Moreover, in their project analysis they
pay little regard to financial aspects.
3.18      In the power sector, energy is relatively high in cost due to:
(i) large fixed investments that must be borne by small service areas that
cannot be interconnected; (ii) frequent breakdowns caused by poor maintenance
requiring large and costly reserve capacity 1/. Future investments in oil and
natural gas exploration, in geo-thermal and hydro generation, where they are
feasible, would decrease oil imports. Better maintenance and project planning,
possibly to be carried out by a regional common service group, would reduce
the need for standby generation capacity.
3.19      Water and sewerage services are usually supplied by a central
water authority on each island. Rate structures are antiquated and are
often related to the rental value of the properties served. Of the total
water supplied, a relatively low percentage is through house connections,
and few of these are metered. Most water is delivered through extended
distribution lines with multiple stand-pipes. With the exception of Barbados
and the Bahamas, most systems depend on surface sources by gravity or pumping.
Treatment is usually by filtration and chlorination is unreliable. In many
systems, service is inadequate with low pressure and occasional rationing in
the dry season. Public sewer systems are very limited and the majority of the
population makes do with soakage pits, septic tanks and pit privies. The Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO) has agreed to carry out a water supply
sector study to identify new projects and the organizational shortcomings of
the water supply agencies. The study is expected to be carried out in September
1979.
3.20      An optimal regional transport system is an essential part of the
regional integration process. The two fundamental problems of the individual
CARICOM states--isolation and smallness--can be alleviated only by efficient
and reliable transport systems, by both sea and air. The LDCs in particular
are dependent on efficient sea transport for encouraging industrial and
agricultural investment and developing merchandise trade, and an efficient
air transport for the development of tourism. There are several areas where
greater regional cooperation would be instrumental in improving intraregional
and extraregional transport services, and in reducing transport costs.
Coordinated planning of investment in physical facilities and equipment
is urgently needed in order to avoid duplication and over-investment and
minimize operating transport costs.
1/   See Bank Report No. 2511-CRB "Caribbean Energy Survey".



- 11 -
3.21       In general, lack of transport does not constitute a serious
impediment to economic growth, as most countries have already made the
major investments in trunk roads, ports and airports necessary to support
a reasonably good level of basic service. As a result, the costs of
transport in the region are not unreasonably high, so with the exception
of feeder roads, only limited benefits would accrue from new major invest-
ments in the sector. On the other hand improved maintenance, particularly
for roads, would produce high benefits by preserving the existing capital
stock in the sector. Funds could be used to build up productive sectors
rather than be diverted to rebuild basic infrastructure. Significant
benefits could also be achieved for ports and airports by improving the
operation of existing units through better organization and management.
The Financial Sector
3.22      Monetary Cooperation and Coordination.  The CARICOM member countries
currently participate in a modest degree of monetary cooperation comprising
mutual consultation on exchange rate matters and a regional clearing arrange-
ment among the Central Banks of the MDCs, the Monetary Authority of Belize,
and the Eastern Caribbean Currency Authority, which performs some central bank
functions for the seven LDCs. The CARICOM Treaty expresses intentions to
extend and deepen this monetary cooperation and adopts the view that "exchange
rate stability as between themselves is necessary to promote smooth functions
of the Common Market". All Caribbean state currencies are now pegged to the
US dollar to facilitate international trade.
3.23      Financial Institutions in the CARICOM. The diversity of Caribbean
financial institutions would indicate a mature, integrated financial system
in each of the MDCs. Commercial banks, life insurance companies, general
insurance companies, government savings banks, building societies, special
purpose development banks, trust companies, post office savings and merchant
banks may all be found in the larger Commonwealth Caribbean nations, with
the financial environment being mainly regulated in each nation by a central
bank with considerable legal powers. In fact, Caribbean financial institutions
and practices mirror a long history of dependence on metropolitan centers;
a legacy which continues to hamper the effective deployment of locally generated
financial resources for economic development. It is only in the past 15 years
when independent central banks were created (Jamaica's in 1960, Trinidad and
Tobago's in 1964, Guyana's in 1965, and Barbados' in 1973), that serious
efforts have been made to reduce this historical dependence. Financial
institutions in the LDCs are regulated by the East Caribbean Currency
Authority situated in St. Kitts.
3.24      The Commercial Banking System.  The financial sector in the Caribbean
is essentially dominated by the commercial banking system. Almost all commer-
cial banks in the English speaking Caribbean are either controlled or owned
by the UK, Canada and US multinational banks. However, in each of the
MDCs there is one Government-owned or controlled commercial bank. Generally,
foreign affiliated commercial banks are well managed and efficient. The
opposite is generally true for most of the Government-owned DFCs and commercial
banks. The size and growth of the commercial banking system are indicated in
Table 1 below:



- 12 -
Table 1:  MDCs -  COMPARATIVE DATA ON THE COMMERCIAL BANKING SYSTEM
(in US$ million)
December 1974             March 1978
Loans and                Loans and
Deposit      Advances    Deposit    Advances
Bahamas                   210.9         317.5       276.6        390.2
Jamaica                   411.2         374.8       642.2        426.8
Trinidad and Tobago       289.7         194.5       848.1        640.7
Barbados                   86.1          78.7       205.9         158.2
Guyana 1/                  66.7          42.5       133.2          68.2
Total                 1,064.6       1,008.0    2,106.0       1,684.1
Source: Bank of Jamaica Monthly Review
1/   September 1977
3.25      As of March 31, 1978 the commercial banking system in MDCs had total
deposits amounting to US$2.1 billion, or about 29% of the GNP of MDCs in 1977.
This figure indicates the high availability of financial resources in the
MDCs. Deposits of the commercial banks increased at an annual rate of 20%
from the 1974 period, showing a good performance in mobilizing local resources.
In 1974, Jamaica accounted for 39% of deposits and 37% of outstanding loans.
In March 1978, the commercial banking system of Trinidad and Tobago became
the largest due to the strength of its economy aided by oil income. This
was achieved despite the fact that interest rates paid on savings were low
(Table 2).
Table 2:  MDCs - COMPARABLE INTEREST RATES AS OF MARCH 31, 1978
(% p.a.)
Time deposits
Prime rate        Savings         (90 days)
Bahamas                            N.A.             5.0               6.0
Jamaica                            11.0             7.0         2.0-12.0
Trinidad and Tobago           8.0-11.0          2.5-5.0         4.0- 6.0
Barbados                      7.0- 8.5          2.5-5.0         3.5- 5.0
Guyana 1/                           7.5             3.5               4.5
Source: Central Bank Reports
I/   December 1977
N.A. - Not available



- 13 -
3.26      The level of interest rates in the English speaking Caribbean has
been low traditionally because of the low rate of inflation. However, the
inflationary experience since 1973 has raised a fundamental question about
the adequacy of interest rates in the Caribbean. While saving rates are
controlled, the prime lending rate of commercial banks has been allowed to
move freely. Thus, most banks are generally profitable while small savers are
not adequately compensated. Recently deposit rates have increased in Jamaica
and Guyana as a result of IMF agreements. There is clearly a need to carry
out a study of the adequacy of the interest rate structure on a country by
country basis. The problem of interest rates is further exacerbated by the
low rates charged by the DFCs, which are inefficient and highly subsidized
(see para. 3.31). They could become more viable if they charged more realistic
rates. The adequacy of the interest rate policies of the DFCs will be reviewed
in the context of the Bank's consultation on CDB's sectoral policies
(paras. 4.20 and 5.48) and its action plans to strengthen DFC's (para. 3.31).
3.27      While the commercial banks have been able to mobilize resources,
they have not channelled many resources to directly productive sectors as
illustrated in Table 3.
Table 3:  MDCs-  - PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF COMMERCIAL BANK
LOANS AND ADVANCES BY SECTOR
(as of March 1978)
Distrib.
Manufact.   Agric.    Trade    Personal    Others    Total
Jamaica               18.0        12.6       10.0      18.1        41.3      100.0
Trinidad and Tobago  21.0          1.9       13.6      43.9        19.6      100.0
Barbados               9.3         4.6       15.6      26.4        44.1      100.0
Guyana 2/             22.2         6.6       35.5      14.9        20.8      100.0
1/   Data for Bahamas not available.
2/   September 1977
Source: Bank of Jamaica Statistical Digest
3.28      Most commercial bank loans in the Caribbean are for consumer durables
and distributive trade, which includes tourism. Term lending for agriculture
and industry has been minimal except in Trinidad and Tobago. Since the
commercial banking system is the most efficient one in terms of mobilizing
local resources, the governments of the Caribbean and CDB should find ways
to encourage the banks to increase their term lending to the productive
sectors. CDB could play the role of catalyst by cofinancing projects with
commercial banks. For example, it could finance the later maturities of
loans and leave the early ones for the banks. The governments could encourage
commercial banks b;. (i) setting up a refinancing scheme along the lines



- 14 -
of the World Bank Jamaica SSE projects 1/; and (ii) establishing a credit
guarantee scheme. A recent study 2/ on the possible role of commercial banks
in lending to SSEs in the Caribbean is now being reviewed by CDB with a view
to developing a program for working more closely with commercial banks (see
para. 3.31).
3.29      The Development of Specialized Financial Institutions.  One method
employed by Caribbean governments to facilitate the allocation of credit
has been the creation of government-owned development finance institutions.
These may be multiple purpose development finance institutions or may be
specialized in certain types of lending such as general agriculture, small
farmer credit, manufacturing and tourism, small scale industry, or housing.
The role of the new financial institutions is to compensate for the inability
of the commercial banks to satisfy the need for long-term lending to priority
sectors. They are also premised on the need to build up nodes of technical
expertise to identify, appraise, monitor, and service projects to help over-
come the short supply of qualified personnel in the Caribbean.
3.30      Generally, these institutions do not mobilize private sector savings
but operate mainly as conduits for funds already mobilized by the government,
commercial banks, or external development agencies. The heavy reliance on
"captive funds" has permitted them to grant implicit interest rate subsidies
to most of their borrowers which emphasizes their selective credit function
as distinct from genuine resource allocation.
3.31      In the LDCs, government intermediary institutions have been estab-
lished with the encouragement and assistance of CDB, and in many cases their
resources for lending have come almost exclusively from CDB. These institu-
tions, as might be expected, have experienced far more difficulty than the
MDC intermediaries in attracting qualified staff and have found it necessary
to depend on other institutions, such as CDB, for technical assistance. Under-
capitalization is a fairly common problem of the LDC intermediary institutions
and this structural deficiency, combined with interest rate policies that
produce little or no income, usually makes them dependent on government
budgetary assistance to cover operating costs. The problems faced by DFCs
have been thoroughly studied and well documented (see Annex 6). CDB is now
preparing an action plan for each DFC in order to make them viable whenever
possible. In those cases where they cannot be made viable, CDB would use
other institutions, such as commercial banks, to channel agricultural and
industrial credit.
1/   Under the project (IBRD Report 1951a-JM), commercial banks could refinance
up to 100% of loans with the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). The Premier Invest-
ment Corporation (PIC), a subsidiary of BOJ, also operates a credit
guarantee scheme, which guarantees up to 50% of commercial bank loans to
eligible SSEs for a fee.
2/   Gerald Alter - A Proposal for a Caribbean Industrial Finance Facility for
Small Scale Enterprises - February 1979 - USAID-C-BRG-538-79-002.



- 15 -
IV. THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Shareholders
4.01      CDB's Charter provides that each member shall subscribe to shares
of its capital stock and that the regional members must hold not less than
60% of its shares. The authorized capital of the CDB as of December 31,
1978 was US$231.6 million, of which US$187.1 million had been subscribed.
Of the subscribed amount, US$34.2 million was paid up and US$152.9 million
subject to call when required by CDB to meet its obligations. An increase in
the authorized and subscribed capital stock of US$50.0 million was approved
during CDB's annual meeting in April 1979, of which US$20.0 million is to be
paid up, as shown in Annex 7. Membership is divided into 18 regional states
and territories and two non-regional states. The first group is subdivided
into more developed countries (MDCs), less developed countries (LDCs) and
donor countries. The regional donors, Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela, and
Colombia, hold 24% of the shares with regional borrowing MDCs and LDCs having
41%. The non-regional donor states of Canada and the United Kingdom hold 35%
of the shares.
Objectives
4.02      CDB's Charter states that its main objective shall be to contrib-
ute to the harmonious economic growth and development of the member countries
in the Caribbean and to promote economic cooperation and integration among
them, having special regard to the needs of the less developed members of
the region. In fulfilling this objective, CDB is required to assist its
regional members in the coordination of their development programs, in
the provision of appropriate technical assistance and in the financing of
their projects and programs. CDB shall also cooperate with national,
regional and international organizations or other entities concerned with
the development of the region.
Policies
4.03      CDB's Charter states that it will be guided by sound development
banking principles and that it shall finance only economically sound, techni-
cally feasible and properly appraised projects. In doing so CDB can finance
private as well as public borrowers with debt or equity investments. In
making or guaranteeing a loan, CDB has to pay due regard to the prospects that
the borrower will be able to meet the obligations under the loan contract.
CDB is required to supervise its investments and to make certain that its
funds are used with due attention to economy and efficiency. Its Policies
and Procedures Manual requires that projects financed from Ordinary Capital
Resources (OCR) should normally have a minimum financial and economic rate of
return of 12%. In the case of projects with low financial rates of return and
which are financed from Special Fund Resources (SFR), the economic rate of
return should normally be a minimum of 15%, so as to justify CDB's funding
under its Charter requirement for "high developmental priority". CDB has
agreed to carry out the project and its operations in accordance with its
Policies and Procedures Manual.



- 16 -
4.04      In addition to general guidelines, the Charter contains a
number of operating limitations designed to safeguard CDB's financial
soundness. For example, CDB must maintain a reasonable diversification
in its investments in equity capital, and the total of these investments
may not exceed 10% of its ordinary paid-in capital and reserves (not
including the special reserve). No similar limitation applies to CDB's
lending by country or loan size in relation to CDB's paid-in capital and
reserves. This risk is a significant one, since CDB's capital is relatively
small, and the diversification of its loan portfolio is limited to five
MDC and eight LDC borrowers. So far, CDB has preferred to make country
credit decisions on a more flexible and informal basis (para 5.07) but does
see the need in principle to limitations on its maximum country exposure.
To ensure that the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit will be reasonably
distributed among CDB's member countries, the loan agreement and IDA credit
provide that, except in special circumstances where the Bank/IDA may otherwise
agree, CDB would not use more than 35% of the proposed Bank loan or IDA credit
for projects in any one member country.
4.05      CDB's Lending and Investments Policy statement also provides that
the minimum size of loan commitments will be US$100,000 equivalent. Loans
from OCR, which are at CDB's risk, to governments, can finance up to 80% of
project costs in the case of the LDCs and 70% in the case of MDCs, which
represent the estimated foreign exchange components. Loans to private borrowers
are limited to two-thirds of project costs subject to an acceptable debt/equity
ratio. Loans from SFR, which are administered by CDB on behalf of donors, are
only made to governments, and can finance up to 90% of project costs. In its
operations, CDB must give priority to the financing of enterprises which are
effectively controlled by nationals (para. 5.30), member governments or their
public agencies. CDB is required to see that loans are "adequately secured".
For private lending this normally means a first mortgage on land or other form
of security without prior claim.



- 17 -
4.06      Details of CDB's loan terms and conditions are given in Table 4
below:
Table 4: CDB: PRINCIPAL LOAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Ordinary Resources         Soft Resources
Interest Rates /1 /2
Government (Infrastructural
and Public Utilities)                         9%                      4%
Government financial intermediaries             8 1/2%                  4%
Productive enterprises
(Industry and Hotels)                       10 1/2%
Productive enterprises (Agricultural)           9 1/2%
Upper Loan Limits
LDC governments                         80% of project cost       90% of project cost
MDC governments                         70% of project cost       80% of project cost
Private borrowers                       two-thirds of project
cost
Lower Loan Limits                             US$100,000              US$100,000
Commitment Fee                          3/4 of 1% p.a. on
undisbursed balance
from a date 60 days
after signature of
Loan Agreement
Term and Grace Period
Government:
grace period                          Normally 2 years         Up to 5 years
term after grace period               10-18 years               15-20 years
Private borrowers:
grace period                          Up to 5 years
term after grace period               5-10 years
Exchange Risk                           Borne by borrower         Borne by borrower
or guarantor             or guarantor
/1   Includes 1% p.a. commission required by CDB's Articles of Agreement as a
Special Reserve against losses.
/2   CDB's interest rates for direct loans are generally adequate and have been
in line with international levels since the borrowers of all resources
bear the foreign exchange risk. In the case of loans to financial inter-
mediaries, the government normally assumes the foreign exchange risk.
Onlending rates of the financial intermediaries do not in some cases
reflect the level of domestic inflation. CDB is continuing its study of
this issue in the context of its action plan to upgrade and strengthen
local DFCs.



- 18 -
In order to relate its lending rate more closely to its costs of borrowing,
CDB is considering the use of a lending rate structure for its OCR which is
more unified than the present one. In June 1979, CDB's management increased
the term for loans to private tourism projects from 15 to 18 years, since this
sector normally requires longer repayment periods to be financially viable.
Agreement was reached that CDB would not change its Charter, Policies and
Procedures Manual or Lending and Investments Policy, if they would adversely
or materially affect CDB's operations or financial condition.
4.07      CDB is precluded by its Charter from taking a foreign exchange
risk with borrowed funds, so it always passes on this obligation to borrowers
in its loan and credit agreements. As long as capital contributions are
held in the contributor's currency, the contributing country must maintain
their value. No such maintenance of value provision exists for current income
and reserves. For accounting purposes, and in accordance with standard
accounting practice, any gains or losses arising as a result of differences
in rates applied to income and expenses and to assets and liabilities are
shown as an exchange gain or loss in the determination of income for the year.
Board of Governors
4.08      The Board of Governors is the highest policy-making body of CDB.
Each member country 1/ is represented on its Board of Governors by appointing,
for an indefinite period, a governor and an alternate.  The Board of Governors,
headed by a rotating annual chairman, is composed of 17 governors (Annex 8),
which meets at least once a year or whenever summoned by a majority of the
members of CDB. Voting power is roughly proportional to shares subscribed,
with a slight weighting in favor of the smaller member territories. All
the powers of the CDB, other than those specifically assigned to the Board
of Directors (Article 30 of the CDB Charter), are vested in the Board of
Governors which may delegate them to the Board of Directors except for the
admission of new members, changes in authorized capital, Charter amendments,
suspension of members and approval of CDB's annual financial statements.
Board of Directors
4.09      The Board of Directors is composed of 11 members (Annex 9),
appointed for a renewable two-year period, of whom nine represent the
regional members of CDB and two the non-regional members. The Board
of Directors which meets at least every two months is responsible for
the general policy and the direction of the operations of the Bank. The
Board exercises all powers delegated to it by the Board of Governors and,
in conformity with the Charter, takes decisions concerning loans,
guarantees and other investments by the CDB. It also approves the
administrative budget and submits accounts pertaining to each financial
year for approval by the Board of Governors.
1/   Except for Montserrat, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, and
Turks and Caicos Islands, who jointly elect one governor.



- 19 -
Management
4.10      The President of CDB, under the guidance of the Board of Directors,
of which he is chairman, conducts the day-to-day business of the bank. He
serves for a five-year term and may be re-elected. Mr. William Demas, the
current President, completed his first term in September 1979 and was re-elected
for a second term by the Board of Governors. Mr. Demas and his management team
have successfully guided the institution through a difficult period of adjust-
ment in which its borrowing countries in the Caribbean were severely affected
by the world-wide economic recession. At the same time, several of these
countries were also making the transition from colonial status to independence.
During this period, management continued to maintain CDB's reputation for
attracting qualified staff and promoting high quality projects in the region.
Increasingly, CDB is emerging as the forum for discussion of the region's
economic problems through its Board of Governors' meetings and at various high
level conferences.
4.11      Management within the CDB relies heavily on a formal system
of committees. The most important one is the Management Committee made
up of the president and his department directors. It meets on a regular
basis at least once a week to discuss issues requiring management decision.
There are also standing committees consisting of the same directors to make
decisions on investment management, loan approvals and loan supervision.
Organization
4.12      The quality of CDB staff and their project analysis have improved
steadily over the years, but as CDB grew, its operations suffered increasingly
from an inappropriate organizational structure. Responsibility for loan pro-
cessing was divided between two departments, programming was inadequate, and
these problems, combined with delays in the member countries, resulted in a
great deal of slippage in lending programs. Lending to DFCs was fragmented
among several divisions and responsibility for supervision was unclear.
4.13      In January 1979, a reorganization, recommended by the UNDP and
endorsed by the Bank, was carried out, principally in the Projects and
Programming departments. The Legal, Administration and Finance departments
have been functioning well and were not affected in any significant way by
the reorganization. The reorganization is designed to unify all projects
staff under one director while the director of Economics and Programming
is responsible for country economic studies and lending programs, quality
control and post evaluation of project work. In the Projects Department
there are now four deputy directors (DD), three in charge of sectors (agri-
culture, industry and DFCs, and infrastructure) and one in charge of project
design, technical assistance and special integrated projects. Reporting to
the deputy directors are assistant directors (AD) as shown in Annex 10, each
responsible for a portfolio of projects. The rest of the projects staff
are not permanently assigned. For example, project leaders, who are respon-
sible for specific projects to the AD in whose portfolio the project falls,



- 20 -
may report to more than one AD at any one period of time. The same may
apply to other staff, especially financial analysts who may work on projects
in a number of sectors. Management is therefore by project and not by depart-
ment. Responsibility for staff is unclear and the programming of staff time
is very difficult to coordinate effectively. This coordination function
is the responsibility of the Projects Management Committee made up of the
director, his deputies and other staff as needed. If lines of responsibility
are more clearly drawn, the quality control function in the Projects Department
might be improved as well.
4.14      The degree of "floating" is not great in practice as most staff
specialize in one sector. Nevertheless, management is aware that this system
might be improved and intends to keep the system under review. In the meantime
the recruitment of a senior advisor for the projects department to strengthen
its quality control of projects is being considered.
Staffing
4.15      CDB has a total staff of 164, of whom 79 are professionals
(Annex 10). Some 20 of the professional staff are supplied by foreign aid
agencies under technical assistance programs. Although CDB has developed
a cadre of experienced projects specialists to handle its present volumes of
lending, it has recently hired additional staff to handle the projected
expansion in its lending and its increased emphasis on new sectors (Chapter
VI). Most of these new staff members are experienced in their fields but not
yet familiar with the requirements and procedures of a development banking
institution. Staff is forecast to increase further with the growth in
CDB's total lending program and loan portfolio.
4.16      In the past, CDB obtained considerable assistance from outside
agencies, especially the Bank and the UNDP, in recruiting specialized staff.
With its increasing size and the importance and variety of its lending
program, CDB should rely less and less on outside agencies to carry out this
crucial function. The assistant director of administration is presently in
charge of recruitment in addition to his other responsibilities. CDB's top
management takes an active role in recruitment as well. In order to reduce
this demand on management's time, CDB should consider appointing a recruit-
ment officer who would establish a manpower planning program for CDB and a
program for the direct recruitment of professional staff. He would also be
responsible for coordinating the UNDP staff project outlined in para. 4.19
below.
4.17      Apart from recruiting additional staff, CDB will need to use
its technical assistance fund and short-term consultants more effectively.
Moreover, in reviewing CDB's role in the various sectors and its lending
program, areas have been identified where Bank staff can assist CDB in
devising appropriate sectoral policies and upgrading CDB's capability at
various stages of the project cycle. Bank projects staff in each sector
should continue to work closely with CDB in selected preparation, appraisal
and other missions and provide assistance and advice at the technical level
and in the development of strategies and operational policies. In certain
cases, CDB staff could join Bank missions for on-the-job training.



- 21 -
4.18      During appraisal, a tentative work program was reviewed with CDB
for FY80 involving Bank staff from the Central Projects Tourism Advisory
Service and from Agriculture, Highways, Ports, Railways and Aviation, Water
Supply and Sewerage, Energy and the 'Industrial Development and Finance
Divisions of LAC Projects. Bank staff are expected to participate as
mentioned in para 4.17 to the extent they can be made available and their
work plans coordinated with those of CDB staff.
UNDP Project
4.19      The Bank was involved as executing agency under the first UNDP
project to finance CDB staff requirements. The project was successful in
getting CDB functioning effectively and a second UNDP technical assistance
grant was made in 1978. At present, four staff members of CDB, including a
deputy director and two assistant directors are employed under this program.
In addition, 12 other staff members are receiving salary supplements under
the program.  This assistance has beien instrumental in attracting and retain-
ing qualified experts, and in fulfilling the objective of encouraging the
repatriation of some highly qualified West Indians to CDB.  Funds are also
used to finance the ongoing technical assistance provided by the Bank in the
form of on-the-job training, orientation visits and EDI courses.  The UNDP
project expires at the end of 1981; an extension of two more years is expected
by CDB's management.
Project Identification and Promotion
4.20      At present, project promotion and identification take place primarily
as a result of contacts developed by CDB projects staff in member countries.
Projects so identified are reviewed by the Projects and Economics and Program-
ming Departments, an issues paper is prepared for management review and
decision, and the project becomes part of the country's lending program. The
Projects Department then assumes responsibility for the project, and its
Projects Management Committee selects a project leader who prepares a project
profile. This document is the basis for carrying out the appraisal and
contains, among other things, the objectives, implementation schedule and a
critical path analysis for project preparation. In the past, CDB has not
given sufficient attention to the development of appropriate sectoral policies.
Management recognizes the need to develop these policies for important sectors,
and as part of the reorganization has more clearly defined the responsibility
for such work to be done by the Projects Department in the future. CDB has
agreed to develop sectoral policies in consultation with the Bank in all
sectors by April 30, 1980 (see also para. 5.48).
Project Appraisal
4.21      When a project is ready for appraisal, the Projects Management
Committee allocates additional staff with the required disciplines to make
up an appraisal team. After project preparation, projects are appraised
quickly and appraisal reports usually written within two months. After review
at the divisional and departmental level, the appraisal report is sent for
approval to the Loan Committee, composed of department heads, chief counsel
and the president.



- 22 -
4.22      Appraisal reports are now relatively well focussed and analytical.
Generally, the engineering, economics and financial analyses are sound but the
institutional aspects of projects are often not dealt with sufficiently. Some
projects have been viewed in isolation from the institutional framework in
which they were to be executed. The focus of appraisal reports would be
improved, if more information on the executing agencies and their capacity to
implement projects were included, as well as proposals for institutional
improvements. CDB should use its ample technical assistance resources to
recruit qualified staff for the implementing agencies and should include a
requirement to do this as a condition of lending. Likewise, appraisal reports
in some sectors would benefit from a more detailed description of the sector
and how the project relates to it. The establishment of clear sectoral
policies and priorities, in consultation with the Bank (para. 4.20) should
assist in this kind of analysis. Moreover, appraisal reports should include
realistic implementation schedules and define actions required by governments
and the executing agencies. CDB's management is aware of these shortcomings
and is taking steps to improve apraisal reports in the abovementioned aspects.
Project Implementation and Supervision
4.23      Project implementation work is shared between the Projects, Legal
and Finance Departments. The Legal Department attends to projects until
all conditions precedent to disbursement are satisfied. Though the time
between the return of appraisal mission and Board presentation is normally
much shorter than the Bank's, the difference is made up afterwards, with
long delays experienced between Board approval and loan effectiveness. At
one time, CDB presented projects to its Board before the loans had been
negotiated. This resulted in difficulties in negotiations and consequent
delays. Some loans were subsequently cancelled. CDB is now moving towards
the Bank's system of negotiating loans before Board presentation, but a Board
which meets only bi-monthly slows down loan processing. CDB has succeeded in
gradually reducing these delays and the average time for loan processing is
now reasonable.
4.24      The Projects Department is responsible for the construction
stage of projects and the Controller disburses on the advice of the former.
Projects under supervision are allocated to project officers taking into
account sectoral and geographic factors. They fill out standard super-
vision reports twice a year and when a supervision visit is made. All
reports are reviewed by the Loan Supervision Officer (who reports to the
Director of Projects) and emerging problems are focused on at monthly
meetings of the Loan Supervision Committee. The Committee is chaired by
the Vice President and General Counsel and made up of CDB's directors. On
the basis of decisions by the Committee, follow-up action is taken to deal
with specific aspects of each project. Prior to the reorganization, respon-
sibility for supervision was not clearly defined and reports were sometimes
superficial. Although a supervision manual is being prepared and procedures
tightened up, the responsibility for supervision still remains unclear.
Projects staff leave important actions to the Loan Supervision Officer and
the Committee. Responsibility for project supervision and for initiating



- 23 -
timely action to resolve project problems could better be the responsibility
of projects staff at the deputy director level. The Loan Supervision Officer
should have a review function. CDB's management is aware of this problem and
is reviewing the present supervision f'unction.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.25      CDB's policies and procedures for procurement financed from its own
funds, i.e., share capital and market borrowings, are modeled on the Bank,
but modified to allow for more flexibility when it deals with private sector
borrowers. International competitive bidding is required on goods contracts
above US$750,000 and work contracts above US$500,000. For works and goods
costing less than these amounts, contracts may be awarded on the basis of
letters of invitation to at least three suppliers in the territory where the
project is located and at least one outside supplier. In these cases where
contracts are financed with CDB's own funds, eligible bidders are normally
limited by its charter to members and those countries which contribute substan-
tially to its resources. When CDB uses another source of financing, it applies
the procurement guidelines of the lender or donor concerned. As part of the
first Bank loans, CDB permitted procurement from World Bank member countries
and Switzerland for contracts financed with Bank resources. This policy will
remain the same in this operation.  In the case of the EEC credit Bank guide-
lines would also be used, but bidding would be limited to EEC member countries
and IDA member countries that are eligible to receive Special Action Credits.
As before, procurement of civil works estimated to cost more than US$2 millon,
will be in accordance with Bank guidelines and require notification of local
representatives of Bank member countries and Switzerland and international
advertising. Civil works costing less than US$2 million but more than
US$500,000 would have the same procedures but require only local advertising
and notification of local representatives of Bank member countries. Procure-
ment of equipment costing more than US$100,000 would be in accordance with
Bank guidelines with regional as well as local advertising and notification to
representatives as aforementioned. Procurement of goods and services by
private borrowers and sub-borrowers of local DFCs would be in accordance with
CDB's guidelines which have recently been made more flexible to deal more
effectively with the private sector. Where contracts are financed jointly
with Bank and CDB resources, CDB will follow the above procurement procedures
for the entire contract. CDB's disbursement procedures are sound and are
diligently applied. It has laid down. clear procedures which require the
borrower to present evidence that approved investments have been made. Each
individual disbursement has to be approved by a project supervisor.
Accounting and Auditors
4.26      The CDB maintains its accounting records in current US dollars.
As prescribed in CDB's Charter, entirely separate accounts are kept for
ordinary operations and for each of CDB's special funds. The accounting work
undertaken by CDB staff is adequate. Since inception, Price Waterhouse & Co.
have been CDB's auditors. None of their reports has been qualified.



- 24 -
V. CDB's PAST OPERATIONS AND LENDING STRATEGY
CDB's Past Operations
5.01      From its inception in 1970 to 1978 CDB has approved 306 loans for
223 projects in 15 countries amounting to US$180.1 million, committed US$150.2
million and disbursed US$96.9 million (Table 5). CDB lends to its member
governments and private enterprises for a wide range of development activities
including: (i) agriculture, agroindustries and livestock development projects;
(ii) industrial estates, small scale industries, hotel and tourism facilities;
(iii) infrastructure projects (ports, highways, public utilities and housing);
(iv.) program loans; and (v) student loans. An analysis of CDB's past oper-
ations is provided below:
Table 5:  CDB's SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS (1970-78)
(US$ million)
OCR      VTF       SFR      Total
Approvals                     44.6     12.8      122.7      180.1
Commitments                   41.1     11.3       97.8      150.2
Disbursements                 25.4      7.9       63.6       96.9
Source: CDB
5.02      Operations by Type of Funding.  CDB's operations are divided into
three types: (i) ordinary operations; (ii) special operations; and (iii)
trust fund operations. Ordinary operations are at CDB's risk and are financed
from ordinary capital resources (OCR) which consist of share capital, retained
earnings and borrowed funds. Special operations are loans made at concessionary
rates (4% p.a.) to high priority projects mainly in LDCs. These operations
are financed from special fund resources (SFR) established by donor countries
at no risk to CDB. Trust fund operations are those managed by CDB on behalf of
donors for a fee; credit risks lie with the fund. At the present time, CDB
administers only one trust fund, the Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF), with total
resources of about US$25.0 million.
5.03      A summary of CDB's operations by type of funding is provided in
Table 6.  As of December 31, 1978, the lending composition by funding was as
follows:  OCR (24.8%), VTF (7.1%), and SFR (68.1%).  Until 1974, CDB main-
tained a relatively even balance between its ordinary and special operations
but during the last four years special operations have tended to predominate.
OCR operations accounted for about 43% of total operations in 1974 but de-
clined to only 18% in 1978. The shift in CDB's lending composition was due
to three main reasons: (i) the severe economic problems in the Caribbean
countries and particularly in Jamaica and Guyana, the two main borrowers
of OCR funds; (ii) the availability of large amounts of soft funds from



- 25 -
bilateral agencies and multilateral institutions, partly as a result of the
efforts made by the Caribbean Group (CG), which was created under Bank
leadership in 1978; and (iii) the setting up by the CG of the Caribbean
Development Facility (CDF) to finance the local cost of projects.
Table 6:  SUMMARY OF CDB OPERATIONS BY SOURCE OF FUND, 1970-78
(in US$ million)
Approvals        1970-74   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   Total           %
OCR                 15.6    10.2    0.9    6.7    2.4    8.8    44.6   24.8
Trust Funds           -        -     4.5    3.5    4.6    0.2    12.8    7.1
SFR                18.4    13.8   16.1   12.4   21.8   40.2   122.7   68.1
Total         34.0    24.0   21.5   22.6   28.8   49.2   180.1  100.0
Source: CDB
5.04       As a result of these developments CDB's cumulative OCR operations
amounted to only about one quarter of CDB's total operations by the end of
1978. However, CDB's lending composition over the next five years is likely
to return to its earlier, more even, pattern (para. 6.01).
5.05       Operations by MDCs, LDCs and Regional Projects.  Since its inception,
CDB has concentrated on providing financial and technical assistance to its
less developed member countries. As of December 31, 1978, CDB had approved
loans amounting to US$104.8 million or 58.2% of its total operations, in 192
projects in LDCs (Table 7). MDCs accounted for only 34.1% of loan approvals
by amount and 12% by number. The balance (7.7% of loan approvals) was for
regional projects.
Table 7: SUMMARY OF CDB OPERATIONS BY MDCs, LDCs AND
REGIONAL PROJECTS, 1970-78
No. of projects    %           Amount        %
(US$ million)
MDCs                          26           11.7         61.5       34.1
LDCs                         192           86.0        104.8       58.2
Regional projects              5            2.3         13.8        7.7
Total                  223          100.0        180.1       100.0
Source: CDB



- 26 -
5.06      An analysis of CDB's operations by funds (Table 8) clearly shows
that CDB has been predominantly the bank for the LDCs. By the end of 1978,
the LDCs accounted for 71.4% of total SFR operations. In contrast, MDCs
accounted for 76% of OCR operations. Most of the trust fund resources, which
carry terms similar to OCR operations, went to the MDCs.
Table 8: SUMMARY OF CDB OPERATIONS BY SOURCE OF FUND AND BENEFICIARY
1970-78
(in US$ million)
LDCs             MDCs &
(CARICOM only)      Other LDCs  1/        Total
No. of             No. of            No. of
Loans     $        Loans      $      Loans      $       %
Approvals
OCR                     52       10.7        20     33.9       72      44.6   24.8
Trust funds               6       2.5         6      10.3      12      12.8    7.1
SFR                    195       87.7        27     35.0      222    122.7   68.1
Total       253      100.9        53      79.2     306    180.1  100.0
No. of projects        176                   47               223
Source: CDB
1/   British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos Islands.
5.07      CDB used to allocate its soft resources primarily on country grounds,
and no more than 30% of SFR resources could be allocated to MDCs.  In the
past, the MDCs voluntarily agreed to refrain from borrowing soft funds on the
grounds that they are economically better off. However, this is no longer
true due to the adverse economic situation in Guyana and Jamaica. Since there
are more "poor" people in MDCs than the combined population of the LDCs, CDB's
policy of allocating soft funds has become more flexible. In view of the
indications of significant support for the region of funds on concessionary
terms expressed by the donor countries of the CG, the 30% limit has been
lifted at least temporarily and will be reviewed as conditions warrant.
Country lending programs are presently related to population as adjusted
for per capita income and absorptive capacity. OCR lending depends on the
availability of soft funds and the credit worthiness of borrowing countries.
Usually CDB tries to use OCR funds to finance self liquidating projects.
5.08      Regional Projects.  Up to the end of 1978, CDB had made loans
amounting to US$13.8 million for five regional projects. These are loans to
a regional airline for LDCs (LIAT), a shipping company (WISCO), and a regional



- 27 -
corn and soya bean project. Mainly because of the lack of cooperation among
CDB's member countries, the above projects have not been successful. CDB's
management is fully cognizant of the problems it faces in lending for regional
projects and as a result has deciud, tLlhat it may have * concentrate its
efforts on financing sound national projects which have regional impact.
CDB's Sectoral Operations
5.09      CDB has concentrated its operations in three major sectors:  agricul-
ture (23.9%); infrastructure (45.6%); and industry and tourism (20.5%). In
addition, it had made program loans (10%) under the CDF. Table 9 provides
a sectoral breakdown of CDB's total operations.
Table 9:  SUMMARY OF CDB OPERATIONS BY SECTOR, 1970-78
(in US$ million)
LDCs            MDCs &
(CARICOM only)    Other LDCs         Total
No.     $        No.      $      No.      $        %
Approvals
Agriculture                  82      19.6     16      22.4    98      43.0      23.9
Infrastructure               83     59.0      13      23.1    96      82.1      45.6
Indust., tourism &
student loans              88     22.1      15      14.9   103      37.0 1/  20.5
Program loans                 -         -      9      18.0     9      18.0      10.0
Total            253    100.7      53      79.4   306    180.1    100.0
Source: CDB
1/   US$2.6 million in student loans.
5.10      The sectoral composition of CDB's past lending reflects CDB's
priority of assisting LDCs. As of December 31, 1978, CDB's sectoral compo-
sition in LDCs was as follows: (i) infrastructure (58.7%); (ii) industry
and tourism (21.9%); and (iii) agriculture (19.4%). Since most LDCs lack
basic infrastructure and the investment opportunities in the productive
sector are limited, CDB lends mainly for infrastructure. The pattern of
lending in most LDCs is likely to change very gradually. However, CDB is
making a concerted effort to increase its lending in productive sectors in
the LDCs. CDB's pattern of lending in the MDCs, however, showed a different
composition: (i) agriculture (28.2%); (ii) infrastructure (29.2%);
(iii) industry and tourism (20.0%); and (iv) program loans (22.7%) 1/. Most
1/ These program loans were made availale by CDB to MDCs from CDF for
financing local costs.



- 28 -
of CDB's lending to the MDCs has been conducted through DFCs which lend to
private borrowers for projects in productive sectors (Annex 6). CDB's future
lending in MDCs will continue to focus on the productive sectors and on
infrastructure projects that directly support the productive sectors.
Infrastructure Operations
5.11      CDB's past infrastructure operations are shown in Table 10.  They
accounted for 45.6% of CDB's operations by amount and 31.4% by number of
approved loans. About 72% of infrastructure projects were for the LDCs,
which have traditionally lacked basic infrastructure such as ports.
5.12      Loans totalling US$27.7 million equivalent were approved for port
projects in Belize, Dominica, St. Kitts, St. Lucia, Montserrat and the
Cayman Islands. The second largest category in CDB's infrastructure lending
is for feeder roads, which are generally closely related to CDB's agricul-
tural projects. CDB's experience in lending for infrastructure projects
such as ports has been poor because of: (i) the small size of the projects
and resulting lack of economies of scale; (ii) the difficulty in attracting
good contractors; and (iii) the limited capacity of its borrowers, particularly
in the LDCs, to execute and operate these projects. To overcome this problem,
CDB has begun providing technical assistance to the project implementing
agencies, and CDB's loan conditions now require that the borrowing agencies
be adequately staffed.
5.13      CDB's lending for public utilities (water supply and power) has been
limited and has amounted to only about 14% of its infrastructure lending. In
the future, CDB plans to increase lending in this area significantly to provide
a good base for industrial development. With the assistance of the Bank,
arrangements have been made for the Pan American Health Organization to carry
out a water supply sector study in November 1979 with a view to identifying
new projects for CDB and any organizational shortcomings among the water
supply agencies. CDB plans to use its technical assistance fund to hire
consultants to build up these institutions.
5.14      In the power sector, the Bank plans to assist CDB in strengthening
its appraisal capacity. CDB staff is expected to participate in the evalua-
tion of the Bank power project in Barbados. Also, CDB's infrastructure staff
will be joining other Bank power sector missions.
5.15      In the transport sector, CDB has stayed away from financing road
maintenance projects, which are probably most needed in the Caribbean, given
the existence of a good but badly maintained basic road network in most
countries. In the future, CDB plans to get more involved in road maintenance
projects and will be working closely with other lenders. Bank transportation
staff will assist CDB in this area.



- 29 -
Table 10: CDB's INFRASTRUCTURE LENDING OPERATIONS (1970-78)
(in US$ million)
Amount         %
Indirect lending through DFCs
Housing (Mortgage Finance)                          5.9           7.2
Direct lending
Ports                                27.7                        33.4
Feeder Roads                         12.2                        14.9
Housing (other than mortgage
finance)                            9.3                        11.3
Water Supply                          6.8                         8.3
Sea Transport                         6.1                         7.4
Air Transport                         5.9                         7.2
Electricity                           5.2                         6.3
Roads and Bridges                     1.9                         2.3
Other                                 1.1                         1.3
Subtotal                                        76.2          92.8
Total                                           82.1         100.0
Source: CDB
Agriculture Operations
5.16      Agricultural projects (Annex 2) accounted for 32% of the total
number of approved loans and 24% of the total amount of loans approved to year
end 1978 1/. A breakdown of CDB's agricultural lending is provided in Table
11. About 61% of CDB's operations in this sector are channelled through
DFCs (see para. 5.22).
1/   Excluding feeder roads.



- 30 -
Table 11: CDB's AGRICULTURAL LENDING OPERATIONS (1970-78)
(in US$ million)
Amount         %
Indirect lending through DFCs
Agriculture credits                                     26.3          61.3
Direct Loans
Banana                               7.2
Livestock                            3.6
Marketing                            2.1
Food processing                      1.0
Estate and farms development         0.7
Sugar                                0.5
Others                               1.5                16.6          38.7
Total                                           42.9         100.0
5.17       CDB's main agricultural lending strategy continues to be
directed toward increasing production for export and increased local
consumption, and stabilizing agriculture by improving the prosperity of
the smaller farmers who operate the great majority of farms.
5.18       Direct lending operations.  Most direct lending in the sector
is for livestock, estate and farm development (including sugar and bananas),
marketing and processing. Although the demand for direct lending in the
private sector showed some increase in 1977, it declined in 1978. This is
in part due to the lack of vigorous promotion and inadequate security
available to potential borrowers. CDB recognizes this problem and has
taken action to increase its private sector lending for agriculture.
5.19       Considering the potential, livestock development projects have not
come forward very rapidly. CDB is aware of this and since 1976 has paid
special attention to such projects. In 1977 two projects were approved,
while three more are in preparation and are likely to be presented for approval
in 1979. There is relatively good potential for small scale development by
individual small farmers, particularly in the LDCs, but significant progress
must be coupled with improvements in the capability and expertise within the
Ministries of Agriculture and DFCs.



- 31 -
5.20      CDB has long recognized the problems of marketing, particularly
for local distribution of food and other crops, but new projects tO improve
marketing facilities have not been developed since 1976 when a major loan was
approved for modernizing marketing facilities and operations in Barbados.
CDB is actively pursuing the subject and projects to improve marketing
facilities in Belize and Grenada are in preparation for approval in 1980.
5.21      Approvals for processing agroindustrial projects were only $1.0
million to the end of 1978, and no new projects were approved during the year.
A study has been made of prospects in the CARICOM LDCs. With increased
staff, greater progress in the sector is expected in future, and a few projects
may be approved in 1979. Although small fishing boats have been financed
under the Farm Improvement Credit (FIC) (see Annex 2), CDB has not yet approved
a direct fisheries project. It is shifting its emphasis away from considera-
tion of regional projects to the preparation and appraisal of national projects
that could contribute to meeting regional food requirements.
5.22      Indirect lending through DFCs.  CDB's agricultural loans to small
and medium private borrowers are channelled through DFCs. For these opera-
tions the minimum loan size of US$100,000 for CDB direct lending does not
apply and loans may be for any amount within each DFC's own lending criteria.
Loans may be made for crop, livestock and land development, bee keeping,
fishing, farm machinery, permanent pasture and tree crops, irrigation and
drainage, erosion control, farm buildings and the like. They may not be
made to purchase land or repay old debts. CDB's agricultural credits are
carried out under two major schemes: the FIC scheme, and the Agricultural
Production Credit (APC) scheme (for details of these schemes see Annex 2).
5.23      To assist DFCs in implementing the scheme, CDB has placed a
Farm Improvement Officer (FIO) in each DFC, responsible for identification,
preparation, appraisal and supervision of individual loans. FIOs also
assist DFC managements in their overall operations, so contributing to their
institutional development. This contribution has not yet been fully effec-
tive because many DFCs are unable to provide adequate counterparts, and
FIOs are directly responsible to CDB although nominally placed under DFC
management.
5.24      Prospects.  CDB's overall objectives for agricultural lending in
the region are very similar to those of the Bank Group. These include:
(i) encouragement of production of commodities for which each territory
is well suited or for which they have a natural advantage and for which
there are reasonable marketing opportunities; (ii) emphasis on intensifying
land use systems and improving productivity, particularly by small farmers;
and (iii) encouragement of improvement in the agricultural support services,
which at present are extremely poor.



- 32 -
5.25      While attempting to meet these objectives both CDB and the Bank
Group recognize that for ecological, technical and political reasons good
projects are hard to find and even harder to implement. As brought out in
Chapter III, the constraints to agricultural development are formidable,
and it would be unrealistic to expect rapid expansion in the near future,
even if a concerted effort could be mounted. Although self-sufficiency
in food production in the region is currently an objective of CARICOM, it
should not be followed blindly at the expense of better use of the land for
other more profitable crops. Because experience to date has shown that
prospects for regional cooperation in agriculture are not very encouraging,
the emphasis should be on national rather than regional projects, parti-
cularly for food production.
5.26      Better marketing facilities and increased crop yields are the
major requirements for improving the prosperity of the smaller farmers,
particularly in the LDCs. Thus, projects that incorporate better agricul-
tural support services (in particular marketing and extension), improved
husbandry, higher yielding seeds, and more timely availability of seasonal
credit, fertilizer, pesticides and seeds should be encouraged. In this
field CDB's APC scheme is of particular importance.
5.27      Commercial banks are the most important financial institutions
in mobilizing and allocating resources in the region (Chapter III). They have
traditionally played a key role in the development of the agricultural export
sectors and the import trade but have only recently become involved in the
financing of food crops for domestic production. In June 1979, CDB's manage-
ment approved a proposal for increasing their participation in the financing
of small farmers and small scale enterprises (SSE's). The proposal allows
for the participation in certain islands by commercial banks on an experimental
basis. This is a step in the right direction.
Industrial and Tourism Operations
5.28      As of December 31, 1978, CDB had approved loans for industrial and
tourism projects amounting to US$34.4 million, or about 19% of its total opera-
tions (Table 12). CDB had been mainly financing SSEs through the DFCs (43% of
its total operations) both in the MDCs and LDCs. To provide infrastructure
for the SSEs, CDB has provided loans amounting to US$11.0 million to govern-
ments of the LDCs and Barbados to build industrial estates.



- 33 -
Table 12: CDB's INDUSTRIAL AND TOURISM LENDING OPERATIONS
(1970-78)
Amount             %
Indirect Loans through DFCs
Industrial credits              10.4
Small Scale Industry Credits   4.4           14.8           43.0
Direct Lending
Industrial estates              11.0
Footwear                         0.4
Plastic manufacturing            0.4
Hotels                           2.3
Others                           2.5         19.6           57.0
Total                            34.4           100.0
5.29      Industry.  CDB has not been as successful in lending for industry
as it had expected.  This is due to both external factors, which are beyond
CDB's control, and CDB's policies. The demand for industrial and tourism
credits from private investors in the Caribbean has been low during recent
years, due to the economic problems faced by most countries and the uncertain
political climate in some of the islands. Foreign investors have stayed away
from the Caribbean countries except for Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago, St. Lucia
and Belize, which have more stable economic and political climates.
5.30      It has been CDB's policy to lend to private investors in the MDCs
through DFCs (Barbados Development Bank, Guyana Agriculture and Industrial
Bank, and Jamaica Development Bank) and not to compete with them. As a
result, CDB has paid little attention to financing large projects promoted by
private investors in the MDCs. In the LDCs, CDB has channelled credits for
SSEs through the DFCs and left the role of promoting private investment to the
Caribbean Investment Corporation (CIC), a now inactive regional organization
which was set up particularly to promote investments in the LDCs and to provide
equity funds. Up until recently, it was CDB's policy to promote and finance
industrial and tourism projects, which are either owned or effectively con-
trolled by Caribbean citizens, so foreign investors were generally excluded.
This policy has been modified to allow control by foreign investors (i) if a
share of the equity considered reasonable by CDB is held by or offerred to
nationals of Commonwealth Caribbean countries with an arrangement for ensuring
that control of the company becomes localized on the basis of on phased
program acceptable to CDB; (ii) or when there is a substantial use of local
raw materials and/or transfer of technology and skills to the region to a
significant extent.



- 34 -
5.31      CDB itself concentrated on identifying and promoting regional
industrial projects, such as pulp and paper, cement and steel. CDB directed
its staff resources in the industry division to work on these regional project
ideas, which did not materialize.
5.32      To keep the spirit of the CARICOM and to adhere to the industrial
allocation scheme, CDB assisted LDC governments in identifying and preparing
the industrial projects allocated to them. However, the political and economic
climate in most LDCs did not engender investor confidence so few projects were
developed.
5.33      The experience to date shows that CDB's strategy in industry has
not been an optimal one. In the MDCs, DFCs in Guyana and Jamaica are facing
severe financial problems due to mismanagement and economic problems. As a
result, they have not been effective in promoting and financing viable
private projects. In the LDCs, CIC is now inactive and will be wound up
soon. Most DFCs in the LDCs are too small, undercapitalized, poorly managed,
and have a low financial spread due to their low interest rates (Annex 6).
It is clear that it will be difficult for CDB to significantly increase
industrial lending in the region, unless it adopts a more pragmatic
strategy. This is particularly important given the recent improvement in
the economic and investment climates in the Caribbean, particularly in the
LDCs, such as Antigua, Belize, and St. Lucia.
5.34      CDB's management is cognizant of its mixed performance in the
industrial sector. Unlike the World Bank, CDB can lend directly to private
borrowers without a government guarantee. Thus, it can play both the role
of the World Bank and that of the International Finance Corporation. CDB's
management has taken a number of actions to accelerate its industrial lending.
These include: (i) establishment of a DFC section in the Industry and Tourism
Division with an increase in staff; (ii) a program to strengthen DFCs in the
LDCs by devising a specific action plan for each DFC as a condition of lending;
and (iii) the establishment of a technology information unit to provide
information to potential investors. CDB has also made a decision to channel
credit to SSEs in some LDCs 1/ through the commercial banking system with
funds provided by a recent USAID loan of US$10.0 million.
5.35      While the above actions would marginally increase CDB's operations
and improve the quality of its portfolio, CDB will not be able to make a
significant impact. For CDB to be successful, it will need to aggressively
promote private investments in both the MDCs and LDCs. In the MDCs, it could
continue to onlend to DFCs but should focus its attention on larger private
projects and cofinancing projects with either DFCs or commercial banks.
Since CDB would provide longer term finance, it would be attractive for
commercial banks to work with CDB. In the LDCs, CDB could fill the role of
CIC. Also, CDB should consider financing projects which are export oriented
and generate significant employment.
1/   Turks and Caicos, Cayman and British Virgin Islands.



- 35 -
5.36      CDB might be more effective if it engaged private sector oriented
staff in its Industry and Tourism Division who are more experienced in dealing
with private investors (including foreign investors) and packaging projects
using the methods discussed in para 5.35. CDB's management has taken steps
to make these policies more flexible as they relate to the private sector.
In addition, the work of the task force on the private sector established at
the June 1979 meeting of the CG would be taken into account by CDB (para.
2.13), when it becomes available.
5.37      Tourism.  CDB's direct lending to tourism has been marginal, and
amounted to only US$4.3 million or about 2.5% of total lending of US$180.0
million. This was partly due to the difficult tourism market situation
existing since 1974 and the low priority given by CDB's management to financing
tourism projects promoted by non-Caribbean citizens. Also, some of CDB's
financial policies toward the tourism sector appear to have been restrictive
and may have affected lending to tourism.
5.38      Given the importance of the tourism sector to many of the economies
of the Caribbean islands, particularly the LDCs, CDB should take a more active
role in promoting tourism projects and making necessary policy changes that
would enable it to increase direct lending to tourism and have a more meaningful
impact on the sector. CDB has taken a first step in this respect by increasing
its percentage of financing possible for private tourism projects and lengthening
the repayment periods available on loans to the sector. In reassessing its
policies, CDB could also consider giving priority to assisting its member
countries in developing a more rational regional investment program that would
take into account both the natural attractions of the different islands, as
well as investments already made in infrastructure, agriculture, etc., so that
economic returns could be maximized and linkages increased.
5.39      Once such an investment program is developed, there are several
ways CDB could get involved in financing it. With respect to hotels only,
CDB could be the major source of finance for the smaller projects; for larger
projects, CDB could play the role of catalyst in promoting and packaging them,
as well as cofinancing such projects with other institutions.
Experience Under the First Project
5.40      At the time of the appraisal of the first Bank loans in 1975,
CDB was determined by the Bank to be a high quality development bank. Because
of this favorable assessment and CDB's role as an international development
institution rather than a local development finance company, the Bank waived
the normal free-limit requirement and gave CDB a free hand to finance projects
in practically all sectors. CDB continues to merit the waiving of the free
limit requirement, and thus it is being continued for the second Bank loan
(para 8.04). The Bank agreed to work closely with CDB to provide assistance
on a project-by-project basis and the UNDP technical assistance project was
extended for two years with CDB acting as its own executing agency. The Bank
loans were made under a relatively stable economic and political climate in
the Caribbean and loan 1233-CRG (US$17.0 million) was expected to be fully
committed by March 31, 1978 and the Third Window loan 1234-CRG (US$3.0 million)
by March 31, 1979.



- 36 -
5.41      Project implementation proceeded well until late 1976 when the
following events seriously affected CDB's operations: (i) because of the
economic problems in Jamaica and Guyana, CDB had to practically halt
lending to its main borrowers of hard funds; (ii) lack of local funds due
to the region's economic problems delayed projects in some of the other
islands; (iii) a shift in CDB's emphasis to more difficult regional projects
(which in many cases did not materialize) in an attempt to sustain the
regional integration movement; (iv) the Caribbean Group, organized to restore
economic stability to the region, succeeded in mobilizing a large amount of
soft resources for the Caribbean, which resulted in a significant increase in
CDB's Special Operations as opposed to its ordinary Capital Resource lending,
through which the Bank loans were channeled; (v) the limited absorptive
capacity of the LDCs, only now being increased by the Caribbean Group's project
identification efforts, slowed the use of Third Window funds; (vi) substantial
delays were encountered in arranging Government guarantees especially in the
case of the UK Associate States and regional projects which resulted in
differences between the Bank and CDB over the commitments fee which further
delayed processing of projects using Bank funds.
5.42      Despite these problems the Bank loan of US$17.0 million (1233-CRG)
was fully committed only a little more than a year behind schedule (see
Annex 12). Subloans will finance nine projects in six countries; four are
to DFCs, three are for transportation projects and one each is for tourism
and industrial estates. Where applicable, expected economic rates of return
ranged from 10% for a tourism project to 65% for a cruiseship pier. As of
July 1, 1979 the Third Window loan was also fully committed for four projects
in Antigua, St. Kitts, St. Lucia and Montserrat. The subloans will finance
projects in electricity generation, ports, sugar development and mortgage
finance with anticipated adequate economic rates of return.
CDB's Lending Strategy
5.43      In the past, CDB's lending program was determined largely on an
ad hoc basis. This was due to a number of reasons including: (i) the absence
of meaningful investment programs in most of CDB's borrowing countries,
particularly the LDCs; and (ii) CDB's organizational structure, which did not
clearly allocate responsibility for identifying projects.
5.44      During 1978 and 1979 CDB's management took a number of actions
including changing its organizational structure to improve the situation.
CDB's new organizational structure was approved by its Board of Directors in
December 1978 and was implemented in January 1979 (see para. 4.13).
5.45      Under the present structure, the Economics and Programming Division
(EAP) is responsible for preparing a five-year master lending program in
collaboration with the Projects Department. The master lending program
is revised annually. In addition to the master plan, the EAP prepares an
18-month lending program, which is updated every two months during CDB's
bi-monthly Board meetings. CDB's management has placed heavy emphasis
on its lending program and is fully cognizant that it will only work well
if the operating divisions are fully involved in the preparation of the
plan. Accordingly, it has established a planning procedure which requires



-37 -
direct inputs from each projects division. Also, CDB has attempted to relate
its lending program to manpower requirements in a more precise manner.
5.46      CDB's future lending program should be a more realistic one since
it will be supported by its Projects Divisions and by extensive economic work
already done by the Bank and the CG. Also, the absorptive capacity of CDB's
clients should improve materially due to the massive efforts made by the
international community. The Bank should continue to work closely with CDB's
EAP in refining its programming techniques and finding ways to ensure that CDB
develops a good pipeline of projects and is able to meet its lending targets.
The recent recruitment (para 4.15) of two economists for EAP should assist in
this effort.
5.47      Historically, because of the exhortation in its Charter to pay
special regard to the needs of the LDCs, CDB has concentrated its lending
(62%) in its LDC member countries (Chapter V). Moreover, it has made 68%
of its loans with "soft" funds and this has meant it has made many small
loans. CDB's projected operations (Chapter VI) indicate that emphasis
will shift towards a more even balance between lending with soft resources and
lending on conventional terms. This implies a greater total amount of lending
to the MDCs, and greater emphasis on lending in productive sectors of industry,
tourism and agriculture. Because of these shifts to greater MDC lending and
emphasis on productive sectors, the average size of projects financed, and
loans made, by CDB should increase thereby economizing on the use of staff
resources per dollar lent. CDB will, as a result, be able to expand its staff
to more properly cover the region's needs, although it will still have to rely
on technical assistance financing of key staff because of its relatively modest
salary structure.
5.48      As explained in para. 4.20, CDB is in the process of developing
clearer sectoral policies. In order to aid CDB in developing these policies and
carrying them out in the future, the Bank and CDB discussed the latter's sectoral
lending policies and the Bank received assurances that CDB will:
(i)  give priority to projects in the productive sectors of
agriculture, industry and tourism and such infrastructure
projects that directly support these sectors, taking into
account among other considerations the conclusions reached
by the CG in its periodic examination of the economic
situation and prospects of CDB's member countries;
(ii)  each year send its draft lending program for the forthcoming
year or longer period if available, to the Bank for information
as soon as it is prepared; and
(iii)  prepare in consultation with the Bank sectoral policy papers
by April 30, 1980.



- 38 -
VI. PROSPECTS
CDB's Projected Operations
6.01      Operations by type of fund.  CDB's lending program for the next
five years (1979-83) is provided in Table 13. CDB's lending program is
divided into five sub-categories: (i) ordinary capital operations;
(ii) special fund operations; (iii) the Caribbean Development Facility;
(iv) IDA and EEC financed projects; and (v) trust fund operations.
Table 13: CDB's PROJECTED LENDING PROGRAMS (1979-83)
(in US$ million)
1974-                                       1979-83
78   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983    Total    %
Ordinary Capital Operations   28.1  33.0   38.0   42.0   46.0   53.0    212.0   48.6
Special Fund Operations
Regular                       86.0  23.0   25.0   28.0   31.0   35.0    142.0   32.6
Caribbean Development
Facility                    18.0  17.0   17.0    8.0        -      -      42.0    9.7
IDA and EEC Credits              -     -    4.0    4.0    4.0    3.0        15.0    3.4
Trust Fund Operations           12.8   3.0    4.0    5.0    6.0    7.0        25.0    5.5
Total                    144.9  76.0   88.0   87.0   87.0   98.0    436.0  100.0
Over the next five years, CDB expects to lend US$436.0 million or about US$87.0
million per year compared with its total operations of US$144.9 million or
US$29.0 million p.a. during 1974-78. The composition of the proposed lending
program will be as follows: ordinary capital operations (48.6%); IDA financed
projects (3.4%); special fund operations (32.6%); Caribbean Development
Facility (9.7%); and trust fund operations (5.7%). As of December 31, 1978,
CDB's special fund operations accounted for 68% of its cumulative approvals of
US$180.0 million. Clearly, the program shows a shift in CDB's lending program
toward increasing OCR operations. This is due to the overall improvement in
demand for OCR funds and CDB's management's conscious decision to maintain a
good balance between its banking operations (OCR) and aid coordinating func-
tions (SFR).
6.02      Operations by Sector.  CDB's global projections, on which the
forecasts are based, show little change in the sectoral composition of total
lending.  However, forecasts for OCR and projects in CDB's pipeline show a
significant shift in lending toward productive sectors of industry, tourism



- 39 -
and agriculture. This is in accordance with policies for the region expressed
at the recent meeting of the CG in June 1979 that emphasis must be placed on
solving the region's balance of payments and unemployment problems through
(inter alia) the development of the productive sectors and export in@u.-.
6.03      CDB plans to achieve its lending targets by funds and sectoxs
significantly increasing its operations in the MDCs. Also, it plans to
make more direct loans rather than lending through DFCs for private projects
and fill the vacuum created by the inactive CIC.
6.04      CDB's proposed lending program appears to be ambitious when compared
to an average annual lending level of only US$29.4 million achieved during
1974-78. However, CDB's operations during the 1974-78 period do not represent
its lending potential in the Caribbean. In 1978, CDB's total lending opera-
tions amounted to US$49.1 million. During the 1974-78 period, the region
faced a severe balance of payment problem caused by the increase in oil prices
and adverse investment and political climates. The CG, which was formed in
1978 to tackle the economic problems, particularly the balance of payments,
has been making significant progress in assisting the Caribbean countries.
Most countries in the region experienced real growth in 1978 and are embarking
again on new investment programs. Thus, CDB's lending program appears to be
attainable. However, since the region may face unforeseen economic difficul-
ties, if oil prices continue to rise at a rapid rate, CDB's lending in the
latter part of the forecast period may be less than expected. CDB's large
pipeline of projects indicates that a high level of lending will be maintained
in the next two or three years.
Ordinary Capital Operations
6.05      During the 1979-83 period, CDB plans to lend US$212.0 million from
its ordinary capital resources (OCR) or an average of US$42.4 million per year
compared with an average of about US$6.0 million during the 1974-78 period.
In 1979 CDB expects to lend US$33.0 million and US$38.0 million in 1980.
For the remaining period, CDB expects an increase in lending of 10% p.a.
or an increase of 3% in real terms, which is reasonable. CDB's OCR lending
is attainable due to a number of reasons. Firstly, the Caribbean region
is recovering from the economic recession of 1973-76 as discussed in para.
6.04 above. Secondly, as of June 1, 1979, CDB had a pipeline of 23 projects
amounting to US$70.0 million (see Annex 12). Most of these projects are firm
and ready to be presented to the Board during 1979 and 1980. Thirdly, CDB now
has a more effective organizational structure and has already significantly
increased its staff to carry out the proposed lending program (see paras.
4.15-16). Finally, CDB is expanding its operations from a very small base and
therefore the level of operations during the past years does not represent its
real potential.



- 40 -
6.06      CDB would need about US$113.0 million to finance its projected level
of OCR operations through 1981. Taking into consideration CDB's existing
resources available for new approvals of US$19.4 million (see Annex 13), new
equity subscription (US$12.0 million) and expected internally generated funds
(US$13.0 million), there will be a remaining gap of about US$69.1 million
(see Table 14):
Table 14: CDB's PROJECTED RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS
Ordinary Capital Resources
(in US$ million)
1979     1980      1981     Total
Requirements
New loan approvals - regular                33.0     38.0      42.0      113.0
Debt repayment                                 -         -      0.2        0.2
Total                                    33.0     38.0      42.2      113.2
Financing Plan
Available for new approvals                 19.4         -        -       19.4
New equity                                   4.0       4.0      4.0       12.0
Internally generated funds                   3.8      3.9       5.0       12.7
Total                                   27.2       7.9       9.0       44.1
Cumulative resources surplus (gap)          (5.8)   (35.9)   (69.1)    (69.1)



- 41 -
6.07      CDB's proposed financing plan is provided in Table 15 below:
Table 15: CDB's PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
Ordinary Capital Operations (1979-81)
(US$ million)
Remaining financing gap                     (69.1)
IDB (1980)                                   10.0
T.T. bond issue                              10.0
Market borrowings                            26.1
Remaining gap                                23.0
World Bank loan (1979)                       23.0
CDB expects to fill the gap of US$69.1 million with, inter alia, the proposed
Bank loan of US$23.0 million in 1979 and an IDB loan of US$10.0 million in
1980. Due to an improvement in capital market conditions in Trinidad, CDB
also plans to borrow US$10 million from this source by the end of 1979.
This will leave a gap of about US$26.0 million which CDB expects to borrow in
the US or Venezuelan capital markets some time in late 1980 or early 1981 when
ever market conditions are more favorable. If market conditions continue to
be unfavorable CDB should finance its operations, at least partially, by
reducing its liquidity as is explained in para. 7.10. Also, the Bank should
be willing to consider another loan to CDB in 1981 if CDB has difficulty
arranging satisfactory borrowing from other sources.
Special Fund Resources
6.08      CDB's projected lending program for special fund operations over
the next three years (1979-81) and the proposed financing plan is summarized
below (Table 16).



- 42 -
Table 16: CDB's PROJECTED RESOURCES REQUIREMENTS
Special Fund Resources
(US$ million)
1979     1980   1981   Total
Requirements
New approvals - regular                      23.0      25.0   28.0   76.0
- IDA and EEC                    -       4.0    4.0    8.0
- Caribbean Development
Facility                  17.0      17.0    8.0   42.0
40.0     46.0   40.0  126.0
Financing plans
Available resources 1/                       35.5        -       -    35.5
Loan collections                               1.8      1.8    1.8    5.4
New pledges for SDF 2/                          -      36.3      -    36.3
USAID                                        10.0      15.0      -    25.0
Trinidad and Tobago                            -        5.0     -      5.0
Caribbean Development Facility (US)          20.0      20.0     -    40.0
IDA and EEC                                     -       4.0    4.0    8.0
Total sources                                67.3      82.1     -   155.2
Resource surplus (gap)                       27.3      36.1   (34.2)   -
Cumulative                                   27.3      63.4    29.2  29.2
1/   See Annex 14.
2/   UK, Canada, Venezuela, and other member countries of CDB.
6.09      Over the next three years (1979-81), CDB plans to lend about US$76.0
million from its special fund resources, which are loans on concessionary
terms. It also expects to lend some US$42.0 million of funds provided by
the US for the CDF which provides local cost financing by way of program
loans. The IDA and EEC funds (US$8 million) would offer CDB an opportunity
to provide LDCs with financing at terms substantially more concessionary than
those from these other sources. 1/ Taking into consideration CDB's existing
soft resources (US$35.5 million), new pledges from its Part I member countries
(US$36.3 million), expected soft loans from USAID and Trinidad (US$30.0
million), and loan collections (US$5.4 million), CDB would have adequate soft
fund resources to carry out its lending operations.
1/   4% p.a. for up to 25 years including a grace period of five years;
financing of up to 90% of project costs.



- 43 -
VII. FINANCIAL POSITION, PROJECTED FINANCIAL
RESULTS AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS
Ordinary Capital Operations
7.01      Financial position and past financial results.  CDB's comparative
balance sheets and profit and loss statements for the past five years (1974-78)
are shown in Annex 15. As of December 31, 1978, CDB had assets amounting to
US$62.9 million consisting of liquid funds (49%), loans (37%), and other
assets (14%) 1/. These were financed by equity and reserves (70%), and bor-
rowed funds (30%). CDB's assets increased at an annual rate of about 21%
during the 1974-78 period. However, CDB's OCR operations did not grow as
much during the 1976-78 period due to the economic difficulties faced by the
Caribbean region. CDB financed its ordinary operations almost entirely
from its capital until 1976.
7.02      As of December 31, 1978, CDB had contracted four loans amounting to
US$39.3 million as follows: World Bank (US$20.0 million); European Invest-
ment Bank (US$4.1 million); Trinidad and Tobago bond issue (US$5.0 million);
and Central Bank bonds (US$10.2 million). CDB's total debt is very low and
much below its current borrowing capacity of US$100.0 million. CDB's Board
of Governors has limited CDB's total borrowing power to the sum of callable
capital of Canada, UK and Trinidad and Tobago. In April 1979, the callable
capital of Venezuela was also included. The callable capital of the four
abovementioned countries in current US dollars is as follows: Canada (US$32.3
million); UK (US$32.3 million); Trinidad and Tobago (US$24.8 million); and
Venezuela (US$10.6 million).
7.03      In 1978, CDB earned US$1.7 million, or about 4% on its equity compared
with US$2.3 million or 6% in 1977. The decline was due to an exchange loss of
about US$400,000 and a lower return on investment income (6% in 1978 compared
with 10.1% in 1977). CDB's profit in 1978 would have been reduced by at least
30% had it allocated administrative expenses to OCR on a more equitable basis.
In fact, CDB allocated only US$193,000 to OCR operations which had assets of
US$63.0 million and allocated US$1.8 million to SFR operations which had
assets of US$97.0 million. The present method of allocating costs based on
the number of lending operations is inappropriate and needs to be replaced.
In the past, CDB did not have a good cost accounting system but is in the
process of establishing one. In the future, CDB plans to allocate costs on
the basis of actual staff time spent on project and other activities.
7.04      CDB's low profitability is mainly due to its interest rate and liqui-
dity policies, and the small size of its average operation (about US$500,000).
In the past, CDB's lending rates were very low. It made a number of loans
below its borrowing costs and allocated no opportunity cost to its capital.
Since CDB practically had no financial costs and a significant share of its
administrative expenses were financed by a UNDP project, it was possible to
maintain low lending rates. However, in 1977 the Bank assisted CDB in making
computer based financial projections which demonstrated that it would be
1/   These assets are mainly receivables from CDB's member countries.



- 44 -
difficult for CDB to remain financially viable in the long run unless it
adopted a more rational interest rate policy. Consequently, CDB's Board of
Directors approved new lending rates in 1978 which are shown in Table 17
below. These rates are in line with market conditions in the Caribbean and at
present it would be difficult for CDB to further increase its rates and remain
competitive.
Table 17: CDB INTEREST RATES (p.a.)
June 1975   Jan. 1979-present
Government (infrastructure and public
utilities)                                       8.5%             9.0%
Government (DFCs)                                  7.5%             8.5%
Productive enterprises (agriculture)               9.0%             9.5%
Productive enterprises (industry/tourism)         10.0%            10.5%
7.05      Since about 40% of CDB's lending in the past was carried out through
DFCs and there is generally a long lag between loan approval and disbursement,
the impact of the new interest rate policy will not have a significant impact
on CDB's spread and profitability until 1981 (see para. 7.10).
Liquidity Policy
7.06      CDB has thus far followed a conservative liquidity policy of keeping
liquid assets equal to two years projected disbursements. However, CDB expects
that about 60% of future disbursements will be funded from credit lines with
international development banks. CDB's management feels that disbursements
from these credit lines should not be included within the liquidity require-
ments, as they represent secured sources of financing. Because the maintenance
of liquidity usually carries a cost to it, CDB intends to reduce the present
level, which is even in excess of the old policy, as circumstances permit
(para 7.10). This action should increase profitability without incurring
undue risk.
OCR Loan Portfolio
7.07      As of December 31, 1978 about 11% of loans disbursed from OCR
resources were made to private enterprises. Almost all of these loans
were approved during the period 1972-74, when CDB was making a special
effort to lend to the private sector. With the exception of one loan of
US$1.6 million for a hotel, the rest (13) were for amounts averaging about
US$100,000 each. Half of the loans to private borrowers are problem free,
and of the others only one, with a loan of US$96,000 is facing bankruptcy.
In this case the collateral is expected to cover less than 100% of the loan,
although the original value of the collateral was double the loan amount
when it was made. The conditions of the other borrowers in the problem
category are generally improving and their collateral should be sufficient,
as CDB usually requires collateral worth at least 1.5 times the loan amount.



- 45 -
7.08.     The remainder of CDB's OCR loan portfolio is made up of loans to
Governments or their agencies with a government guarantee. Unlike the Bank,
CDB's loan supervision activities usually continue after disbursements for
a project are completed. If problems develop in projects implemented by govern-
ment agencies, CDB takes an active role in solving them as necessary. Three
projects implemented by government agencies, all in their operating phase,
would be classified as having problems. In each case the loan was made to an
agency with no prior operating experience.  Six of the 14 DFC borrowers would
also be classified as having problems.  The greater incidence of problem
projects in this sector is an indication of the special problems facing DFCs
in the region (see Annex 6).  Regardless of the problems experienced by
borrowers, the governments which have guaranteed these loans are making
payments of interest and principle. As a result, CDB's arrears both for
public and private borrowers have been practically insignificant.
Projected Financial Conditions and Policy Implications
7.09      CDB and the Bank made a series of financial projections of CDB's
financial condition and results with a computer assisted model. Initial
results were based on CDB's current lending strategy, interest rate policy
and a continuation of its liquidity policy of maintaining its cash and
investments at the level of the next two years expected loan disbursements.
The projections showed that CDB's net income would stagnate and its capital
erode, despite an almost three-fold increase in CDB's assets between 1978 and
1983. This was due to four main reasons: (i) the low yield on CDB's portfolio
due to past interest rate policies and the lending pattern of channelling
funds through DFCs; (ii) higher financial expenses; and (iii) higher adminis-
trative expenses due to a more equitable allocation of overhead costs between
OCR and SFR, and an increase in the number of specialized staff in line with
the lending program. The effect of low yield and higher borrowing expenses
is demonstrated in Table 18 below:
Table 18: CDB's PROJECTED MARGIN (SPREAD)
1978    1979    1980    1981   1982    1983
Income as % of portfolio         8.17    9.28    9.48    9.71    9.78    9.80
Financial expenses as %
of borrowed funds               7.95    9.50    9.07    8.82    8.66    8.37
Margin                           0.22   (0.22)   0.41    0.89    1.22    1.43
7.10      In 1978, CDB had a margin of only 22 basis points above the cost of
borrowed funds. In 1979, it is expected that the margin will be negative
because new loans committed at higher lending rates will not yet be disbursed.
The impact of the higher interest rates adopted in 1978 will improve CDB's
margin gradually thereafter. In order to further improve CDB's profitability
it was assumed that CDB would carry out its modified liquidity policy and only



- 46 -
hold cash and investments at the level of two year's expected loan
disbursements from equity and market borrowings. Moreover, it was
assumed that CDB would in future utilize more fully the technical
assistance funds available to it to facilitate its project preparation
work by employing consultants. On the basis of these assumptions, CDB's
projected financial condition and results were calculated. They are
given in Annex 16 and the assumptions on which they are based are given
in Annex 17. The major results of the projections are summarized in
Table 19 below:
Table 19: CDB's PROJECTED FINANCIAL RESULTS
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
% of average assets
Income from investments                 4.2     3.6    3.0        2.3     1.8
Income from loans                       3.5     3.9    4.8        5.9     6.6
Total                             7.7      7.5    7.8       8.2      8.4
Financial expenses                      2.9      3.0    3.0       3.4      3.8
Margin                                  4.8      4.5    4.8       4.8      4.6
Administrative expenses                 1.7      1.9    1.9       1.9      1.7
Net Income                        3.1      2.6    2.9        2.9     2.9
Net income (US$ million)                2.2      2.1    2.8       3.4      4.2
Net income as % of average equity    4.5         3.9    4.6       5.0      5.5
Total assets (US$ million)             73.8    86.8  104.6    128.4   163.6
Total borrowed funds (US$ million)  22.9    29.6   40.7          57.1    84.3
Debt/equity ratio                        .4       .5     .6        .8      1.1
Debt service ratio                      2.9      2.7    2.7       2.7      2.8
7.11      CDB will be able to maintain an acceptable financial position and
will be creditworthy for the proposed loan; its debt service ratio will
remain above 2:1 throughout the projection period. However, it will not be
able to meet one of its major financial objectives of preserving the value of
its capital as the expected return on capital of 5.5% is less than expected
inflation. To meet the above objectives, CDB's management has three remaining
options: (i) increase its capital; (ii) increase its lending rates; and
(iii) increase the average size of its loans to reduce administrative expenses
per dollar loaned.
7.12      CDB has just increased its capital by US$20.0 million and its members
are reluctant to make a further capital contribution for some years. CDB's
present interest rate structure is in line with levels in the Caribbean and
is differentiated by sector and type of borrower. Although CDB could further
rationalize its interest rate strucure, it would be difficult for it to raise
its rates beyond the present level.



- 47 -
7.13      Thus, CDB should reduce its administrative expenses per project, either
by increasing the average size of loans or to cover its cost partially under
a new UNDP project to finance its staff. CDB could increase its average loan
size by significantly increasing its lending to MDCs and private projects, while
maintaining, or even increasing, its level of lending to LDCs. Forecast admin-
istrative expenses assume that CDB would recruit at least 12 new professional
staff members (see paras. 4.15-16) to handle its projected lending program and
meet the need to improve its sectoral expertise. By increasing the size of
loans, there would be a cross subsidy to smaller loans. CDB would be able
to better service the LDCs with a larger number of qualified staff. With a
larger portfolio, CDB would also have a better chance of obtaining a positive
return on its capital, in real terms.
Special Fund Resources
7.14      Financial position and past financial results.  SFR balance sheets
and profit and loss statements for the years 1974-78 are shown in Annex 15.
At the end of 1978 SDF assets totalled US$96.1 million consisting of liquid
funds (28%), loans (63%), and other assets (9%). These assets were financed
by contributed resources (94%) and reserves (6%). Loans on concessionary terms
and contributions have been received from the USA, Germany, Canada, Colombia,
New Zealand, UK, Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago, and from the IDB.
7.15      SFR assets increased by more than seven times in the 1974-78 period
reflecting the heavy concentration by CDB on soft loans in recent years as
opposed to OCR lending on harder terms. SFR covered its costs during the period
and set aside a small amount each year against potential loan losses. Net
income was even lower than it should have been reflecting the heavy share of
administrative expenses borne by SFR (see para. 7.03).
7.16      Projected Financia) Condition.  Forecasts of CDB's special development
funds were made based on CDB's lending program referred to in Chapter I and
its expected sources of finance including the proposed IDA and EEC credits.
CDB's SFR resource position at the end of 1978 is given in Annex 14. Forecast
financial statements for the year 1979 to 1983 are available in the project
file. Assumptions used in making the projections are given in Annex 17. SFR's
income statements are summarized in Table 20 below:



- 48 -
Table 20: CDB - SFR-PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(US$ million)
1979   1980    1981    1982    1983
Income
Income from loans               3.2    4.7      6.3     7.6      8.5
Income from investments         1.6    1.9      2.3     2.7      3.3
Total income                 4.8    6.6      8.6    10.3    11.8
Expenses
Charges on contributions and
provision for loan losses  1.8    2.7        3.7     4.3      4.8
Administrative expenses        1.1    1.4      1.7      2.0     2.4
Net Income                   1.9    2.5      3.2     4.0      4.6
7.17      Net income rises steadily during the period in line with increased
lending operations which are financed principally by new pledges from member
countries and a USAID loan. At the end of 1983 accumulated net income and
reserves for loan losses would amount to some US$28.4 million on outstanding
loans of US$231.9 million. This is satisfactory.
Trust Fund Operations
7.18      Estimates of trust funds operations were also prepared by Bank staff
on the assumptions given in Annex 17. Forecast balance sheets, income state-
ments and cash flow statements for the years 1979 to 1983 are available
in project files. At present, CDB is allowed to collect a service charge
of 3% of the amount of loans made with VTF resources to cover its costs
of administering the Fund. The revenues from this service charge are insuffi-
cient to cover these costs. As loaned out funds are repaid to CDB, they are
then returned to the VTF. Subsequent VTF resources for CDB are channelled
through IDB.



- 49 -
VIII. THE PROJECT
Objectives
8.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) strengthen CDB and help it become a more effective regional
development institution;
(b) channel at lower cost than the Bank and IDA could do directly,
larger amounts of Bank, IDA and EEC funds to countries in the
region and for sectors in which the Bank is also active;
(c) build up CDB's capacity both in sectors in which CDB has been
lending and in those which are new to CDB, by providing Bank
staff assistance at various stages in the project cycle;
(d) strengthen the DFCs in the LDCs by using IDA funds to improve
their capital structures; and
(e) increase CDB's role in financing private sector lending and
their capacity to cofinance projects.
8.02      The proposed Bank loan and IDA/EEC credits would be made available
to CDB to finance public and private sector projects in eligible countries.
Funds could be used to finance projects in  :r .s Kif' l -e, ii-r(.;,,:, :    , manu-
facturing industry, tourism, infrastructure and social,sector projects but not
projects (e.g., health, student loans) which the Bank itself would not finance.
Bank Loan Features
8.03      Loan proceeds would be relent by CDB to governments, financial
intermediaries, and private enterprises at CDB's interest rates (Table 18),
as they may be amended from time to time. Since CDB's onlending terms are
determined on project grounds, it would not be feasible to apply country
criteria to the use of Bank funds. The loan would therefore have a term of
20 years including five years of grace, and have a fixed amortization schedule.
This is the maximum term allowed at present for Bank loans in the Caribbean
and would enable CDB to do more cofinancing of projects by taking up the later
maturities of loans, leaving other institutions, such as commercial banks, to
take the earlier maturities. The proposed fixed amortization schedule is also
much simpler to administer and would allow CDB a limited amount of rollover,
in cases where it lends with a maturity shorter than the Bank loan. In line
with CDB's Charter, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by CDB's sub-
borrowers.
8.04      As in the first loan, there would be no free limit; however, for all
projects, regardless of source of financing, which cost US$3.0 million equiva-
lent or more, and for all projects expected to be financed under the Bank
loan, an understanding was reached with CDB that it would send to the Bank for
information purposes an issues paper and appraisal report as soon as they are
prepared. The same procedure will apply to the proposed IDA and EEC credits.
'IDB agreed not to use more than 35% of the proceeds of the proposed Bank



- 50 
loan and IDA credit in any one of its member countries except in special
circumstances where the Bank may otherwise agree. In using Bank or IDA/EEC
funds CDB would be required to follow criteria set out in its policies and
procedures manual, particularly the minimum economic and financial rate of
return. Also, CDB would not use funds from the proposed loan and credits
to cofinance Bank/IDA projects, unless the Bank otherwise agreed. If the
Bank/IDA determine that a particular member is not creditworthy, CDB will
make no further subloans to that member with Bank or IDA funds until the
Bank determines that its creditworthiness has been reestablished. Agreements
on these matters were reached during negotiations.
Country Guarantees and Commitment Fee on the Loan
8.05      As in the first Bank loan to CDB, a number of different types of
guarantees will be required to conform to the Bank's Articles of Agreement.
In the case of the independent countries (Bahamas, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada,
Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia and Trinidad and Tobago), each country must provide
a blanket guarantee agreement to the Bank covering repayment by CDB of Bank
funds used for subloans to the country concerned or any subborrower in the
country. Agreement in principle has been obtained from the above countries
that the blanket guarantees will cover subloans financed not only from the
proposed Bank loan but for subsequent Bank loans and up to a limit of US$20
million of subloans in an MDC and up to US$10 million of subloans in an LDC.
Dominica, St. Vincent, and St. Lucia will have to become members of the Bank
before they can qualify for Bank funds at which time the same type of guarantee
will be required.
8.06      In the first loan, the UK Government agreed to guarantee to the Bank
repayment by CDB of Bank funds used to finance subprojects in the UK Associate
States 1/ and Dependencies, 2/ provided that the requirements of the Colonial
Loans Act are complied with and that parallel legislation is enacted in each
territory concerned, assuring repayment to the UK in the event that the UK is
called upon to fulfill its guarantee obligation to the Bank. For regional
projects, the Bank will require guarantees from the members in whose territories
the project is located. Agreement on all these guarantee arrangements was
confirmed. A guarantee satisfactory to the Bank from each eligible country
will be a condition of first disbursement of the first subloan in each country.
8.07      Because of the prolonged delays in obtaining the country guarantees
required by the Bank, especially the UK requirements as well as delays asso-
ciated with onlending through two levels of intermediaries, there have been
considerable delays in the commitment and disbursement of funds under the
first loan. The Bank therefore agreed to charge the commitment fee only from
the date that all guarantee requirements are met and the subloans are eligible
for disbursement. This procedure would be continued under the proposed loan
as well.
1/   Antigua and St. Kitts/Nevis/Anguila.
2/   Belize, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands and the
British Virgin Islands.



- 51 -
IDA and EEC Credit Features
8.08      The Eastern Caribbean LDCs include four independent countries
(Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent), two UK Associate States
(Antigua and St. Kitts/Nevis/Anguila) and a UK dependency (Montserrat).
These territories have a total population of 537,000 (1977), a land area of
less than 1,100 square miles and a per capita GNP of $540. Their structural
weaknesses and serious financial difficulties make them uncreditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms. It has, therefore, been decided to take a
group approach to the question of IDA and EEC eligibility of these islands.
IDA/EEC funds would be made available to these countries which are members of
IDA on IDA terms and there would be no need for IDA to lend directly to any of
them. At present only Grenada is a member of IDA. Dominica, St. Vincent and
St. Lucia are expected to become members within the year. The UK Associates
are eligible by virtue of the UK's membership in IDA.
8.09      Principally because of its lower manpower costs, its proximity
to its borrowers, the availability of ample technical assistance financed
from bilateral sources, and because the projects it finances are generally
less complex and are therefore more rapidly processed, CDB's cost per oper-
ation is considerably lower than IDA's. Moreover, although it is expected
that the IDA/EEC funds would be split into about seven subloans, CDB may blend
the IDA/EEC funds with its other resources, thereby further reducing its costs
of relending the IDA credit. CDB has therefore agreed to relend the IDA
credit proceeds for an administrative fee of US$548,000 to be paid in five
annual installments over the disbursement period of the credits. This fee
represents the estimated cost of CDB's regular staff time, net of technical
assistance grants from bilateral agencies and UNDP. The present value of
these payments is approximately equal to the present value of the IDA service
charge of 3/4% over the 50 year term of the two credits. Under this arrange-
ment, CDB would onlend the IDA/EEC credits to its qualifying member countries
on IDA terms. CDB would collect the service charge of 3/4% and pay it to IDA.
IDA would in turn pay CDB its agreed fee.
8.10      This method of channelling IDA funds to the region has considerable
advantages. Because of its much lower costs per operation, CDB can make a
number of credits in the region, whereas IDA, due to limitations of staff,
would have to limit itself to two or three credits in the same period. By
channelling its resources in this way, it is expected that IDA would have
greater country coverage and economic impact than if it tried to make IDA
credits directly.
8.11      The credits would be made to CDB and would be part of its SFR
operations. As such CDB would not bear the credit risk. Funds from the
credits would be channelled through a special fund created for this purpose
by CDB. Persuant to its charter, the IDA/EEC funds would be completely
segregated from CDB's other assets and liabilities. CDB has agreed during
negotiations to assign to IDA its rights to subloans made from IDA/EEC
resources, so that the credits will have the same security available to IDA
as when it lends directly. No country guarantees would be required on the
subloans which would be made to the governments of the beneficiaries on IDA
terms. The governments would relend the proceeds at rates appropriate to each
subproject and would thus retain the full financial benefit of the IDA credit
terms. The governments could relend to national DFCs at low rates or make



- 52 -
equity contributions to strengthen their financial structure. Prior approval
by IDA would be required for each subloan or investment. Recycling of IDA
funds would be the responsibility of the governments.  The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by CDB's subborrowers in accordance with CDB's Charter.
Disbursements
8.12      Bank and IDA funds would reimburse 100% of subloans up to 70% of
project costs in the MDCs and 80% in the LDCs. These represent the esti-
mated foreign exchange costs in these two groups of countries. In cases
where the amounts to be paid in foreign currency are known to exceed these
percentages, CDB may elect before its first withdrawal to receive financing
for foreign exchange expenses only. Both fixed assets and permanent working
capital would be eligible for financing. The Bank loan would be disbursed 50%
in US dollars and 50% in yen, deutsch mark or swiss frank. All disbursements
would be made against full documentation, except for DFC subloans for which
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures with supporting
documentation retained by CDB for inspection by the Bank/IDA. The Bank/IDA
would reimburse CDB for expenditures for eligible subprojects incurred no more
than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank receives a request for
authorization of a subloan. The commitment period in the case of the Bank
loan and IDA credit is two years from the time of loan signing, the latest
date for subloan submission would be December 31, 1981 and the closing date
for disbursement would be December 31, 1984. A schedule of estimated disburse-
ments is given for the loan and credit in Annex 18.
Procurement
8.13      The Bank's procurement guidelines as agreed upon during negotiations
(see para. 4.25) would be used for contracts financed from the proposed Bank
loan and IDA credit. In the case of the EEC credit, the same guidelines would
be applied, but bidding would be limited to EEC member countries and IDA member
countries that are eligible to receive special action credits.
Benefits and Risks
8.14      Through its continuing association with CDB, the Bank will be sup-
porting and strengthening both financially and institutionally the Caribbean's
primary development banking institution. By using CDB as an intermediary,
a greater number of smaller loans will be made in the Caribbean region than
the Bank and IDA would be willing to make directly. The IDA/EEC credit would
allow the smallest and poorest of the region's islands to receive financing
for priority projects on terms substantially more concessionary than other
sources provided by CDB. The risks associated with achieving these benefits
are primarily related to the political and economic climate in the Caribbean.
The promotion and implementation of projects in the region have proven very
sensitive to the progress being made by the various island economies.
Hurricanes, such as the recent one that hit Dominica, can severely damage
these fragile economies. Likewise, falling commodity prices can hurt their
agricultural exports, and further increases in oil prices could slow economic
growth. This risk, that subloans will be committed and disbursed slower than
forecast, seems low for 1980-81 as subprojects in CDB's pipeline for these
two years are substantial in number and well along in their preparation.



- 53 -
IX. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
9.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with CDB on the following:
(a) CDB would finance projects in accordance with its Policies
and Procedures Manual (para. 4.03);
(b) CDB would not use more than 35% of the Bank loan/IDA Credit in any
one member country or territory (paras. 4.04 and 8.04);
(c) CDB's Charter, Policies and Procedures Manual and Financial Policy
will not be changed if they would materially or adversely affect
its operations or financial condition (para. 4.06);
(d) CDB's sector lending priorities, its program to develop sectoral
policies in consultation with the Bank by April 30, 1980 and its
agreement to review CDB's lending programs annually (paras. 4.20
and 5.48);
(e) CDB would use Bank guidelines for procurement and permit ICB in
joint financing arrangements (paras. 4.25 and 8.13).
(f) CDB's relending of the proposed loan and credits to be limited
to sectors in which Bank itself lends (para. 8.02);
(g) CDB would not cofinance Bank/IDA projects with the proceeds of
the Bank loan or IDA credit unless the Bank/IDA agreed (para. 8.04);
(h) For all projects which cost US$3.0 million equivalent or more,
and for all projects expected to be financed by the Bank/IDA/EEC,
CDB would send to the Bank/IDA for information: (i) issues papers,
and (ii) appraisal reports (para. 8.04); and
(i) Provision of country guarantees for lending of Bank resources as a
condition of first disbursement of the first subloan in each country
(para. 8.06);
(j) Concessionary treatment of the commitment fee (para. 8.07);
(k) Eligibility of CDB member countries to borrow under the pro-
posed loan and credits (paras. 8.04 and 8.08);
(1) Administrative fee to reimburse CDB for relending IDA/EEC credit
proceeds (para. 8.09);
(m) IDA approval of all subloans using IDA or EEC funds (para 8.11); and
(n) CDB's assignment of rights to IDA of subloans (para. 8.11).
Recommendation
9.02      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$23.0
million, an IDA credit of US$7.0 million and EEC Special Action Credit of
US$1.0 million on terms and conditions listed in Chapter VIII.



SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Basic Indicators for CARIFTA/CARICOM Countries. 1977a1
1977 GNP           1977 GNP b/       Agric. as c/        Manufacturing -l        Exports as        Imports as
Area       Population 25        Factor cost         per Capita         Percentage          as Petrcentage          Percentage        Percentage
LDCs                   v .2          (OOO's)             (US$m)              (US$)               of GDP                of GDP                of GNP           of GNP
Antigua              441.6            72.5                62.1                 890                4.8                   8.0                  53.3             71.0
Dominica             787.4            76.7                33.0                 410.              34.1                   4.4                  45.3             66.6
Grenada              344.5           105.2                49.4                 480               34.9 -                 2.7                  53.2             65.8
Montserrat           102.3            12.7                 9.3                 745                7.9                   1.9                  36.0              76.3
St.KitliNevis-    352.2               49.7                30.1                650                21.3                  16.7                  55.5             81.1
Angu 
St. Lucia            616.4           113.7                65.4                580                14.5                   7.8                  61.8             95.3
St. Vincent          384.0           103.1                33.5                330                24.1                   7.6                  45.9             98.1
Belize            22,960.0           129.8                98.6                810                18.7                  12.1                  73.4             94.7      1
t_n
Total            25,988.4           663.4               381.4.                                                                                                         C
MDCs
Bahamas           13,942.0           220.0               750.0              3,450                 Z.5SZ                 7.0 11              371.6 /          414.4 1/
Barbados             429.9           250.0               497.6  .           1,760                11.3                  10.9                  63.0              72.2
Guyana           215,000.0           820.0               473.9                 560               20.8                  12.0                  66.2             83.5
Jamaica           11,424.0         2,138.0             2,638.3              1,150                 8.9                  19.0                  34.9             33.7
Trinidad           5,128.0         1,114.8             2,936.0              2,380                 2.9                  14.0                  48.2             40.1
and Tobago
Total           245,923.9         4,542.8             7,295.8
a/ Mid 1977
b/ Atlas method.
ct  Figures for LDCs correspond to 1976.                                                                                                                                 =
dt 1978
e/ Mid 1978.
ft Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry.
j/ 1976, includes Petroleum.
ht  As % of GDP at Market Prices.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
The Agriculture Sector
Introduction
1.        CDB's main agricultural lending strategy continues to be directed
towards increasing production of export crops and food crops for import sub-
stitution, and stabilizing agriculture by improving the prosperity of the
smaller farmers who operate the great majority of farms. Most direct lending
in the sector is for livestock, estate and farm development (including sugar
and bananas), marketing and processing. Agricultural credit for the smaller
farmers is provided indirectly through DFCs. CDB also lends for regional
food production and agricultural feeder roads which are shown in CDB statis-
tics as infrastructure development.
Operations to date
2.        From its establishment in 1970 to end-1978 CDB has approved 101
loans for agriculture valued at $52.9 million. Two-thirds of agricultural
lending was through SFR compared with just over one quarter to the end of
1974, when cumulative approvals were about one half as much, illustrating
the heavy swing to SFR financing that has since occurred in agriculture as
in other sectors. The average size of agricultural loans at the end of 1978
was $0.2 million for CARICOM LDCs and $1.8 million for MDCs and other LDCs,
with an overall average of $0.5 million.
3.        Approvals by category over the past 5 years have been as follows:
Cumulative to end year a/       1974     1975      1976      1977     1978
(in millions of US$)
Agricultural                    19.0      12.6     14.3      22.1      26.3
Livestock                         -        0.6      0.7       3.9       2.8
Estate and Farm                  1.6       1.3      1.2       1.2      0.7
Banana                            -        5.2      4.7       4.5       7.1
Processing                    )            1.2      0.9       2.1       1.0
Marketing                     )  5.0        -       2.1       2.1       2.1
Sugar                            2.4       -        0.4       0.5      0.4
Food and Nutrition                -         -        -         -      11.0 b/
Other                             -        1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5
Total                     28.0      22.4      25.8     37.9      52.9
Net increase over
previous year                  n.a.    (5.6)      7.4      12.1     15.0
a/   Net of cancellations.
b/   Program loans.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
The total amount of approvals doubled between 1976 and 1978. The most
important category remains agricultural credit, which was 50% of the
total at end-1978. In 1978 three program loans for food and nutrition
were approved under the Caribbean Development Facility (to Barbados,
Guyana and Jamaica) for US$11.0 million and a further nine projects for
US$4.7 million, giving a total of US$15.7 million.  At the end of the year
a further ten projects were in various stages of identification, prepara-
tion and appraisal.
Agricultural Credit
4.         CDB's agricultural loans to small and medium size private bor-
rowers are channeled through DFCs. For these operations the minmum loan
size of US$100,000 for CDB direct lending does not apply and loans may be
for any amount within each DFC's own lending criteria. Loans may be
made for crops, livestock and land development, bee keeping, fishing,
farm machinery, permanent pasture and tree crops, irrigation and drainage,
erosion control, farm buildings and the like. They may not be made to
purchase land or repay old debts. The two major sources of farm credit
are the Farm Improvement Credit (FIC) scheme and the Agricultural Production
Credit (APC) scheme.
5.         Farm Improvement Credit:  The FIC scheme aims at medium- and long-
term loans to small and medium farmers. CDB loans to DFCs are made at 4%
p.a. and repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace. Subloans
to farmers range from US$1,500 to US$100,000 at interest rates not normally
exceeding 8% p.a. 1/ for five to 15 years, depending on the project with grace
periods of up to three years. To assist DFCs in implementing the scheme, CDB
has placed a Farm Improvement Officer (FIO) in each institution, responsible
for identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision of individual
loans. FIOs also assist DFC managements in their overall operations, so
contributing to their institutional development. This contribution has not
yet been fully effective because many DFCs are unable to provide adequate
counterparts, and FIOs are directly responsible to CDB although placed under
DFC management.
6.   During 1978 CDB approved US$0.7 million to extend FIC operations in
the British Virgin Islands and Grenada, and to start pperations in the Cayman
Islands, bringing the total to ten participating countries, served by seven
FIOs. Cumulative loan approvals under the scheme at end-1978 were US$7.9
million, of which US$5.0 million had been committed for subloans to 857
farmers and fishermen, an average of about US$5,800 per loan. Because of
the recent decrease in activity in some territories, CDB will make a study
in 1979 to evaluate the performance of the FIC scheme, to highlight problems
and to recommend ways and means of reversing the present decline in activity.
1/   The rate in Belize has recently been increased to 9% p.a.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
7.        Agricultural Production Credit:  A contributory factor to the
relatively low activity under the FIC scheme has been the difficulty of
farmers in obtaining short-term seasonal credit for production purposes.
DFCs and governments have been unable to finance this from their own
resources. In 1977, CDB set up the APC scheme (with USAID funds) to pro-
vide such credit. An important feature is the widening of the range of
acceptable security and the provisions for close supervision of the
borrowers. Because of the need to establish the scheme on a strong foot-
ing from the outset, CDB has arranged for technical assistance to DFCs
and Ministries of Agriculture to enable them to train small farmers in
improved management of their operations, including budgeting and the
use of appropriate technologies in raising efficiency in production and
crop marketing.
8.        Under this scheme CDB funds are lent to DFCs at 4% p.a. interest,
and onlent to farmers at 12% p.a. This onlending rate is higher than that
under the FIC scheme because of the much higher administrative cost and
risk. During 1977 CDB approved US$2.0 million for APC loans in four LDCs
(Antigua, Belize, Dominica, and St. Lucia). In 1978, a further US$0.3 was
approved for operations in Cayman Islands and Grenada.
9.        Development Finance Companies:  A major constraint in extending
agricultural credit to small and medium farmers is the weakness of the
DFCs, particularly in administering credit programs (Annex 6). Total
approvals at end-1978 for agricultural credit through DFCs was US$27.5
million of which the bulk (US$26.3 million) was through the FIC and APC
schemes. Another constraint is the lack of precise information on overdue
loans repayments. More complete analyses are essential, including details
of overdue amounts by time and by case (natural calamity, late arrival of
inputs, wilful default, etc.). Regular reporting of rescheduled loans is
also necessary. Without such information, CDB may find that when a further
loan for credit is required by a DFC, a substantial portion may in fact
be financing a significnat increase in arrears accumulated during disburse-
ment of the previous loan, and attributable to wilful defaults rather than
causes outside the control of the borrowing farmers.
10.       Apart from their internal institutional problems, DFCs have
external difficulties in making agricultural credit loans. The majority
of small farmers are part-time operators who lack working capital and
are reluctant to borrow for investment. Many do not qualify for long-
term loans, and those who do usually have difficulty in providing land
titles as collateral and following reasonable accounting procedures as
required by DFCs. As a result, a high proportion of loan applications
are rejected. Nevertheless, the FIOs are beginning to make an impact
on the problems of the small farmers. With the help of CDB's technical
assistance to the Ministries of Agriculture, a gradual improvement can
be expected. When the operations of DFCs are being studied it would be
useful to include an inquiry into ways and means of accepting securities
other than land titles for long-term loans.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Direct Lending Operations
11.       Although the demand for direct lending in the private sector
showed some increase in 1977, it declined in 1978. This is in part due
to the lack of adequate security available to potential borrowers. CDB
recognizes the need for more vigorous promotion in the sector, and this
is now being pursued.
12.       Considering the potential, livestock development projects have
not come forward very rapidly. CDB is aware of the prospects and since
1976 has paid special attention to such projects. In 1977 two projects
were approved, and three more are in preparation. There is relatively
good potential for small scale development by individual small farmers,
particularly in the LDCs, but significant progress must be coupled with
improvements in the capability and expertise within Ministries of Agricul-
ture and the DFCs.
13.       CDB has long recognized the problems of marketing, particularly
for local distribution of food and other crops, but new projects to
improve marketing facilities have not been developed since 1976. CDB
is actively pursuing the subject and projects to improve marketing facil-
ities in Belize and Grenada are in preparation.
14.       Approvals for processing and agroindustries projects totalled
only US$1.0 million at end-1978. A study has been made of prospects in
the LDCs and greater progress in this subsector is expected in future.
15.       Although  small fishing boats have been financed under the FIC
scheme, CDB has not as yet approved a direct fisheries project. However,
one project in Antigua was appraised in 1978 and is expected to be approved
in 1979.
Feeder Roads
16.       Feeder roads for agricultural development are shown in CDB
statistics as infrastructure development, but the Agriculture Division is
responsible for them. Approvals over the past three years have totalled
US$12.1 million, US$11.1 million through SFR. Approvals for feeder road
loans more than doubled between 1975 and 1978. With the exception of Belize,
construction in other countries has generlly been slow, mainly because of the
inability of the Ministries of Works to carry them out expeditiously with
their current resources. In a few areas local contractors have been employed
with varying success. In the LDCs, most projects have been for lengths of a
few miles only, in scattered areas. In future, if a feeder road of sufficient
length to make a significant impact on the agricultural potential of an area
is under consideration, CDB intends to consider the possibility of including
it as part of an integrated rural development proejct.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Other Agricultural Activities
17.       CDB has been involved in a number of studies and other activities
in cooperation with other regional and international institutions. Over
the past three years these have included: (a) studies to develop processing
facilities appropriate for small farmer production; (b) a study of agricul-
tural prospects in the Turks and Caicos Islands; (c) a report on the techno-
logy and scale of flour milling in ECCM; (d) development of a small farmer
irrigation system for bananas; (e) development of a system of farm records and
accounting for small farmers; (f) a number of training programs for DFC and
agricultural staff in small farmer credit; (g) considerable assistance to the
CARICOM Secretariat over the formation of the Caribbean Food Corporation;
and (h) a ten-week training program in conjunction with EDI on preparation
and appraisal of agroindustrial projects for CDB member countries and
regional institutions.
Agriculture Division
18.       Reorganization:  CDB's management structure was reorganized on
January 1, 1979 and some further changes were made on April 1, 1979. Details
are in Annex 8. In agriculture the main change has been that responsibility
for lending to agriculture through the DFCs has been transferred to the
Industry Division and agricultural staff are to be loaned to the Industry
Division as required.
19.       Staffing:  The Agriculture Division currently has 15 staff at Head
Office. Additionally, there are seven FIOs in the field. There is also
a coordinator and two project officers dealing with export marketing that
assist the Division with agricultural export problems. Five of the agricul-
tural staff are expatriates on secondment through various technical assistance
programs. There are specialists for livestock (two), fisheries and agro-
industries, and an agricultural engineer who is mainly responsible for irri-
gation. Four of the staff have experience as financial analysis.
20.       Professional staff at Head Office is now more than adequate for
the present workload. However, in view of the importance and emphasis on
improving the marketing of local produce within each country and its high
priority, CDB is about to appoint an additional officer with experience
in this field.
21.       Project Identification and Preparation:  The general lack of
agricultural development plans and strategies, particularly in LDCs, means
that project identification is mainly ad hoc. Interested countries, insti-
tutions and individuals present proposals to CDB staff on field visits,
through FIOs or by direct approach. CDB staff also identify projects
during their field visits. Selection is based on those better suited to
CDB financing, and on their prima facie benefit to the country. While this
method has been adequate in the past, a more systematic and aggressive
approach will be necessary in the future if CDB's pipeline of projects is
to be maintained. This is likely to come at least in part from the recent
and future work of the CG in this field.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
22.       Nominally, project preparation is the responsibility of the
borrower, but without CDB staff assistance, very few projects (particularly
in LDCs) would get to the appraisal stage. The assistance given by other
institutions is increasing but still limited. For the larger private
sector and government projects, CDB has made good use of consultants and
has sought technical advice as necessary. Because of the heavy CDB
staff involvement, preparation is generally of a good standard. The time
taken from identification to completion of preparation varies enormously
and is dependent to a large extent on the degree of interest shown by the
government and other interested parties. Every effort should be made to
increase the borrowers' share of this work.
23.       Proiect Appraisal:  Appraisal is done by CDB staff, usually a
team that includes an agriculturalist, economist, and technical and legal
specialists as necessary. There has been a marked improvement in the
quality of appraisal reports over the past year or so. In general, the
problems of local marketing are not always examined in sufficient detail
to make the price assumptions acceptable, but this should improve in future.
Some earlier orojects suffered from sizeable cost overruns due to inadequate
price conti..gencies in the cost estimates. Recently CDB has revised its
earlier instructions on inflation factors and contingencies to be used in
appraisal estimates and the problem should be of less importance in future.
24.       Project execution would be improved if more precise requirements
cove-ing provision of agricultural support services and their timing were
included in loan agreements rather than relying on general clauses that
state that "adequate" services will be provided. These requirements have
been very much more precise in recent CDB loan agreements than in the past.
Provided this standard can be maintained, future project execution should
be easier. Now that CDB has ample funds for technical assistance, more
could be done to include an element of technical assistance in agricultural
projects, rather than provide such assistance as a separate project.
25.       Supervision:  Most project officers make regular visits to coun-
tries in the rcgion, and the frequency of supervision visits is generally
adequate. Under the present reporting system some supervision reports are
very brief and give scant information on the progress of the project as a
whole, while the quarterly progress reports to senior management are some-
what sketchy. The new Loan Supervision Unit is at present drafting new
supervision procedures that will include improvements in reporting require-
ments. Also, the supervision system must ensure that when reports are overdue
the project managements are subject to continuing pressure to supply them.
Now that CDB is placing more emphasis on completion reports, the quarterly
reports should also include essential data that will be required for them.
Future Lending Strategy
26. CDB's overall objectives for agricultural lending in the region are very
similar to those of the Bank Group. These include: (a) encouragement of
production of commodities for which each territory is well suited or for which



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
they have a natural advantage and for which there are reasonable market-
ing opportunities; (b) emphasis on intensifying land use systems and
improving productivity, particularly by small farmers; and (c) encourge-
ment of improvement in the agricultural support services, which at present
are extremely poor.
27.       While attempting to meet these objectives, both CDB and the Bank
Group recognize that for ecological, technical and political reasons good
projects are hard to find and even harder to implement. The constraints
to agricultural development are formidable, and it would be unrealistic to
expect rapid expansion in the near future, even if a concerted effort
could be mounted. Although self-sufficiency in food production in the
region is currently an objective of CARICOM, it should not be followed
blindly at the expense of better use of the land for other more profitable
crops. Because experience to date has shown that prospects for regional
cooperation in agriculture are not very encouraging, the emphasis should be
on national rather than regional projects, particularly for food production.
28.       Better marketing facilities and increases in crop yields are the
major factors in improving the prosperity of the smaller farmers, particularly
in the LDCs. Projects that incorporate better agricultural support services
(in particular marketing and extension), improved husbandry, higher yielding
seeds, and more timely availability of seasonal credit, fertilizer, pesticides
and seeds should be encouraged. A major limiting factor to their success
remains the weakness of DFCs in administering credit programs, so that improve-
ment of their operational efficiency continues to be of paramount importance
and high priority.
29.       Commercial banks are not generally involved in financing farm credit
in the region, especially for smaller farmers, although elsewhere in the world
their involvement is increasing. CDB is considering various proposals for
involving them more this sector, and should continue to give the matter priority.
Projected Operations, 1979-83
30.       Projected approvals under CDB's future agricultural lending program
1979-83 are expected to total US$73.0 million and agriculture's share of CDB's
total operations is expected to decline from 29% in 1970-78 to 26% in 1979-83.
Average lending for agriculture over the period would be US$14.6 million per
annum, compared with US$12.1 million in 1977 and US$15.7 million in 1978. The
five-year total reflects the dearth of projects in the pipeline, which empha-
sizes the need for much more intensive work on project identification.
31.       The relative importance in agriculture of the various CDB funds is
shown in the following table:



- 62 -
AWN& 2
1970-78              1979-83
$M    %              $M    %
OCR             15   28              35   48
VTF              3    6               6    8
SFR            35   66               32   44
53  100              73  100
OCR funds are likely to be the main source in 1979-83 although less impor-
tant than SFR funds in 1970-78. This reflects in part the emphasis to be
placed on the private sector, and underlines the need for more vigorous
promotion if the target is to be achieved.
32.       The internal reorganization should enable CDB to increase both
the volume and quality of its operations. In the Agriculture Division,
CDB now has more than adequate staff to maintain its projected operations
in 1979 and 1980, and to continue the improvement in quality that has been
evident since 1977. Without more projects in the pipeline, the Division
will have excessive staff to deal with its work program from about 1981
onwards. By that time, however, a program for strengthening DFCs should
be underway, and the Division may find that much more staff time needs
to be devoted to DFC work without any significant increase in the lending
program. By that time also, more vigorous promotion in the private sector
and in project identification should have made an impact on the work
program.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
The Industrial Sector
A.   General
1.        The manufacturing sector in the MDCs consists largely of light
industry. Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago have some heavy industry
based on their petroleum and bauxite resources; however, the linkage between
these heavy industries and the rest of their economies is minmal. In 1976
manufacturing accounted on the average for 12% of GDP in the MDCs, the same
as in 1971. The MDCs accounted for 94% of manufacturing GDP in the region
while possessing 85% of the population. Employment in manufacturing in
the MDCs in 1976 is estimated at 140,000 (14.3% of the working population).
Real growth in manufacturing from 1970 to 1976 has varied widely among the
MDCs, the fastest growth being registered by Barbados (7.8%), followed by
Trinidad and Tobago (5.8%); Guyana (4.4%). Jamaica's growth was disappointing
at 1.9%.
2.        Jamaica possesses the largest manufacturing sector in the region,
accounting consistently for more than 50% of total manufacturing total value
added of the MDCs. It has a relatively broad based and sophisticated
manufacturing sector which produces a wide variety of products including
food and beverages, tobacco, chemical and metal products, most of which are
import substituting. Trinidad and Tobago has the second largest industrial
sector covering three major subsectors; petroleum refining and petrochemicals
(accounting for 35% of manufacturing value added in 1977); beverages and
tobacco (20%) and other, mainly consumer oriented, manufacturing (45%). In
Guyana, manufacturing is still a minor sector of the economy accounting for
only 6% of GDP in 1976, excluding sugar and rice milling. In Barbados,
manufacturing plays a slightly larger but still relatively minor role. The
smaller domestic market has resulted in greater emphasis being placed upon
export markets rather than on import substitution, for example in the devel-
opment of clothing for export.
3.        Industrial activity in the LDCs is limited, its magnitude and
scope varying considerably among the countries. In Antigua, St. Kitts,
and St. Lucia, manufacturing is relatively diverse, encompassing a limited
amount of import substitution (soft drinks, concrete blocks), production
for regional markets (garments, beer, processed agricultural products) and
export-oriented firms (TV and electronic assembly plants). At the other end
of the spectrum, Dominica, Grenada and St. Vincent have very narrow manufac-
turing sectors. Belize, however, has experienced rapid growth in manufacturing
in recent years (8.6% annually from 1970 to 1976). Several new import-substi-
tuting industries (fertilizer mixing, flour milling and animal feeds) have.
been established there in recent years but manufacturing is still dominated by
an enclave garment industry which exports to the USA.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
4.        Manufacturing in the CARICOM area suffers from two main constraints;
the lack and/or inadequacy of supply of raw materials and intermediate pro-
ducts and the smallness of the size of domestic markets. The first constraint
has led to a heavy dependence on imported materials and inputs. The second
constraint has worked against the development of an efficient type of indus-
trialization. Moreover, high capital intensity has been fostered by duty-
free imports of capital goods which has led to a non-optimal, low price of
capital in an area which has serious unemployment.
5.        From a very low base in 1960, the region's exports of manufactures
grew at an average rate of 20% until 1967; than by 10.5% from 1967 to 1973
and 28% from 1973 to 1976. However, growth in manufactured exports has not
increased as a percentage of the region's total exports, suggesting that
the region has not yet significantly diversified away from traditional primary
exports. If fuels are excluded, most of the increase in manufactures' share
occurred before 1967 with no major change during the subsequent CARIFTA/
CARICOM periods. Manufactures play a larger role in intraregional trade
than in the region's world-wide trade. Excluding fuels, manufactures' share
rose from 37% in 1960 to 53% in 1968 and 56% in 1975. The largest increase
occurred before the establishemnt of CARIFTA. However, between 1972 and 1976,
the LDCs' share of intraregional manufactured exports increased from 1 to
4% led by expansion in St. Lucia, Belize and St. Kitts with a corresponding
reduction in the shares of Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago.
6.        Since the inception of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA)
in 1968 and the establishment of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) in 1973,
regional efforts to stimulate investment in manufacturing production centered
on three types of incentive schemes. The first was trade liberalization through
the dismantling of national tariffs and quotas and the establishment of an
origin system which lays down the rules under which goods produced and exchanged
among member countries can quality for dutyfree treatment in the Common Market.
The second is the Common External Tariff (CET) and regional system of quanti-
tative restrictions. The CET came into effect for the MDCs in August 1973
with an allowance for the phasing in of common tariffs on products sensitive to
individual members. The LDCs had already agreed to and implemented their own
ECCM CET in 1972 at levels of nominal protection on average one-third less
than those agreed to by the MDCs. They were consequently permitted to phase
in the CARICOM CET by 1981. National quantitative restrictions governing
imports from third countries, however, still exist; and only a weak under-
standing was made to harmonize such as soon as possible after 1981. In addi-
tion, in the case of balance of payment difficulties, an individual country
is permitted to impose quantitative restrictions on intra-CARICOM imports.
The CET implies an average level of tariff of about 19% but, together with
the quantitative restrictions and tariff exonerations for imported inputs,
provides a high level of protection for products manufactured for the
domestic and regional markets. The third incentive scheme is the Agreement
on the Harmonization of Fiscal Incentives to Industry under which tax holi-
days may be offered, their duration depending on the level of industriali-
zation of the country and the degree of local/regional value added in the
production process.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
7.        Other regional undertakings to stimulate industrial investment
include: double taxation agreements; the establishment of the CARICOM
Multilateral Clearing Facility in 1977 to facilitate the settlement of
inter-member country transactions; and, the establishment of an ECCM
Allocation Scheme of Industries in favor of the LDCs.
8.        The incentive schemes specifically recognized that the LDCs
face greater problems than other members and, as a result, in addition
to giving longer phasing-in periods for the CET and more generous invest-
ment incentives, the LDCs received further concessions including: more
favorable rules of origin, greater potential tariffs and quota protection
against MDC exports; a moratorium on incentives by MDCs to certain indus-
tries considered suitable for LDCs, and government aid for exports to MDCs.
9.        Except in Barbados and St. Lucia, the incentives have not created
the stimuli required by manufacturing industry in CARICOM. The high levels of
effective protection are biased in favor of capital-intensive operations when
there is a severe unemployment problem in every member country. This is
encouraged by duty-free imports of capital and intermediate goods and generous
depreciation allowances. The incentive system also has a bias against certain
exports. Fiscal benefits to exporters are generally not sufficient to make
them competitive with more experienced or more subsidized foreign competitors
in third country markets. Moreover, the incentives provided do not encourage
efficient resource allocation. Tax holidays are granted according to the
level of local value added at local prices. Industries with high rates of
protection can set high local prices and can thus raise their tax allowances.
Firms which operate efficiently at low prices and at low levels of protec-
tion are consequently penalized. Rules of origin, which had been based
essentially upon local value added similarly put no emphasis on efficiency
and in effect discriminated against the low cost producer. Recent changes
in these rules will to some extent eliminate this problem when implemented.
It appears also, that the fiscal incentives are over-generous. In most cases
most investments would have been made even without the incentives since in
most cases tariff and quantitative restrictions will produce sufficient
protection to the investor. The ECCM Allocation Scheme of Industries has not
been successful because it was not based on any rational study. As a result,
activities already allocated were duplicated, in some cases by more than
one country.
10.       Current strategy, born out of the realization of the economic
difficulties of members and their severe balance of payments problems, is to
attempt to achieve self-sufficiency for basic goods and services and reduce
the region's dependence on external sources of supply. Import-substitution
is to be pushed even at a high price. However, unless emphasis is also
put on efficiency and rationalization, over-emphasis on import substitution
supported by high levels of effective protection could, because of the small
size of the market, eventually destroy the competitiveness of industry, making
it more difficult to export outside the region. The region's comparative
advantage lies in its pool of labor and relatively low wages, together with
its access to the US and EEC markets. The emphasis of most new industrial



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
ventures should therefore be extraregional. The region must establish
a favorable economic environment in order to attract external finance,
technology and marketing connections. The role of the private sector
must be made clear and governments must implement economic and financial
strategies which create confidence. In order to maintain international
competitiveness, real wages must not be permitted to grow without comparable
increases in productivity. Finally, realistic exchange rate policies
must be followed and every attempt made to reduce transport costs both
within the region and extraregionally.
B.   CDB and the Industrial Sector
11.       CDB's lending in the industrial sector through 1978 has only amounted
to about US$30.0 million equivalent. About half of this amount was lent
through DFCs (US$10.4 million for industrial estates and US$4.4 million for
small scale industry) and the other half for direct lending (sugar processing
of US$3.0 million in St. Vincent, US$11.0 million for industrial estates, the
rest for other small investments). The low level of investment is due to a
number of factors. The demand for industrial credit has been low due to the
recent balance of payments problems faced by most countries and the uncertain
political climates in Guyana and Jamaica. Foreign investors have stayed away
from the Caribbean except for Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago. In the MDCs
most new industrial investment can be financed by national DFCs and other
available sources and CDB has chosen to lend through such DFCs and not compete
with them. In the LDCs the scope for industrial investment is limited and CDB
has for the most part left the role of promoting investment to the CIC, a
regional organization established to promote investment in the LDCs. For
some years CDB concentrated on identifying and promoting regional projects
which did not materialize. In doing so it chose to give priority to industrial
projects owned or controlled by Caribbean mationals.
12.       CDB's strategy has produced limited results in industry.  The DFCs
through which CDB has channelled resources in the LDCs have not been effective
instruments because of their small size and poor managements. They are under-
capitalized and have inadequate financial spreads due to the low interest
rates they charge; as a result many are in financial difficulties. The CIC
is now defunct and will be wound up, its functions to be assumed by CDB.
13.       In order to improve its effectiveness in the industrial sector,
CDB has recently taken the following steps:
(a) Established a division in its Projects Department responsible
for DFCs and an Industry/Tourism Division with increased staff;
(b) Started a systematic review of the DFCs and the preparation of
action plans for each DFC to improve their management and finances
to be implemented as a condition of further lending;
(c) Established a Technology Transfer Unit; and
(d) Revised its lending rules to make them more flexible for
private industry.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
14.       CDB is also considering channelling industrial credits to SSEs
through the commercial banking system. USAID expects to provide US$10.0
million to CDB to support such a program. CDB is reluctant to aggressively
promote large private investments in LDCs, as this would expose it to
charges of favouritism. It also feels that such projects cannot succeed
without a strong initial political commitment from the host country. In
most cases equity investors are reluctant to commit funds where the
political climate is perceived as hostile. For these reasons CDB intends
to pursue its industrial promotion activities for LDCs and MDCs within the
framework of the CG. This group's sector missions have already identified
a significant number of projects in the manufacturing and agroindustry area
and several large private brewery projects in the MDCs are also included
in CDB's pipeline. To maintain this momentum, CDB is financing a regional
industrial programming study to identify further new projects. CDB should
continue to finance through national DFCs and at the same time focus more
attention on larger private projects and cofinancing with DFCs or commercial
banks. To the extent possible within the Caribbean political environment,
CDB should be more flexible in its approach to financing foreign controlled
projects. In keeping with the investment strategy outlined in paragraph 9
above, CDB should promote export oriented and labor intensive projects.
At the recent meeting in June 1979 of CG a task force was established to
encourage the more effective participation of the private sector in develop-
ment.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
The Tourism Sector
Developments in the Tourism Sector
1.        The tourism sector has been leading the growth of some of the
economies of the Caribbean region in recent years and is one of the most
important sources of foreign exchange earnings. The region, which is one
of the major holiday destinations in the world, offers excellent beach-
oriented vacations, catering during the winter season mainly to the more
affluent North American and European visitors and during the summer to the
more budget-minded tourists. The total number of tourists to the Caribbean
increased from 3.7 million in 1970 to 4.7 million in 1977 and is estimated
to have exceeded 5.0 million in 1978. As a result of the recession in Europe
and North America, traffic slowed substantially in 1974 and decreased in
1975 (-2%). In 1976, tourist traffic to the Caribbean increased, but by
less than 1%, reflecting competition from the US Bicentennial celebrations
and the Olympic Games in Canada. Traffic picked up substantially in 1977
(+6%) and partial figures for 1978 indicate an even higher growth rate.
2.        Tourism growth in the LDC and MDC countries has, in general,
followed the Caribbean pattern, although they have fared somewhat better.
Between 1970 and 1977, tourism to the LDCs grew at a rate of 3.8% per year
compared to about 3.5% for the Caribbean as a whole, while the growth rate
was even higher in Barbados (8.1%) and Trinidad and Tobago (9.4%). Between
1977 and 1978, tourist arrivals in the LDCs increased by 20% while the
increase in Barbados in 1978 was in the order of 18% and in Jamaica 34%
(see Table 1). For 1979, the hotel industry is projecting an even higher
growth rate.
3.        The growth in tourist arrivals can be attributed to the continuing
economic recovery in the tourist-generating countries, the increasing value
of the European currencies vis-a-vis the dollar, the recent introduction of
discount fares on regularly scheduled flights and the development of one-
stop charters. Equally important, the growth in tourist arrivals has also
been possible because of the availability of accommodation built during the
tourist boom years of the late 60s and early 70s. Hotel occupancies on all
islands have been pushed to high levels, particularly in the winter months.
4.        Future prospects for tourism in the Caribbean are considered
favorable, provided the economic recovery in the originating markets is sus-
tained. The Canadian and the US markets are expected to grow at a modest
rate, reflecting increased market penetration for low-cost group vacation
travel, offset somewhat by slower economic growth. By comparison, the number
of European visitors to the Caribbean is expected to grow at a faster pace,
reflecting higher economic growth, and increased vacation demand for long
haul destinations. Travel sources estimate the likely overall growth in
tourism to the Caribbean region over the longer term at 5% to 6% per annum
or slightly below the 6.5% growth rate observed prior to the 1974/75 recession.



69 -
ANNEX 4
5.        The main constraints to an even modest growth in tourism are
likely to be difficulties of air access to some islands and a shortage
of suitable accommodation. Efforts to improve air access should be
directed more to improvements in services, particularly of regional airlines
rather than large investments in airports. With respect to tourist fac-
ilities, a review of the information available suggests the need for the
islands in the Eastern Caribbean to begin planning to increase investment
in accommodation and related facilities. Admittedly, hotel occupancies
in some hotels and in some islands are still not sufficiently high and past
experience dictates the need to be cautious. However, given the gestation
period generally involved, it would be prudent to plan for increased invest-
ments now, both in the expansion of new facilities and the refurbishing and
upgrading of existing facilities. This expansion should go hand in hand
with a regional plan for marketing and promoting new and existing facilities,
if such a plan can be devised and adopted by the countries concerned.
CDB and the Tourism Sector
6.        CDB has financed tourism in the Caribbean in three different ways:
(a)  directly   - through loans and sometimes through equity parti-
cipation in hotels and recreational facilities.
(b) indirectly - through local DFCs; and
(c) through financing infrastructure, agricultural and other
projects directly or indirectly benefitting tourism devel-
opment.
7.        Since its inception CDB has, in general, concentrated its efforts
on the development of infrastructure and in tourism, in assisting small
establishments that are locally owned. While its infrastructure projects
may have in one or another way benefitted tourism, CDB's direct lending
activities to hotels and other facilities have been limited. Up until
December 31, 1978, CDB's direct lending to the tourism sector amounted to
US$4.3 million, or 2.5% of total lending of US$180.0 million. The reasons
for CDB's limited activities in the tourism sector appear to have been:
(a) the adverse market conditions arising from the energy crisis
in 1973, when investors and potential borrowers were under-
standably shy. Also, CDB may have deliberately decided to
stay away because of its experience with projects such as
Cariblue Hotel in St. Lucia and the difficulties the commercial
banks were having with hotel projects in the region;
(b) CDB's policy in the tourism sector, and the terms and conditions,
of its loans: CDB has thus far not considered lending to hotels
to be of high priority. It normally prefers financing small hotels
owned by nationals or local governments. Under its financial



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
policies, CDB was empowered to provide loans with grace periods of
up to five years (some earlier loans carried a grace period of as
low as two years) and repayment periods of five to ten years, terms
that appear to be shorter than the industry could sustain. But more
importantly, a borrower was expected to put up to 60% in either
equity or alternative financing before he could qualify for a CDB
loan. It is possible that CDB's lending terms may have both affected
the volume of CDB's lending in the sector and caused financial
difficulties for its borrowers. With a view to improving the
situation, CDB recently modified its loan terms to extend repayment
periods to 18 years and CDB financing up to 67% of project costs;
(c)  the lack of promotional activity:  by and large, hotel and other
tourist facilities are generally considered private sector activity.
However, there generally exists a considerable lack of knowledge
among private individuals and investors as to ways of putting
together a project, the availability of incentives, knowledge of
tax laws, etc. This has been partially overcome by the World Bank
Group through the promotional efforts of IFC. The CDB combines
in itself the role of both IBRD and IFC but it does not appear
to have emphasized its promotional activities.
8.        CDB's policy towards tourism is reflected in the fact that there
is only one person working full-time on the sector. He is doing an adequate
job; he is not only responsible for preparing, appraising and supervising
the small number of projects financed directly by CDB, but also for super-
vising projects financed by local DFCs. He has not, however, participated
in the processing of a number of infrastructure projects financed by CDB
which are in several instances justified by tourism. Also, CDB, which has
been active in making student loans, has not given enough priority to
promoting loans that would allow local students to acquire skills in the
hotel field.
9.        If tourism is to play an important role in the economies of the
Caribbean countries, particularly the LDCs, CDB's role and lending policies
toward the tourism sector will need to be reviewed in the following areas:
(a)  Firstly, the policy that has tended to favor small and nationally
owned establishments against larger hotels and hotels that have
some foreign participation: while CDB should continue encouraging
small, locally owned establishments that it considers viable,
there is no market, financial or economic rationale not to finance
larger hotels. Furthermore, given the capital needs of hotels,
barring foreign private investments does not appear to be justified.
Large hotels achieve economies of scale and can better cater to a
market increasingly dominated by charters; they can better support
the investments that may be required in recreational and other



71 -
ANNEX 4
amenities; they appear to have a greater impact on employment and
foreign exchange earnings and they are better suited to use more
intensively the investments already made in infrastructure and
agriculture. Barbados, for example, has recently shifted to
encouraging the building of larger hotels because it has concluded
that the economic impact of such units is more favorable. CDB's
current policy has meant that its Projects Department has had to
enter the tourism sector with its hands tied and is unable to use
hard financial and economic criteria to judge the merits of a
proposal.
(b) Secondly, there is a need to review CDB's role in promoting invest-
ments in the area in such a way that it does not bring unnecessary
competition between islands and allows for improving linkages
between tourism and other sectors. CDB may also be able to en-
courage tourism promotion to be done on a regional basis, thereby
either reducing total promotional costs or providing this service
to islands that cannot afford it, or both.
10.       On the assumption that CDB's policies are changed to allow it to
play a more active role in the tourism sector, the first need is to draw up
a sound tourism investment program taking into account the several markets
that are to be served. Such a program would have to take account not only
of the inherent attractions and market demand for the islands, but also of
the investments already made in infrastructure, agriculture, etc. A starting
point would be the economic reports prepared recently by the Bank. Further,
project ideas could come from the governments themselves, and from work being
done within the CG.
11.       To draw up the investment programs mentioned above, would require
the employment of consultants. The World Bank could assist in both review-
ing CDB's tourism lending policies and reviewing the work on a tourism
investment program. If the resources needed to finance specific investment
proposals are large, as they are likely to be in some instances, the Bank
could also explore ways in which these resources could be raised. Because
CDB's one staff member resigned to the tourism sector, is expected to
retire in about two years, a proper replacement for him should be provided
as soon as possible, to allow him adequate time for training and to give
immediate help in the preparation of the investment program. Once this
program is drawn up, a judgement can be made on further expansion of the
tourism staff.



SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Selected tourism statistics
St. ltitta                                     Total                                 Trinidad
Anttaua     Domsinica     Crenedo_    Montaerrat        Nevin         St. Lucia     St. Vincent      LDCa       Barbados    J.atcca        6 TobaFo     Belire
Tourlst Arrivalo
000)                196C             55.8        10.0          23.2           6.2            9.8            22.7            12.5        140.1        115.7       258.5          91.7         N.A.
1969            61.3          8.2         29.3           7.5            11.8            25.4           15.6         159.3       134.3        276.9          94.5        NA.
1970            65.4         12.5         30.4           8.4            13.5           29.5            17.6         177.2       156.4        309.1          96.9        N.A.
1971            67.6         14.7         35.6           7.3            15.1            33.2           17.4         191.0       189.1        359.3         111.3        45.6
1972            72.3         15.3         37.9          11.5            16.2           42.4            17.0         212.6       210.4        407.8         114.6        50.4
1973            72.8         15.5         33.5          10.7            14.9           45.8            17.2         210.4       222.8        418.3         106.7        50.2
1974            69.9         17.1         14.7          10.8            13.3           51.8            20.8         198.4       230.7        433.0         125.1        47.7
1975            63.0         13.8         21.1          10.4            14.6            46.7           16.6         186.2       221.6        395.8         133.3        51.3
1976            57.2         15.6.        24.6          10.0            14.8           56.4            17.9         196.5       224.3        327.7         156.2        52.7
1977            68.3         16.7         28.5          10.9            15.4            70.1           19.4         229.3       269.3        264.9         163.2        55.0
1978 (eat.)     76.9         18.0         32.3          11.5            27.7            85.0           28.6         280.0       316.9        355.0          N.A.        N.A.
forettn Exchanse EArnings from Touris,
(ECS million)       1973             33.2        N.A.          18.7         N.A.             3.4            N.A.
1974     .      36.0         N.A.         11.2          N.A.             3.3           N.A.             5.0
1975            50.0         N.A.         17.4          N.A.             3.3           N.A.             6.8
1976            49.1         N.A.         18.1          N.A.             3.3           N.A.            12.5
1977            66.6         N.A.         27.5          N.A.             3.4           N.A.            14.7                     222.0         NA.
1978 (est.)     76.1         15.0         36.8          10.0            25.0           50.2            21.6         234.7       260.0        123.SLI
Total Export Earnints
(ECS million)       1977             89.4        N.A.          71.0         N.A.            45.1           109.1           41.6                                   921.5                               N
1978 (eat.)    102.1         N.A.         87.2          N.A.            47.8           123.7           47.0                                 1014.0
Tour,in as a Percentage of Total
1977             74%         N.A.           39.         N.A.                           N.A.             35%                      N.A.         N.A.
1978 (est.)      75%         N.A.          427.         N.A.                             41%            46%                        44%         12%
Average Lentth of Stay (days)           6.4                      10.0                           5.0                            8.0                       9.0          8.1
Sotal Led Capacity    1968            1.908         150           748           347             370            572             483                     5.360        6.614        2.606         N.A.
1973           2,527          492        1,848           508           1,030           2,948          1.021                     7,538       12.856         3,422       1.031
1978           2,444          348          878           612             916           2,380          1,086                    11,017       17.006          N.A.        1,507
Bed Occupancy Annual Rate
(Room) / (est.)                     (617.)        25%           32%          60%             25%           (70%)             50%                       64%        (42%)         N.A.          501
Total Visitor Arrivals for Whole of Caribbean ('000)
1970           3,717
1974           4,568
1975           4.452
1977           4.729                                                                                                                                                              A til
Fi: fgure expressed in USS



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
The Infrastructure Sector
Transportation
1.        An optimal regional transport system is an essential part of the
regional integration process. The two fundamental problems of the individual
CARICOM states--isolation and smallness--can be alleviated only by efficient
and reliable transport systems, by both sea and air. The LDCs in particular
will be dependent on efficient sea transport for encouraging industrial and
agricultural investment and developing merchandise trade, and an efficient
air transport for the development of tourism. There are several areas where
regional cooperation may be instrumental in improving intraregional and
extraregional transport services, and in reducing transport costs. Coordi-
nated planning of investment in physical facilities and equipment is urgently
needed in order to avoid duplication and over-investment and minimize operat-
ing transport costs.
2.        Transport factors do not now constitute a serious impediment to
economic growth, but several areas need improvement. Costs of transport are
not unreasonably high and, at this stage, generally only limited benefits
would accrue from major investments in new transport infrastructure.
3.        Improved maintenance is the highest priority for the transport
sector as a whole. A vast amount of sunken investment, in roads particularly,
is currently threatened by inadequate maintenance. Failure to address this
serious problem in the immediate future would result in a significant loss
of capital stock, and funds which could be used to build up the productive
sectors of agriculture, industry, and tourism would have to be diverted to
rebuilding the basic infrastructure.
4.        A second and related priority is to strengthen local institutions
and professional capabilities. Raising the absorbtive capacity of the trans-
port sector is often related more to correcting deficiencies in local public
sector financial and operational management than to deficiencies in capital
stock. In some cases, these deficiencies are the result of either inadequate
legislation or adequate legislation which has not been put into effect. In
many cases, there is a lack of adequate accounting systems for entities such
as ports and airports, resulting in unnecessary operational losses.
5.        The major issue in the area of ports concerns the ability of the
Caribbean countries to adjust economically and efficiently to containeriza-
tion. Many countries have their own deepwater port and want to continue to
enjoy direct service by major international steamship companies. The cost
to these carriers is high because of the low volumes; they have consequently
been reducing their total numbers of calls at Caribbean ports, relying instead
on tug and barge or smaller vessel feeder services to transport containers.
The West Indies Shipping Corporation (WISCO) has a clear role to fulfill for
these services and should be supported.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
6.        Capital investment in airport terminals and runways has been
relatively large in recent years and in general should be adequate for
most LDCs. Further developments should await significant growth in
tourist demand. However, improvements in communications and safety equip-
ment, as well as maintenance and operational procedures should be made.
Aircraft investment will continue to be required, since most of the air-
craft fleet for the various regional carriers is old. Methods of financial
accounting could also be improved to ensure the financial viability of the
aviation subsector.
7.        Each of the countries of the region is in need of some form of
technical assistance. Absorbtion of foreign capital has been seriously
constrained by inadequate ability to identify and prepare investment proj-
ects. Project implementation and future planning have also suffered from
low administrative and execution capability, due mainly to a shortage of
local personnel with appropriate qualifications, resulting in high dependence
upon foreign technical aid with limited results. Of equal importance is
the need to improve the functioning of local development-oriented institu-
tions and laws which are required for successful implementation of the
public sector investment program. External financing agencies in many cases
will have to provide funds not only for project management but also for
institutional management.
8.        CDB lending to the end of 1978 in the transportation sector has
totalled US$54.2 million, for roads (US$14.1 million), for ports (US$27.7
million), for airports (US$0.4 million), for sea transport (US$6.1 million),
and for air transport (US$5.9 million). This accounted for some 30% of CDB's
total lending.
9.        In general, the types of projects financed appeared to be justified.
Most road projects were for feeder roads tied to agricultural development
schemes and port projects were mostly to replace uneconomic lighterage sys-
tems. However, because there was no regional or country transportation sector
data available, it was not possible to judge the suitability of past projects
as aids to planned development. This lack of a sectoral basis for projects
is a serious deficiency in lending operations, particularly at the forward
planning and project identification stages. CDB should begin to collect
transportation sector data and prepare sector briefs on the basis of data
already available (recent Bank economic reports would provide an excellent
start). These sector briefs should establish a sectoral strategy and iden-
tify major deficiencies and weaknesses to be addressed in lending operations.
10.       It appears that the road system in most countries in the region is
adequate, except possibly for some new agricultural feeder roads. Improved
maintenance management and operations appear to be the highest priorities
and particular attention should be paid to these aspects. In addition to
financing the preparation of much needed long-term road maintenance programs,
the CDB can play a very valuable role in undertaking coordination of bilateral
and other lending in the region for periodic road maintenance works, technical
assistance and equipment. As for feeder roads, these should not be done as
separate road projects as at present, but as part of agricultural development
projects which would ensure that all elements of the scheme are carried
out in the proper sequence.



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
11.       For the next few years, investment in doepwater potis wiLl
probably be limited to relatively small capacity increases in existing
ports or items like RO-RO berths or container handling equipment.
12.       CDB has an important coordinating role for iegio  l air trans-
port probably through LIAT and other smaller regional carriers. Most
islands with large enough traffic potential, except Grenada and St. Vincent,
have airports with runways adequate for long-range flights. The transition
to wide body aircraft, however, will require airport terminal investments
but the timing of such investments will have to be studied carefully. CDB
does not have any engineering staff with air transport related experience
and therefore may need some assistance in this field.
Water Supply and Sewerage
13.       Institutional improvements in the various water and sewer insti-
tutions in the sector are one of the most important needs of the region.
The institutions' administration, management, finances, accounting, tariff
policies, planning and operations require assistance. In most cases, tariffs
are low and billing and collection inefficient resulting in inadequate revenue
and requiring government subsidies to meet deficits. Planning for expansion
by the local water authorities is practically on an ad hoc basis, done with
consulting firms, and often resulting in oversized projects, with little
regard for financial viability. Administrative and technical personnel are
in short supply.
14.       Studies of the sector are needed to help determine tariff policies
and planning by the member countries and CDB, and regional technical assis-
tance programs. The studies would provide up-to-date information on the
institutions, staffing, practices, policies and needs in the sector.
15.       Project preparation by the member countries needs improvement as
to selection, scope, cost estimates, and financial feasibility.
16.       To the end of 1978, CDB has made loans of US$6.8 million or 8.3X of
its infrastructural lending, for water supply projects. The deficiencies of
the local institutions have caused CDB staff to spend an inordinate amount
of time on providing advice to the institutions during the project prepara-
tion and execution stages. CDB appraisal reports have improved and now con-
tain better analyses of the situations, finances and the economic justifica-
tion. Attention is also being given to providing technical assistance to the
executing agency through the proposed loan. In the St. Lucia Second Water
Supply Project funds are provided for strengthening the water authority's
managerial, administrative and technical capabilities. This represents an
important development in the scope of the projects. In the future, the
projects could be extended to include financing of house connections.
17.       CDB plans to increase its lending in this sector to provide a
sound base for industrial development in the region. However, a sectoral
study needs to be carried out to determine the needs and priorities in the
sector. The PAHO has agreed to carry out a water supply sector study with a
view to identifying new projects for CDB and the organizational shortcomings
of the water supply agencies.



- 76 -
ANNEX 5
18.       In order to expand its lending in this sector, CDB will have to
take the initiative in helping the various institutions identify projects
and establish priorities. The CDB staff assigned to the sector should be
increased by one engineer and one financial-institutional analyst. There
should also be adequate provision for employing short-term consultants to
assist CDB staff in special problem areas. Bank staff will assist CDB
in project work and in establishing appropriate sectoral policies in accor-
dance with a work program to be agreed during loan negotiations.
19.       As far as sectoral policies are concerned, CDB should require
tariff structures that tend to make urban water systems self-supporting
and the rural water systems pay at least the costs of operation and main-
tenance. In order to implement this policy, CDB should provide technical
assistance to the executing agencies. CDB should also encourage the increase
in house connections and metering and the costs of these should be financed
as part of the project. Projects should be least-cost solutions, should be
properly staged, and should not exceed the capacity to pay of the benefi-
ciaries.
Energy 1/
20.       Caribbean countries, with the exception of Trinidad and Tobago,
are not importers of energy which is almost entirely in the form of petro-
leum. Known indigenous energy resources are small and unevenly distributed.
Income elasticities of energy demand are high which results in a faster
growth of energy imports than GDP. This makes balance of payments manage-
ment progressively more difficult as the economy expands. Energy imports
have, therefore, become a critical element in the countries' balance of
payments problems. Petroleum imports to the region quadrupled during 1972-77
mainly due to the quantum jump in international petroleum prices in 1973-74.
This raised petroleum's share of merchandise imports from less than 9% to
more than 20%. With the further increases in international petroleum prices
in early 1979, energy imports might preempt 25% of projected foreign exchange
earnings.
21.       The countries of the region -- again with the exception of Trinidad
and Tobago -- have some common characteristics which determine their energy
position. Among these characteristics are: (i) almost total dependence on
imported petroleum for meeting requirements of commercial energy; (ii) the
subcritical size of most energy systems which constrains the choice of least-
cost solutions; (iii) the absence of organized markets for indigenous fuels;
and (iv) the replacement of indigenous fuels by imported petroleum. The
pattern of energy demand, in turn, is largely influenced by the structure
and stages of economic development. The energy-importing countries can be
classified into: (i) relatively high energy-intensive economies with sig-
nificant mineral-based activities (Guyana, Jamaica); (ii) moderately energy-
intensive economies related to light industries, tourism and sugar refining
(Antigua, Barbados, Belize, St. Lucia); and (iii) low energy-intensive
agricultural economies (most Eastern Caribbean countries).
1/   See Bank Report No. 2511-CRB, Caribbean Energy Survey.



- 77 -
ANNEX 5
22.       The weak energy resource base has been aggravated by the absence
of appropriate energy policies. Government policies have not yet fully
adjusted to changes in the international energy situation as evidenced
by prices of energy which are well below their economic cost and by inade-
quate efforts to develop indigenous resources. Energy policies and admin-
istration are conducted among a number of government departments in an
uncoordinated, nonintegrated fashion which result in conflicting decisions
and delays in decision making. This has affected development planning
where energy-related objectives are rarely taken into account.
23.       Efforts to resolve the region's problems in the energy field
require:
(i) implementation of a rational energy pricing structure in order
to encourage the development of indigenous energy resources
and to encourage increased energy economy;
(ii) an improved administration for energy decision making involving
probably a single government institution responsible for energy;
(iii) high priority should be given to investment in power, resource
surveys and exploration, conversion of energy-consuming equipment,
etc.; and
(iv) regional approaches should be followed in developing least-cost
solutions, including the establishment of regional common services.
24.       CDB does not have the financial or staff resources to get involved
in large scale energy projects at this stage. However, it has recently started
lending to support power projects in some of the Caribbean countries. It has
made one US$3.6 million loan to the Government of Belize and is presently
considering the possibility of providing financial assistance to electricity
undertakings in Antigua, British Virgin Islands, Dominica, Guyana, Montserrat,
St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. The CDB does not clearly identify the objectives
of the expansion program and the project. Its power loans are designed to
finance physical components; institutional aspects are largely ignored.
Basically, CDB lacks the necessary experience for lending in this sector.
25.       In order to meet the needs of this important sector, CDB will have
to strengthen its staff with at least one power engineer and train its staff
dealing with power projects in the identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision of power projects. CDB is now revising its work program for the
participation of Bank staff in CDB power project work and the participation
of CDB staff in Bank power project missions as a first major step in this
training exercise. The Bank will be involved at the same time with CDB in
the development of a suitable policy for CDB for lending in the energy sector.



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CDB's Lending through Intermediaries
1.        A unique characteristic of CDB's operations is that a significant
portion of its lending is channelled through financial intermediaries in
the member countries. Since CDB's minimum lending limit for direct loans
is US$100,000 and it is committed to reach small borrowers, it has found it
necessary to work through these intermediaries.
2.        CDB's approved loans to the intermediaries from 1970 to 1978 are
shown in Table 1.
Table 1:  CDB's APPROVED LOANS TO INTERMEDIARIES (1970-78)
(in US$ million)
Ordinary     Special
Capital       Fund
Resources   Resources  Total   %
Agricultural credit                       8.6          17.8      26.4   53.0
Industrial credit                         5.4           5.0      10.4   21.0
Small Industry credit                      -            4.4       4.4    9.0
Housing (mortgage finance)                5.9            -        5.9   12.0
Student loans                              -            2.6      2.6    5.0
Total                               19.9          29.8     49.7  100.0
Total lending                            44.6         135.5    180.1
Intermediaries as % of total             45            22        28
As of December 31, 1978, CDB's cumulative loan approvals to intermediaries,
excluding industrial estates loans, amounted to US$49.7 million or 28% of
its total operations. If industrial estates loans of US$11.0 million were
included, the proportion would be 34%. Of US$49.7 million, US$29.8 million
or 60% of loans were financed by SFR, and the balance by OCR. The distinct
pattern of DFC lending is that all DFCs in LDCs, which are not creditworthy,
were the recipients of SFRs, which are not at CDB's risk. On the other hand,
DFCs in the MDCs and Belize were the recipients of OCR which are at CDB's
risk. About 50% of CDB's lending through DFCs is for agricultural credit.
Most of the agricultural loans are very small and are difficult to administer
directly. Industrial lending, primarily SSE operations, amounted to 30% of
DFCs' operations.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6
3.        CDB's experience.  CDB has so far not been as successful in
lending through these intermediaries as it wishes. This is due both to
the peculiar problems of these intermediaries and CDB's organizational
shortcomings. To understand the nature and the magnitude of the problems
facing CDB, it is essential to focus on: (i) CDB's lending through DFCs
in LDCs; (ii) CDB's lending through DFCs in MDCs; and (iii) CDB's organiza-
tional setup for DFC lending.
4.        Lending through DFCs in LDCs.  As of December 31, 1978 CDB's total
lending to 11 DFCs in LDCs amounted to US$25.0 million or 14% of total
operations. In the past, loans were made by CDB's three operating divisions
(agriculture, industry and infrastructure). Table 2 provides a list of
these DFCs and their major characteristics based on their 1977 proforma
accounts.
Table 2: LDCs DFC PROFILE
(US$ '000)
Ranking 1/      Long-Term      Profit
by Assets        D/E Ratio      (Loss)
1.  St. Lucia:  National Dev. Corp.        8,300             0.2           87
2.  Belize:  DFC                           7,300             4.2            59
3.  St. Vincent:  Dev. Corp.               1,900             N.M.           17
4.  Antigua:  Antigua & Barbuda
Dev. Bank                   1,595             2.1          (71)
5.  St. Lucia:  Agric. & Indust. Bank   1,300                2.2          (35)
6.  Montserrat:  Dev. Finance Corp.        1,039             1.1         (206)
7.  Dominica                                 936             3.0           42
8.  Grenada:  Agric. & Ind. Dev. Corp.    932                N.M.          (13)
9.  St. Kitts:  DFC                          825           214             (12)
10.  St. Vincent:  Agric. & Coop. Bank        278            24.4           (32)
11.  Turks & Caicos Islands:  Dev. Bank    162                 2.0           32
Total                           24,567
Most of the DFCs in the LDCs share the following characateristics:
(a) they are very small (excluding the DFCs in Belize and St. Lucia;
the average asset size is about US$1.0 million);
(b) they are poorly managed;
1/   Total assets.



- 80 -
ANNEX 6
(c) they are undercapitalized;
(d) they do not generate sufficient profits because of their
low interest rates and high administrative expenses in
relation to their size;
(e) their systems for financial control and portfolio monitoring
are generally inadequate.
5.        The above problems are structural and could not be resolved in
the short run, unless some drastic measures are taken. In addition, there
are a number of environmental problems. Most institutions are subject to
perennial political interference and therefore tend to lack autonomy in mak-
ing investment decisions. In the past, CDB has placed a lot of attention on
the final subborrowers but very little on the structural and institutional
problems of these intermediaries. The only successful DFC in this group is
the one in Belize. The principal reasons for its relatively better perfor-
mance are basically: (i) good general management; (ii) economies of scale
it has the largest DFC in the LDCs; (iii) good financial management and
credit control; and (iv) strong support from the government. It is still
only marginally profitable, but it has good prospects.
6.        The problems of DFCs have been extensively studied by a number of
agencies including CIDA, USAID and the World Bank 1/. CDB's management has
taken a number of actions to attack the above weaknesses of these DFCs.
First, in January 1979, CDB established a DFC section headed by an Assistant
Director in the Industry and Tourism Division as a part of its reorganization
plan. Under the new structure, all DFC lending and supervision activities
are placed under t-he Assistant Director for DFCs. CDB will be focusing more
on the institutional aspects of DFCs and looking at them as financial interme-
diaries rather than mere executing agencies. Second, the DFC section is
preparing a work program which will result in an action program for each DFC,
including measures on management changes, interest rates, the adequacy of
capital, technical assistance needs, and other institutional aspects. One
major recommendation is likely to be that CDB capitalize a DFC by making a
long-term loan on terms similar to IDA terms to the government which in turn
would make an equity investment in the DFC. The DFC then could lend from
CDB or other credit lines and keep its equity in liquid funds and improve its
earnings. This would eliminate the need for annual government subventions.
The mission concurs with CDB's strategy and recommends that the proceeds of
the proposed IDA credit be used for such a purpose. However, CDB would
need prior approval from IDA before making resources available for equity
investments. The IDF Division would assist CDB in this area.
1/   Industrial Development and Development Finance Companies in the Caribbean,
IBRD No. 2043-CRB dated May 8, 1978.



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
7.        Lending to DFCs in MDCs.  CDB has made loans amounting to about
US$20.0 million to intermediaries in MDCs from OCR. Six intermediaries in
four MDCs were the recipients, with Jamaica receiving the largest share.
As illustrated in Table 3, DFCs in Barbados, Guyana, and Trinidad and
Tobago incurred losses in 1976. Similarly, the Jamaica Development Bank
(JDB), the largest and oldest DFC in the Caribbean, is facing severe problems
due both to the adverse economic climate in Jamaica and its own institutional
problems.
Table 3: MDCs DFC PROFILE
(uS$ '000)
Ranking        Long-Term      Profit
by Assets       D/E Ratio      (Loss)
Jamaica
1.   Jamaica Development Bank               79,400           4.9         (3,800)
2.   Jamaica Mortgage Bank                  55,776           7.8            763
Trinidad and Tobago
3.   Agriculture Development Bank           13,127           1.7           (299)
Barbados
4.   Barbados Development Bank              16,000           3.7           (120)
Guyana
5.   Guyana Agricultural Coop. Bank          7,611            .7             (9)
6.   Guyana Coop. Mortgage Financ. Bank        798            -             (43)
Total                           172,712                       (3,508)
Average                          28,785
8.        CDB has provided JDB with an agricultural and industrial credit of
US$7.6 million, of which US$3.6 million was from the Bank loan and the balance
from VTF. Also, JDB has received two loans from the Bank for agricultural
credit. Because JDB considers CDB as an equal, CDB's ability to influence
institutional changes in JDB is likely to be limited. JDB is currently going
through a crisis caused by external factors and others of its own making.



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
About 98% of its portfolio is non-current. The devaluation of 37.5% in
April 1977, which had to be passed on to the subborrowers in most cases,
has further hampered the ability of JDB's borrowers to meet their finan-
cial obligations. Because of its low interest rate policy, JDB has not
been able to generate adequate surplus to build up reserves. JDB is now
being restructured. The Government has recently appointed a new Chairman,
a new Managing Director, and a new Board. An experienced commercial banker
has been employed by JDB in consultation with the Bank to carry out an action
program to put JDB on a sound footing. The Bank will work closely with CDB
on JDB.
9.        The DFCs in the MDCs are of a size that permits direct application
by CDB of the DFC lending techniques used by the Bank, but they are much
less receptive to taking advice from CDB than are the DFCs in the LDCs.
Furthermore, CDB, as might be expected, does not have the experience necessary
for dealing with severe institutional problems, such as the JDB is presently
experiencing. The IDF Division will be working closely with CDB in strengthen-
ing the DFCs in the MDCs. Actions have been taken to strengthen DFCs in
Barbados, Guyana, and Jamaica.



- 83 -
Armn,: 7
Toble I
CARTBPI'AN Dl '.YLOPMI:I BANc
Statement 3f Subscriptions of Capital Stuck and Voting Power
April 30, 1979
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL                                                      VOTIJ    POWER
Percent                       CALLABLE          PAID-UP        Number       Percent
M E M B E R                    Shares      of Total        Amount         CAPITAL          CAPITAL        of Votes      of Total
A.  REGIONAL STATES & TERRITORIES
Jamaica                              7,764        19.75        38,200,000      29,945,000       8,875,000       7,914         18.90
Trinidad 6 Tobago                    4,340        13.58        26,700,000      20,595,000       6,105,000       5,490         13.12
Bahamas                              2,288         5.82        11,440,000       8,825,000       2,615,000       2,438          5.82
Colombia                             2,080         5.29        10,400,000       8,025,000       2,375,000       2,230          5.33
Venezuela                            2,080         5.29        10,400,000       8,025,000       2,875,000       2,230          5.33
Guyana                               1,664         4.23         8.320,000       6,420,000       1,900,000       1,814          4.34
Barbados                             1,457         3.70         7,285,000       5,620,000       1,665,000       1,607          3.85
Antigua                                345          .88         1,725,000       1,330,000       - 395,000         495          1.18
Belize                                 345          .88         1,725,000       1,330,000         395,000         495          1.18
Dominica                               345          .88         1,725,000       1,330,000         395,000         495          1.18
Grenada                                345          .88         1,725,000       1,330,000        -395,000         495          1.18
St. Kitts - Nevis - Anguilla           345          .88         1,725,000       1,330,000         395,000         495          1.18
St. Lucia                              345          .88         1,725,000       1,330,000         395,000         495          1.18
St. Vincent                            345          .88         1,725,000       1,330,000         395,000         495          1.16
Montserrat                              87          .22           435,000          337,500         97,500
British Virgin Islands                  87          .22           435,000          337,500         97,500         498          1.19
Cayman Islands                          87          .22           435,000          337,500         97,500
Turks & Caices Islands                  87          .22           435,000          337,500         97,500
NON-REGIONAL STATES
Canada                               6,940        17.65        34,700,000      26,775,000       7,925,000       ?,o90         16.93
United Kingdom                       6,940        17.65        34,700,000      26,775,000       7,925,000       7,090         16.93
39,316       100.00       196,580,000    151,665,000    44,915,000         41,866        100.00
ADDITIONAL SUBSCRIPTION 2/
Colombia                                                        1,500,000         750,000         750,000
Venezuela                                                       1,500,000          750,000        750,000
3,000,000       1,500,000      1,500,000
Totals in 1969 US dollars                                         199,580,000    153,165,000    46,415,000
Totals in current US dollars
(rounded)                                                     240,700,000    184,700,000    56,000,000
1/ Includes increase io capital authorized by Board of Coverniors resolution No. 3 of April 1979.
2/ Represents a premium owl initial subscription of share capital of these two countries.
Junt( 1979
LCPII



Annex 7
-84-                       Table 2
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Statement of Capital Stock
Authorized      Subscribed      Callable      Paid Up
Position as of December 31, 1978
Number of shares                         38,400.0         31,027.0        25,857.0      5,670.0
Value in 1969 $ (millions)                  192.0             155.1          126.8         28.4
Value in current $ (millions)               231.6             187.1          152.9         34.2
Additional Subscriptions
Value in 1969 $ (millions)                                      3.0            1.5          1.5
Value in current $ (millions)                                   3.6            1.8          1.8
Increase approved in April 1979
Number of shares                          8,289.0          8,289.0         4,976.0      3,313.0
Value in 1969 $ (millions)                   41.4              41.4           24.9         16.6
Value in current $ (millions)                50.0              50.0           30.0         20.0
Current (1979) Position-
Number of shares                         46,689.0         39,316.0        30,333.0      8,983.0
Value in 1969 $ (millions)                  288.4             196.6          151.7         44.9
Value in current $ (millions)               281.6             237.1          182.9         54.2
Value including additional Subscriptions
in current $ (millions)                                    240.7           184.7         56.0
Note: The authorized capital stock of CDB is designated in United States dollars of the
weight and fineness in effect on September 1, 1969. Since the effectiveness on April 1,
1978 of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary
Fund, currencies no longer have par values in terms of gold. CDB has not yet taken a
decision on the implications of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and has
translated its capital stock into current United States dollars at the rate of 1.206348
current United States dollars per 1969 dollar.
June 1979
,I fD Tl



ANNEX 8
-85 -
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Board of Governors
(as at November 12, 1979)
H.E. A.D. Hanna                           Bahamas                         Chairman
Hon. Crosbie                              Canada                          Vice-Chairman
Dr. L. Diae Bruzual                       Venezuela                       Vice-Chairman
Country                                  Governor                      Alternate
Antigua                          Hon. John Eugene St. Luce,         Mr. A. Guishard
Minister of Finance               Budget Director
Ministry of Finance
Bab2nas                          Hon. A.D. Hanna                    Mr. T. Donaldson
Deputy Prime Minister and         Governor
Minister of Finance             Central Bank of the
Bahamas
Barbados                         Hon. H.B. St. John                 Mr. L.V.H. Lewis
Deputy Prime Minister and         President
Minister of Caribbean Affairs, Barbados National Bank
External Trade and Industry
Belize                           H.E. Mr. V.H. Courtenay            Mr. G.R. Graham
Minister without Portfolio and   Head, Planning Unit
Ambassador to CARICOM             Ministry of Economic
Planning
CT-nada                          Hon. John Crosbie                  Mr. Michael Dupuy
Minister of Finance               President
Canadian International
Development Agency
Colombia                         Sr. Dr. Jaime Garcia Parra         Sr. Dn. Rafael Gama
Minister of Finance               General Manager
Banco de la Republica
Dominica                         Hon. Michael Douglas               Mr. A. Lazare
Mipister of Finance and           Financial Secretary
Development
Grenada                          Hon. Bernard Coard                 Mr. L.F. Wilson, Jr.
Minister of Finance, Trade and   Permanent Secretary
Industry                          (Finance)
Guyana                           Hon. F.E. Hope                     Mr. H.E. Wilkinson
Minister of Finance               Secretary to the
Treasury
Jamaica                          Hon. Eric Bell                     Mr. H.G. Barber
Minister of Finance and           Financial Secretary
Planning



-86 -                           ANNEX 8
Country                                 Governor                          Alternate
Montserrat                )
British Virgin Islands   )       Hon. Willard Wheatley              Hon. J. Osborne
Cayman Islands            )      Chief Minister, B.V.I.             Chief Minister,
Turks and Caicos Islands )                                            Montserrat
Sr. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla         Hon. C.E. Mills                    Hon. Lee Moore
Minister of Finance               Premier
St. Lucia                        Hon. Alan Louisy                   Hon. M. Pilgrim
Prime Minister and                Minister of State,
Minister of Finance               Prime Minister's Office
St. Vincent                      Hon. R.M. Cato                     Vacant
Prime Minister and Minister
of Finance
Trinidad & Tobago                Dr. the Hon. Eric E. Williams    Hon. George Chambers
Prime Minister and Minister       Minister of Industry and
of Finance                      Commerce, Agriculture,
Lands and Fisheries
United Kingdom                   Hon. Neil Marten                   Mr. E.C. Burr
Minister for Overseas             Under-Secretary
Development                     Ministry of Overseas
Ministry of Overseas                Development
Development
Venezuela                        Dr. L. Diaz Bruzual                Dr. A. Aguiar
President                         Director General for
Venezuela Investment Fund            International Coopera-
tion, Ministry of
External Affairs.
November 1979
LCPII



- 87 -                         ANNEX 9
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMNT BANK PROJECT
Board of Directors and voting groups
(as at November 12, 1979)
Chairman: Mr. W.G. Demas
President
Country or GrouD of
Regional                             Alternate                       Countries Represented
Mr. H.G. Barber                   Mr. A. Elliot                      Jamaica
Mr. U. Baksh                      Vacant                             Trinidad and Tobago
Mr. D. Augustin                  Mr. W. Murray                       Guyana
Mr. S. Emtage                    Mr. H. Williams                     Barbados
Mr. W. Rolle                     Mr. E.A. Marshalleck                Bahamas and Belize
Mr. A. Lazare                    Vacant                              Dominica, Grenada,
St. Lucia and
St. Vincent
Mr. A. Guishard                  Mr. K. Cassell                      Antigua, St. Kitts-
Nevis-Anguilla,
Montserrat, Bri.tsh
Virgin. Islands, Cayman
Islands, Turks and
Caicos Islands.
Dr. J.V. Mogollon                Mr. A.L. Forero                     Colombia
Dr. R. Guarnieri                 Mr. A. Torres                       Venezuela
Non-Regional
Mr. J. Toller                     Mr. S. Free                        Canada
Mr. J.C. Edwards                  Miss A. Archbold                   United Kingdom
November 1979
LCPI1



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
(Bs of 511/79)
STAFF
P-of.sioni                58
Undor T.cFnkaI _illc    16
SwY-l                    74 
S..pocli.g                72
To.l                   1_46
ICPII
AWn. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~0M0IOi.
U. G. Moom k %-d Genetel CounwW                                                                                                                                  2N4bV
Admimtatipr       Ea7homicsnd                      ~~~~~~~Fi -   mm                       L%dDm i                                                                                 Prme-                     S.g,-OV
;nd Se;reas v~ ~ ~             R.og   mmi; De7vme-             U    D.-=.   ` J                        Miwt. N. ell                                                a4mtM     u7
ip,~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                 ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L, ut  ff-Wll DV   e- ll  W9   D   S.""ll ZrortDe  
X  *                        s                                                       |      Agecultws                        /trV & DFCtI                          llnrastlteswel                       di Al IV "' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&DFc.
l                                                   |     Dr B Ylmsev                        Ml . J de Fonka                        Uw O Yh p                          Mf d >X  |~~~~~~~~WI 
| AEE 1             Ai-;                                A.WAsi.,|         A.i.I In     I   Am.                                                                 A-           IA-- 011-[!t 1   ;7                
|   {dmn      ||   l   Esl    |IvF'K  -'  ||   f US'Ro   ||       At     ||  MF    d |          MA            | |M  A  u    VkI|      EiSm  l|    CR  h    ||                      If C.   Di-                                           |M    E & 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~             ~~~~                                                   ~~~~WR Bn A2D457pi"



- 89 -
Annex 1i
Table 1
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Status of the two Bank loans
(as of July 15, 1979)
A. 1233-CRG - US$17.0 million
1.  Loans signed by CDB and authorized by the World Bank:
US$ million
(1)  Jamaica Development Bank (Agriculture)                    3.6
(2)  Jamaica - Ocho Rios/Tourism                               0.6
(3)  Barbados Industrial Estate/Industry                       2.6
(4)  Belize - DFC/Industry                                     0.5
(5)  British Virgin Islands - Wickham Cay/Tourism              0.4
(6)  Guyana - Agricultural Credit                              1.5
(7)  Bahamas - Bahamas Development Bank/Industry               2.3
(8)  Turks and Caicos Islands - AIRTAC Project/Tourism         13.4
(9)  Guyana - Upper Demerara Highway Project                   5.1
Total                                                  17.0
July 1979
LCPIl



90 -
Annex ti
Table 1
B. 1234-CRG - Third Window Loan - US$3.0 million
1.  Loan signed by CDB but awaiting U.K. certificate             US$ million
(1)  St. Lucia - Mortgage Finance                                0.25-/
2. Loans approved by CDB's Board but not yet signed
(2)  Montserrat - Electricity Generation                         0.68
(3)  St. Kitts - Port Project                                    1.00-
(4)  Antigua - Sugar Development                                 1.07
Total                                                       3.00
Sectoral Breakdown of both Loans
Number    Amount    x
Agriculture                              3         6.17   30.9
Industry                                 3        5.40   27.0
Tourism                                  3         1.40    7.0
Infrastructure                           4        7.03   35.1
Total                                   13        20.00  100.0
1/ This loan was signed after St. Lucia became independent.  St. Lucia is
expected to become a Bank member in 1979.  If there is a delay, CDB would
increase the amount of the subloan in Antigua (Sugar Development) by
$250,000.
2/ The U.K. Government has asked the St. Kitts Government to make some modi-
fications in the required legislation to satisfy the Colonial Loan Acts.
June 1979
LCPIl



SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteristtcs of.Subloans Made in the First Operation
Amiount       Interest to                                     Lconomic       Financial          Grace         Repayment
Country          US$'000      Final Borrower                % Financirng          Return          Return          Period           Period          Sector                 Cn-mmer.ts
Cs( '.-.din.g
WicXhsn's Cay          BVI              400              8-1/2                     65%                10%             12%              5              12             Tourism
Dpper Demerara         Guyana         5,100              9                         707.               10%               -             10              15             Road/Agri
A1^. AC               Turks &
Caicos         400              10-1/2                    807.               -               16.              2               8             Transport
Cruise Ship Pier    Jamaica             600              8-1/2                     65%                65%               -              3              15             Transport            One year iat   ^-
overrun.
2nd Ind. Estate       Barbados        2,600              9                         657                 -                -              5              15             Industry             760 jobs to ba create.
Agr! Credit            Guyana         1,500              8                         65% 1!/             -                -              4              16             Agri. DFC
A;ri-Ir.d. Credit    Jamaica          3,600              7-1/4                     70% 1!              -                -              3              12             Agri./Ind. DFC       87% agri. _;. ir.ustry-
Agri-Ind. Credit    Bahamas           2,300              8-1/2                     70% 1/              -                -              4               8             Agri./Ind. rDFC    65,. agrt.         i.st:y-
A,;t-Ir.d. C:edit    Belize             500              8.0                       80% T/              -                -              5              15             Agri./Ind. DFC       50% agri. 5C1 industry.
Third Wir.dow Lending
Y'iortgage Finance   St. Lucia         300                                                                                                                          DFC
_lectricity          liontserrat       700              5-1/2                     80%               19%             19%               3-1/2          18-1/2         Power
Port                 St. Kitts    1,000                 5-1/2                     90%                8%               6/.             3-1/2          18-1/2         Transport                                      ID
Sugar                Antigua        1,000                                                                                                                           Agriculture
1/  X of subloan made by DFC.
June 1979
LCPI1
_ :4



- 92 -
Annex 12
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources-1/
Pipeline of Projects for 1979 and 1980
(As of June 1, 1979)
Board        Loan Amount
Project                        Country          Date          (US$ million)
INDUSTRY/TOURISM
1.  Bellevue North Hotel           Belize           August              0.5
2.  Dinger Hotel                   Belize           August              0.5
3.  Banks Brewery                  Guyana           August              4.0
4.  Seals and Packaging            Guyana           Auuust              5.3
5.  Brewery                        Bahamas          August              5.0
6.  Petit Trous Hotel              St. Lucia        August              0.7
7.  Industrial Estate              Belize           August              1.5
8.  Soap and Detergents            Guyana            1980               1.5
9.  Global Credit/Ind.             Guyana           1980                3.0
10.  Global Credit Ind.              Jamaica          1980               5.0
Subtotal                                                        27.0
INFRASTRUCTURE
1.  Electricity                    Montserrat        February           0.7
2.  Castleton- Water Supolies      Jamaica           June               3.6
3.  Kingston Water Supplies        Jamaica          August              5.0
4.  Electricity                     Guyana           August             5.9
5.  Power                           Barbados         1980               5.0
6.  Road Maintenance                Jamaica          1980               5.0
7.  Mortxage Finance               Jamaica          1980               1.0
Subtotal                                                          26.2
1/ CDB normally prepares an 18-month lending program and updates it every
two months. The above pipeline includes a few operations in Jamaica and
Barbados. However, it will be revised once the economic reports and the
project lists on the above countries are completed by the Caribbean Group.
June 1979
LCPII



-                     Annex 12
Board          Loan Amount
Project                         Country           Date          (US$ million)
AGRICULTURE
1.  Banana Development              Belize            December '78       0.9
2.  Sugar                           Antigua           April              3.0
3.  Fisheries                       Antigua           April              2.9
4.  Tapakuma Rice Irrigation        Guyana            June               4.0
Project
5.  Global Credit/Agriculture       Guyana            1980               5.0
6.  Dairy Development               Belize            1980               1.0
Subtotal                                                            16.8
Total                                                               70.0
1/ The loan was initially expected to be financed under IBRD I Loan.
June 1979
LCPIl



94 -                    Annex13
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Resource Position as of December 31, 1978
(in US$ million)
Sourcesl/
Paid-in Capital                                35.4
2/
Less: Receivable from member countries-         6.3
Net paid-in capital                                           29.1
Borrowings
World Bank                                     20.0
European Investment Bank                        4.1
Trinidad and Tobago                             5.0           29.1
Total Sources                                               58.2
Uses
Loans
Disbursed and outstanding                      22.0
Committed but undisbursed                      11.9
Secondary mortgage                              1.1
Total Uses                                                  35.0
Sources available for new commitments/liquidity               23.2
Loans approved but not committed                               3.8
Sources available for new approvals/liquidity                 19.4
1/ It is CDB's policy to keep liquid funds equal to two years of projected
disbursements.
2/ This is essentially an I.O.U. from the less developed member countries.
of CDB and the amount required to maintain the value of currency holding
in respect of the capital subscriptions.
June 1979
LCPIl



- 95 -
Annex 14
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Special Fund Resources
Resource Position as of December 31, 1978
(in US$ million)
Sources
Special Development Fund
USA                                 22.0
Germany                              9.0
United Kingdom                      13.9
Canada                              19.5
Colombia                             5.0
Venezuela                           10.0
New Zealand                          0.2
Total                                                        79.6
Other Special Funds
Agricultural Fund
USA                                 10.0
Canada                               7.3
17.3
Housing Fund
USA                                              8.4
Livestock
Canada                                           2.0
Counterpart Funds
Trinidad and Tobago                              4.2
Regional Agricultural business
USA                                              6.5
Inter-American Development Bank
Credit                                          12.0
Preinvestment funds                              0.5
Caribbean Development Facility                  20.0
70.9
Total                                                       149.9
Plus: accumulated surplus                                     5.3
Total sources                                               155.2
Less: approved loans                                        119.7
Resources available for new approval                         35.5
June 1979
LCPIl



Table I
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets,
1974 to 1978
(millions of Us$)
December 31                                 1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash and Investments                      15.0    12.3    22.0    23.5    31.0
Loans and Secondary Mortgage                3.6     9.9    16.7    24.6    23.1
Receivable from Members                     9.9    12.7     8.6      5.0     6.3
Other (net)                                0.2      0.7     1.2      2.2     2.5
Total Assets                         28.7    35.6    48.5    55.3    62.9
Borrowings                                  -       0.1    10.5    13.9    18.6
Capital and Reserves                      28.7    35.5    38.0    41.4    44.3
Total Liabilities and Capital        28.7    35.6    48.5    55.3    62.9
SDF Operations
Cash and Investments                      11.7    1915    25.5    25.9    26.7
Loans and Secondary Mortgages             --2-.4 ---19.4 W    30.0- --42.1-   61.9
Resources available from Contributors        -      8.1     7.0      6.0    -6.8
Other (net)                                 _       0.8     0.2     0.2      0.7
Total Assets                         14.1    47.8    62.7    74.2    96.1
Contributed resources                     13.6    46.2    59.3    69.5    90.1
Reserves                                   0.5      1.6     3.4      4.7     6.0
Total liabilities and reserves          14.1    47.8    62.7    74.2    96.1
Venezuelan Trust Fund
Cash and Investments                        -       1.6     4.1      7.5    12.7
Loans                                        -       -      3.7      6.7     7.9
Other (net)                                          -      0.1     0.3      0.6
Total Assets                                   1.6     7.9    14.5    21.2
Contributions                                       1.6     7.8    14.1    20.3
Reserves                                             -      0.1      0.4     0.9
Total liabilities and reserves                    1.6     7.9    14.5    21.2
June 1979
LCPI1



Annex  15
Table 2
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Suimmarized Statements of Income
1974 to 1978
(millions of US$)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Ordinary Capital Resources
Income from loans and mortgages          0.2      0.5     1.1     1.6     2.0
Income from short-term lnvestments       1.4     1.2      1.1     1.9     1.7
Other                                     -                -      0.3     0.1
Total Income                           1.6     1.7     2.2      3.8     3.8
Financial expenses                        -      0.1      0.2     0.9     1.7
Administrative expenses                  0.6      0.5     0.5     0.4     0.2
Total expenses                         0.6     0.6      0.7     1.3     1.9
Net Income                               1.0      1.1     1.5     2.5     1.9
SDF Operations
Income from loans and mortgages          0.1     0.4      1.0     1.4     1.9
Income from short-term investments       0.5     1.5      2.1     2.0     1.9
Total Income                           0.6     1.9     3.1      3.4     3.8
Charges on contributions                  -       0.3     0.3     0.6     0.9
Administrative expenses                  0.2      0.7     1.0     1.4     1.7
Total Expenses                         0.2     1.0     1.3      2.0     2.6
Net Income                               0.4      0.9     1.8     1.4     1;2
Venezuela Trust Fund Operations
Income from loans                                         0.1     0.5     0.6
Income from short-term investments                        0.2     0.3     0.7
Total Income                                            0.3     0.8     1.3
Commissions on short-term placements  /
Net Income                                              0.3     0.8     1.3
Aount. less than US$100,000 equivalent in each year.
LCPI1



Annex 16
- 98 -                  Table l
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources
Forecast Statement of Income and Expenses
1979 - 1983
(thousands of US$)
1979      1980       1981        1982       1983
Income From
Cash deposits                   400       181        195         186        189
Short-term investments       2,484      2,680      2,720       2,519      2,424
Loans                         2,125     2,728      3,969       6,008      8,638
Commitment fees                 135       230        392         548        683
Secondary mortgages            100        140        180         220        260
Receivable from members          57        40         40          40         40
Total Income            5,302      6,000      7,496      9,522      12,234
Expenses
Cost of borrowing:
Short-term                    944       900        700         700        700
Long-term                     904     1,331      1,988       2,968      4,533
Commitment fees               147       139        195         264        254
Administrative expenses       1,150     1,510      1,830       2,220       2,580
Total Expenses              3,145     3,880      4,713       6,152      8,06j
Net Income                      2,157      2,120     2 783       3,370       4,166
July 1979
LCPIl



Annex 16
- 99 -                      Table 2
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources
Forecast Balance Sheets
(1979-83)
(million of US$)
December 31                    1978 -   1979       1980     1981      1982     1983
Cash                              9.8      3.5       3.7      4.1       3.4      4.2
Investments                   21.3      33.5     36.6      34.6      31.2     32.0
Loans-net                     22.0      26.7      35.9     54.8      82.2    115.5
Second mortgages               1.0       1.5      2.0       2.5       3.0      3.5
Receivables from Members          6.3      5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6      5.6
Other Receivables                 2.2      2.2       2.2      2.2       2.2      2.2
Fixed Assets                     0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8
Total Assets                  63.4      73.8      86.8    104.6    128.4    163.8
Short-term borrowings           10.3      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0
Long-term Borrowings              8.8     12.9      19.6     30.7      47.1     74.3
Total liabilities             19.1      22.9      29.6     40.7      57.1     84.3
Paid-up capital               35.4      39.9     44.0      48.0      52.0     56.0
Retained Earnings and
Reserves                     8.9      11.0     13.2      15.9      19.3     23.5
Total Capital                 44.3      50.9      57.2     63.9      71.3     79.5
Total Liabilities and
Capital                       63.4      73.8      86.8    104.6    128.4    163.8
1/ Actual
July 1979
LCPIl



Annex 16
- 100 -                      Table 3
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources
Forecast Cash Flow
1979-1983
(millions of US$)
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983
Sources of Funds
Net income from operations               2.2      2.1       2.8      3.4       4.2
Loan repayments                          1.6      1.8       2.2      3.2       5.9
Short-term borrowing                    10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0
Long-term borrowings                     4.1      6.7      11.3     16.8      27.8
Shareholders payments for
capital subscriptions                  5.2      4.1       4.0      4.0       4.0
Total Sources                        23.1      24.7     30.2      37.4     51.9
Uses of Funds
Disbursements on loans                   6.3     1049--   21.1      30.6      39.2
Increase in second mortgages             0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5
Maturing current borrowing              10.3     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0
Maturing long-term borrowing              -        -        0.2      0.3       0.6
Total Uses                            17.1     21.4      31.8     41.5     50.3
Increase in cash and investments
during year                              6.0      3.3      -1.6     -4.1       1.6
Balances end of years
Cash                                     3.5      3.7       4.1      3.4       4.2
Investments                             33.5     36.6      34.6     31.2      32.0
37.0     40.3      38.7     34.6      36.2
July 1979
LCPI1



- 101 -
ANNEX 17
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Assumptions used in Financial Projections
Ordinary Capital Resources
A.   Lending Operations
1.        Projected operations were prepared by CDB incorporating Bank staff
comments. The projected operations take into account CDB's projected pipeline,
the improved capacity of CDB to identify, prepare and appraise projects, and
the more favorable economic outlook in the Caribbean than in recent years.
These figures were classified by sector (i.e. agriculture, industry, housing,
infrastructure, tourism and other) taking into account CDB's lending experience
and its strategy to increase lending in certain sectors. Lending was further
subdivided into direct and indirect re:DFC lending on the following basis:
Agriculture               60% direct,  40% indirect
industry                  70% direct,  30% indirect
Housing                   20% direct,  80% indirect
Infrastructure           100% direct,   -
Tourism                   80% direct,  20% indirect
Other (student loans)      -        , 100% indirect
2.        Projected approvals for the various sectors are given below:
Projected Approvals - Ordinary Resources, 1979-1983
(in millions of US$)
1979     1980    1981    1982    1983
Agriculture      6         8       10       12      14
Industry         7         7        8        8       9
Housing          2         3        3        4       5
Infrastructure  12        13       13      14       15
Tourism          4         4        5        5       5
Other            2         3        3        3       2
33       38       42       46      53



ANNEX 17
3.        It is assumed that 30% of approvals will be committed in year 1,
50% in year 2, and the balance in year 3. The lag between CDB Board approval
and loan commitment, which is caused by the delays in obtaining local gov-
ernment approvals, guarantees, is reasonable in this type of lending. For
IDA financed projects approvals are expected to be committed 50% in year 1
and 50% in year 2.
4.        The disbursement pattern of loans committed is according to CDB
experience and is as follows:
Year
Sector               1         2        3        4      5
Agriculture                5%      25%       30%     25%    15%
Industry                  7%       28%       50%     15%      -
Housing                    5%      35%       40%     20%      -
Infrastructure           15%       40%       35%     10%      -
Tourism                    5%      35%       40%     10%    10%
Other                     8%       25%       25%     25%    17%
5.        The repayment terms of loans in the various sectors reflect
current CDB policy and is as follows:
Repayment
Grace Period      Interest Rate
Period    (%)
(Years)    (Years)
Agriculture          Direct             4         10      9
DFCs               4         10     8.5
Industry             Direct             3         12    10.5
DFCs               3         12     8.5
Housing              Direct             3         12      9
DFCs               3         12     8.5
Infrastructure       Direct             3         10      9
DFCs               3         10     8.5
Tourism              Direct             4         14    10.5
DFCs               4         14     8.5
Other                Direct             3         10      9
DFCs               3         10     8.5
6.        Second mortgages are expected to yield 8.5% and will increase
by US$0.5 million a year.



- 103 -
ANNEX 17
B.   Return on Cash and Short-term Investments
7.        The rate of return on cash is assumed to be 6% in 1979 and 5%
per annum in the years 1980 to 1983. This is a low figure and reflects
that share of cash not available for investment but used in day-to-day
operations. The rate of return on investments is expected to be 8.3% in
1979 reflecting current conditions and 7.5% per annum thereafter. This
is reasonable given IBRD's and CDB's past experiences.
C.   Capital Stock
8.        Recently, CDB's Board of Governors approved an increase in the
capital stock of US$50.0 million of which US$20.0 million will be paid in
cash over five years, the rest being callable capital. Non-borrowing
members will pay their portion of the paid-up shares in five equal annual
amounts; borrowing members will also pay over a five-year period, half
their portions of paid-up shares in cash and half in non-interest bearing
notes which will come due in the following year. The situation will be as
follows after the recent increase in capital stock:
Authorized   Subscribed   Callable   Paid-up
Number of shares    46,689         39,316       30,333      8,983
Value in current        281.6         237.1         182.9      54.2
US$ (million)
Additional
Subscriptions            -              3.6          1.8        1.8
281.6        240.7         184.7       56.0
CDB borrowing is limited to the callable capital of Canada, the United Kingdom,
Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela - or US$100.0 million on the basis of the
above callable capital.
D.   Administrative Expenses
9.        Administrative expenses are forecast to grow in accordance with
total loans approved (excluding CDF operations which are basically local cost
financing related to other projects) plus 8% a year for inflation. Staff
costs covered by technical assistance grants are forecast to grow at the
same rate. Total CDB expenses were allocated amongst the various funds,
two-thirds on the basis of annual loan approvals and one-third on the basis
of accumulated loan approvals. This reflects the relative share of staff time



- 104 
ANNEX 17
spent on loan preparation and appraisal (approvals) and on supervision (accumu-
lated approvals). 1/ Administrative expenses were allocated as follows:
Fund                 1979     1980      1981    1982    1983
(in US$ million)
Ordinary Capital
Resources              1.15      1.51     1.83      2.22    2.58
Soft Funds                1.12      1.40     1.66      1.95    2.43
Trust Fund                0.13      0.19     0.26      0.28    0.39
2.40     3.10      3.75     4.45    5.40
Financial Projections
10.       Based on the above assumptions as to future operations and existing
historical conditions (balance sheet position at the end of 1978, loan com-
mitments at that date, etc.) forcasts were made of CDB's OCR finances using
a financial model developed by the Bank's Programming and Budgeting Department
and CDB. The specific program is available in CDB for their financial projec-
tions and the program has been adapted to a more generalized form for use by
the IDF Divisions in the Bank.
Special and Other Development Funds
A.  Lending Operations
11.       Lending operations for soft funds were forecast by CDB and revised
by Bank staff in the same way as for ordinary capital resources. Because of
the greatly expanded lending program forecast for OCR, Special and Other
Development Funds or Soft Fund (SDF) operations will tend to be concentrated
more than formerly in the LDCs. On the basis of forecast approvals, loan
commitments and disbursements of soft funds were calculated on the basis of
recent CDB experience. Loan approvals are made effective (i.e. committed)
50% in the year of approval and 50% in the following year. Committed loans
are disbursed as follows:
Year                 %
1                  12.5
2                  30.0
3                  32.5
4                  20.0
5                   5.0
100%
1/   The calculation of CDB's administrative expenses to be reimbursed by IDA
for its onlending of IDA and EEC funds was a separate exercise which
is contained in the project file for reference.



- 105 -
ANNEX 17
On this basis approvals, commitments and disbursements were as follows:
(US$ millions)
__________________   1979     1980      1981      1982      1983
Approvals
Normal                       23.0      25.0     28.0      31.0      35.0
IDA and EEC                    -        4.0      4.0       4.0       4.0
Caribbean Development
Facility 1/                  17.0      17.0      8.0        -         -
40.0     46.0      40.0      35.0      39.0
Commitments
Normal                       28.7      24.0     26.5      29.5      33.0
7DA and EEC                    -        2.0      4.0       4.0       4.0
Caribbean Development
Facility                     15.3      20.0     12.0       4.0        -
44.0     46.0      42.5      37.5      37.0
Disbursements
Normal                       22.9      25.3     27.1      26.8      27.8
IDA and EEC                    -         .3      1.1       2.3       2.9
Caribbean Development
Facility                     15.3      20.0     12.0       4.0        -
38.2     45.6      40.2      33.1      30.7
1/   Caribbean Development Facility is a special operation which does not
follow the formula described above and was therefore treated separately.
US$20 million was approved for the CDF in 1978 and a further US$20 million
authorized for 1979. It was assumed that a final US$20 million would
be approved for 1980 for local cost financing through the CDF after
which such support would no longer be required.
12.       Loans were assumed to be made at 4% (CDB's current interest rate for
soft funds) with repayment in 18 years after a five-year grace period.
B.   Return on Investments and Interest Rates on Loans
13.       The rate of return on investments is expected to be 7.5% a year,
1979 through 1983. The interest rate on loans is in accordance with current
policy, i.e. 4%.



- 106 -
ANNEX 17
C.   Administrative Expenses
14.       Administrative expenses were calculated as described in paragraph 9
above.
D.   Financing Plan
15.       The financing plan is based on known pledges and information on
other prospective lenders supplied by CDB.
Trust Fund Operations
A.   Lending Operations
16.       Lending operations were also forecast by CDB and revised by Bank
staff. As the basis of forecast approvals, trust fund loan commitments and
disbursements were calculated on the same assumptions as for soft fund loans.
On this basis, approvals, commitments and disbursement forecasts are as
follows:
(US$ millions)
1979     1980      1981      1982     1983
Approvals             3.0       4.0       5.0      6.0       7.0
Commitments           3.1       3.5      4.5       5.5       6.5
Disbursements         1.9       2.9       2.7      3.1       4.0
B.   Return on Investments and Interest Rates on Loans
17.       The rate of return on investments is expected to be 7.5% a year.
The interest rate on loans was in accordance with current policy - 8%, 3/4%
commitment fee.
C.   Administrative Expenses
18.       At present CDB is allowed to collect a service charge of 3% of the
amount of loans made with the use of VTF resources. This is not sufficient
to cover CDB's estimated costs of administering the Fund and CDB plans to
terminate the VTF operation. The trust fund's share of CDB's administrative
expenses (see para. 9 of this Annex) have been fully allocated to trust fund
operations.



- 107 -
ANNEX 17
D.   Financing Plan
19.        In order to provide sufficient funds to finance loan approvals
through 1983, the trust ftnd will need additional contributions of about
US$13 million equivalent to be pledged by end 1981. A pledge of US$15 million
was assumed, US$13 million of which would be drawn down in 1982 and 1983
to cover approvals in those years.
E.   Financial Projections
20.        Based on the above assumptions, forecast statements of income and
expenses, cash flow and balance sheets were estimated by Bank staff. They
are in project files.



- 108 -                            ANNEX 18
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan and Credit
Cumulative disbursements
at end of the quarter
(US$ thousands)
IBRD Fiscal Year            Quarter ending                 Bank loan IDA Credit  EEC Credit
1980                   March 31, 1980                      100          -
June 30, 1980                       400         -           -
1981                   September 30,.1980                  900         50         60
December 31, 1980                 1,500       100         160
March 31, 1981                    2,300       250         300
June 30, 1981                     3,300       400        460
1982,                  September 30, 1981                4,500       600         640
December 31, 1981  -              5,900       800         780
March 31, 19&32                   7,300     1,000        900
June 30, 1982                     8,800     1,350       1000
1983                   September 30, 1982               10,500     1,800
December 31, 1982                12,400     2,400
March 31, 1983                   14,400     2,900
June 30, 1983                    16,500     3,500
1984                   September 30, 1983               18,500     4,200
December 31, 1983                20,000     5,100
March 31, 1984                   21,300    5,800
June 30, 1984                    22,000     6,300
1985                   September 30, 1984               22,700     6,700
December 31, 1984                23,000     7,000
LCPIl
October 1979



- 109 -                     Annex 19
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Project Profile
1. SFR - Balance Sheet, income statement, cash flow projections 1979-83;
2. VTF - Balance sheet, income statement, cash flow projections 1979-83;
3. CDB Policies and Procedures Manual;
4. CDB statement of lending and investments policy;
5. CDB's Charter;
6. Industry and Tourism Policy Paper BD31/79;
7. Calculation of IDA reimbursement payments (memo from Mr. Ardito-Barletta to
Mr. E. Stern of August 7, 1979);
8. IBRD Report No. 2043-CRB "Industrial Development and Development Finance
Companies in the Caribbean", May 1978;
9. IBRD Report No. 2501-CRB "Industrial Investment Incentives in the Caribbean",
May 1979;
10. IBRD Report No. 2064-CRB "Regional Agricultural Development and Food
Production in the Caribbean", May 9, 1978;
11. IBRD Report No. 2511-CRB "Caribbean Energy Survey";
12. Report by Gerald Alter - "A Proposal for a Caribbean Industrial Finance
Facility for Small Scale Enterprises', February 1979;
13. CDB - Guidelines for Procurement (2nd Rev. September 1976);
14. CDB - Guidelines for Choice of Consultants (2nd Rev. September 1974); and
15. CDB - Special Development Fund Rules.






I B R D 10611 R
-~~                         ci ~~~o                                                                                                                          MAUCIS 1A791FtAN
THE CARIBBEAN AREA
Si.~~~~~O                                                          CACOM Members
FRWNEW        ALNTIIFGU   Caribbean Development Bansk Memnbers
GU   F  OF fM4EXICO 02
CATI                     ---~~~_nternational Boundaries
ANDROSI.  70,  6  DRWAISJNCIeL                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~100 50  0  5OD    200  300    AC0
~~~Z:t   ONRI. ~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
~c        2:                  f        iR AYJO                                       O  10    0I?   290  300  400  500  600
'V   \  Li ~~~~~~~~      ACKL4SS.          CACOS r.                                      KLMTR
REPUELIC                    0~~~~uA.T . A   A/  TSL
JAMAICA~                                                           PUERTO RICO         _T        ATIU
___LIZ                                                                                                                                       MONTSERRAT
N  /                                                                                                                   .-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GVADE OUSPR
)GUATE MALA  -'DOMINfCA
HOND RASMARTINIQUE
~~~   *~~~~0  ,-*-                 C     A     R     I    B      B    E  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    N  SE A                             JST.IUCIA
K"'ICARAGUA                                                                                    ARIJRA                                 TVNET,             ARA0
P   A   CIFIC                                                                                                               CUHlAAD                                      RBENADA
OCEAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~JB0~~~~~~,SNAIFRE
lost  tr7j    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~74                                              >~~~~~~~~                        <~~~~~RGARITA       627 I2!~~~~~~~~~~~~~5~GAT  ,J OBG
'4                                                                              C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  z ~~~~~~~~~-TRINIDAD
C,     PANAMA                                             'N
CARIFTA/CARICSIM DISTANCLS IN AIR ROUTE MIILES                                                                                                                                    ,0
9I  11                               -                                                                                                                                     -       _ 
BARBADOS    214 II' 1  3357 1111 57 S1-5    IS'  778 
BELIZE    1171 1IR5 la4h 1716 1!42 149 2528121153 19,13        Thi. per,,astRe RtPrs-rd byttZ
______ -                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WerAt 8"l 'MO..cI5,0r o
DOMINICA    351 179  9  u 16Isa. Ios  us  25  13              IR. rsrntoa fte edes
UREISARA  155  ft  515 ADS 555 1313 ARE   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~N" "      "d'     C      0)   L    CD    Mv        B      I     ,, 
517                      do~~~~~~~h 05 0ffX0iR ZZS fA
ARAA 353 534 187 895  5717711T                               &~y
JAMAIEA    1 13 1131 1081 958 9841                             ayetort.vodesaa
MRNTSEWrRA   490 319 I6S  5 1rlOttsao 0R505~L__
ST, KITTS   517 355 DI4                                                                                                                     /3$       ~B  R  A0.Z.I-L
SI. CREIR    3                                                                                                                         .'A                                          



