CREDIT NUMBER 960 CRG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                               ,1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 960 CRG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           (e      , 1980, between INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASS IATION (he inafter called the Associa-
tion) and CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT B il' (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a regional development bank established by and oper-
ating under an Agreement entered into at Kingston, Jamaica, on
October 18, 1969 by the governments of the several States and
Territories which were signatories thereto.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions):
(a) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
word "Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(b) Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by
the following paragraph (e):
"(e) (i) Any Eligible Country listed in the Schedule to
the Development Credit Agreement shall have ceased to be such
Eligible Country; or (ii) any borrower under a Sub-loan (as
such term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement)
shall have been suspended from membership in, or ceased to be
a member of, the Association or shall have ceased to be
included in the membership of a member of the Association."
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in paragraph (b) of Section 2.04 of the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement no requests permitted under
paragraph (a) of such Section shall have been received by the
Association in respect of any portion of the Credit or having
been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the
Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Credit Account, the Association may by notice to the
Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
requests or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as
the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Approved Sector" means agriculture, agro-industry,
manufacturing industry, tourism, transportation, public utilities,
sites and services, technical and vocational education and train-
ing, and any other economic sector approved by the Association and
the Borrower for the purposes of the Project.
(b)  "Eligible Country" means any state or territory listed
in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended
from time to time by the Association.
(c) "Government" means the government of an Eligible
Country.
(d) "Investment Enterprise" means the ultimate recipient of
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project, within an Approved Sector and located in an Eligible
Country, to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise or by a
Government utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment, and
"Regional Investment Project" means an Investment Project located
in, or of benefit to, two or more Eligible Countries.
(f)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit granted or proposed to
be granted out of the proceeds of the Credit by the Borrower to
a Government for the financing of an Investment Project to be
carried out by such Government or by an Investment Enterprise,
such financing being provided either directly through such Govern-
ment or through one or more financial intermediaries.


﻿-3-
(g)  "Investment" means a financial participation other
than a Sub-loan made or proposed to be made in an Investment
Enterprise under the same criteria and for the same purposes as
are required for Sub-loans to such Enterprises.
(h) "Charter" means the Agreement of October 18, 1969
establishing the Borrower, referred to in the Preamble to this
Agreement, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(i) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on December 18, 1970, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(j) "Policies and Procedures Manual" means the Borrower's
manual of policies and procedures dated September 1977, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(k) "Foreign currency", for the purposes of any Investment
Project, means any currency other than the currency or currencies
of the Eligible Country or Countries in which such Investment
Project is located.
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
(b) The Credit shall be part of the special funds resources
of the Borrower, as defined in Article 9 (3) of the Charter, and
shall, except insofar as this Agreement requires otherwise, be
governed by the provisions of such Charter prescribing how such
resources shall be utilized.
Section 2.02 For the purpose of carrying out the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower


﻿-4-
shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to Governments for periods
of fifty years including ten years grace. Repayments by the
Governments shall be in installments payable semiannually and
equivalent to one half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of the prin-
cipal amount so relent during the first ten years of the repayment
period and equivalent to one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of
such principal amount thereafter. Borrowing Governments shall pay
to the Borrower a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of
one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Sub-loans withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b) and.(c) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account, to finance Sub-loans and Invest-
ments:
(i) the equivalent of either (A) the amount of the
Sub-loan or Investment, but not more than eighty
per cent (80%) of the total cost of goods and
services required to carry out the Investment
Project being financed thereunder or (B) the
amount paid (or if the Association shall so agree,
required to meet payments to be made) in foreign
currency for such goods and services originating
outside the country in which the Investment Project
being financed thereunder is located, as the
Borrower shall elect by notice given to the Asso-
ciation prior to the first application for with-
drawal from the Credit Account in respect of such
Investment; and
(ii) for a Regional Investment Project such amounts as
shall be determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
(b) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account in
respect of a Sub-loan, unless:
(i) the state or territory in which the Investment
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan is located, or where the Investment
Project is located in two or more states or terri-
tories, then all of such states and territories,
was or were at the time the Borrower agreed to make


﻿-5-
the Sub-loan an Eligible Country or Eligible
Countries;
(ii) the Association shall have approved the Sub-loan
and authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
in respect of the Sub-loan on the basis of the
information to be provided pursuant to Section 2.04
(a) of this Agreement; and
(iii) the Association shall have received an instrument
in form and substance satisfactory to the Associ-
ation, whereby the Borrower assigns its rights
under the Sub-loan agreement to the Association
subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
the Assignment Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expendi-
tures made by a Government or by an Investment Enterprise in
respect of a Sub-loan or Investment if such expenditures shall
have been made before the date of this Agreement or more than one
hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan or Investment the
request and information required by Section 2.04 (a) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph
(b) of this Section, each request by the Borrower for authoriza-
tion to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a
Sub-loan or Investment shall contain a summary description of the
Investment Project and the Investment Enterprise or agency of
Government responsible therefor (includi-g a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit) and the terms and conditions of such Sub-loan or Invest-
ment (including, in the case of a Sub-loan, the repayment terms
therefor).
(b) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, requests and applications made pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) of this Section shall be presented to the
Association on or before December 31, 1981.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1990 and ending
August 1, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not utilize the proceeds of the Credit
to co-finance projects financed by the proceeds of any other loan
or credit made by the Bank or the Association.
Section 2.11. As compensation for the costs to the Borrower
of carrying out the Project, the Association shall pay to the
Borrower in dollars in respect of each of the five years beginning
with 1980 the following respective amounts, the first such payment
to be made not later than November 30, 1980 and subsequent
payments to be made at twelve months' intervals thereafter:
$91,560, $99,800, $108,782, $118,572 and $129,243.
Section 2.12. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the aggregate amount of Sub-loans and Investments made for
Investment Projects located in any one Eligible Country shall not
exceed the equivalent of thirty-five per cent (35%) of the Credit.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Project is the financing by the Bor-
rower through Governments, of Investment Projects in Approved


﻿-7-
Sectors in or of benefit to Eligible Countries and to be carried
out by such Governments or by Investment Enterprises with the
assistance of Sub-loans and Investments, all in furtherance of the
corporate purposes of the Borrower and in conformity with the
Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel
and in accordance with the procedures described in the Policies
and Procedures Manual.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure through appro-
priate legal means that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms whereby
the Borrower shall obtain, pursuant to written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or Government or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any Invest-
ment, the right of the Borrower and the Government to: (i) require
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficieney and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
purchased   at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Association if the Associa-
tion shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require
that: (1) the Investment Enterprise take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment


﻿-8-
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Association, the Borrower or the Government
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
admnistration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project carried out by the Investment Enterprise; and (vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under the contract or agreement providing
for such Sub-loan or Investment.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project. To that end, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate or waive any term or condition applying to the
payment of principal of, and interest or other charges on, the
Sub-loan without the Association's concurrence.
Section 3.03. It shall be a condition in all contracts
or agreements between the Borrower and Governments to whom
Sub-loans shall be made out of the proceeds of the Credit that the
Government agree that the rights of the Borrower under such
contracts or agreements shall be assigned by the Borrower to the
Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation at regular intervals all such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enter-
prises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the
foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under agreements under which funds have been lent or


﻿-9-
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower for relending,
investment or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Association of any action which would have the effect of assign-
ing, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case
not later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Association, would
materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies used in its lending and borrowing opera-
tions.
Section 4.05. The Association and the Borrower shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views


﻿- 10 -
through their representatives with regard to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and any
subsidiary, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
all such information as 'the Association shall reasonably request
concerning such administration, operations and financial condi-
tion.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant doeuments.
ARTICLE V
Resedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter, Statement
of Policy or Policies a2d Procedures Manual which would materially
and adversely affect the operations or the financial condition of
the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(d) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of the Borrower under any loan agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower or on the part of any guarantor under
any agreement guaranteeing any part of any loan granted under such
a loan agreement; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date                    !:70q   is hereby
specified for the purposes o     Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Caribbean Development Bank
P.O. Box 408
Wildey
St. Michael
Barbados, W.I.
Cable address:                     Telex:
CARIBANK                           WB 2287
Barbados


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 through 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
A'
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Eligible Countries
Antigua
Grenada
Montserrat
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of2
19FR S.
FOR SECRETARY


