OFFI CIL
DI)0CREDIT NUMBER 960 CRG
Assignment Agreement
(Second Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 960 CRG
ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                               , 1980 between
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BA    (hereinafter  alled the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called   the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to make a
credit to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of seven
million dollars ($7,000,000) (hereinafter called the Devel-
opment Credit);
(B) the Borrower intends to relend the proceeds of the
Development Credit to several countries and territories under
Sub-loans; and
(C) the Borrower has agreed to provide security for the
payment of principal of and charges on the Development Credit by
assigning to the Association all rights that it may exercise under
such Sub-loans and for that purpose has agreed to execute this
Assignment Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Assignment Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Preamble to this Assignment Agreement, in the
General Conditions referred to in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit amounts due and payable" as applied
to any date means all amounts due and payable as of such date on
account of service charges on the Development Credit and on
account of principal thereof in accordance with the provisions of
the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that if the
Association shall by notice to the Borrower have declared the
principal of the Development Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon,
then the term "Development Credit amounts due and payable" shall


﻿-2-
also include such principal of, and accrued service charges on,
the Development Credit;
(b) "assignment" means any assignment made in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of this Assignment Agreement;
(c) "assigned agreement" means any agreement pursuant
to which proceeds of the Development Credit are relent by the
Borrower and which gives rise to rights that have been assigned in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of this Assignment
Agreement;
(d) "sub-borrower" means any party, other than the Borrower,
to an assigned agreement; and
(e) "assignment benefit" means any amount paid or to be
paid by a sub-borrower to the Association pursuant to the provi-
sions of an assignment agreement and an assignment.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) As security for the due payment of the
principal of, and service charges on, the Development Credit, the
Borrower shall assign to the Association     ny and all rights,
contingent or otherwise, which it now has or iay hereafter acquire
under any agreement pursuant to which proceeds of the Development
Credit are relent by the Borrower.
(b) Such a,ssignments shall be made by the Borrower by
issuing to the Association in respect of any agreement pursuant to
which proceeds of the Development Credit are relent by the Bor-
rower an indenture of assignment in form and substance according
to the form of indenture of assignment set forth in the Schedule
to this Assignment Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Each assignment of rights under an assigned
agreement, when executed in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding Section 2.01, shall cause the Association to accede to
all rights hitherto vested in the Borrower pursuant to the as-
signed agreement so that the Association shall have full ownership
of such rights, without restriction or reservation, and shall
entitle the Association to exercise any and all rights which the
Borrower would have been entitled to exercise pursuant to that
agreement in the absence of such assignment.


﻿-3-
(b) Each assigned agreement shall specify that the sub-
borrower concerned agrees to the assignment by the Borrower to the
Association of the Borrower's rights under that agreement in
accordance with the provisions of thi- Assignment Agreement, and
to the effects of such assignment specified in this Assignment
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of the
preceding Section, the Association hereby authorizes the Borrower
to exercise the rights so assigned under any assigned agreement,
except for the right to amend, abrogate or waive any provision of
the assigned agreement that relates to payment of principal of, or
interest or other charges on, the Sub-loan made under that agree-
ment, or to any contractual remedy which may be exercised in the
event of a default of the sub-borrower in the carrying out of its
obligations under that agreement; and the Borrower accepts such
authorization and shall exercise such rights in accordance with
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Association
agrees that it shall not exercise any of the rights under an
assigned agreement whose exercise it has delegated to the Borrower
under the preceding Section 2.03, unless either of the following
events shall have occurred:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the payment by the
Borrower of any Development Credit amount due and payable and such
default is related in whole or in part to a corresponding default
on the part of the sub-borrower in the payment of debt service
pursuant to that assigned agreement; and
(b) a default shall have occurred in the payment by the
Borrower of any Development Credit amount due and payable and such
default is not related to a corresponding default on the part of
any sub-borrower in the payment of debt service pursuant to its
assigned agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
assist the Association in the enforcement of the assignments and
the rights assigned thereunder. To that end, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association all such information, documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request from
the Borrower for the purpose.


﻿ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. All assignment benefits paid to or on the
order of the Association shall pro tanto discharge:
(a) the sub-borrower concerned from its obligation to
pay principal of, and interest or other charges on, its Sub-loan,
but only if the Association has instructed the sub-borrower to
make such payment to or on the order of the Association; and
(b) the Borrower from its obligation to pay service charges
on, and principal of, the Development Credit, in that order; any
assignment benefits received by the Association in excess of the
Development Credit amounts then due and payable shall be applied
to prepay the principal amount of the Development Credit in such
order of maturities as shall be determined by the Association.
Section 3.02. As far as concerns discharge of the Borrower's
obligations pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement that are
not discharged by the receipt of assignment benefits by the
Association, the Association reserves all its rights and remedies
against the Borrower as provided by the Development Credit Agree-
ment. In this regard, the parties hereto declare that no assign-
ment shall in any way constitute a payment or represent a novation
of the Borrower's obligations towards the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The rights and obligations of the Borrower
and the Association under this Assignment Agreement shall be
governed by the provisions of Articles X and XI of the General
Conditions, provided, however, that the term "Development Credit
Agreement" wherever it appears in those Articles shall be replaced
by a reference to this Assignment Agreement.
Section 4.02. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement are incorporated into this
Assignment Agreement for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions.
Section 4.03. This Assignment Agreement shall become effec-
tive upon its signature by both parties.
Section 4.04. This Assignment Agreement shall terminate on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Carribean


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
[Form of Indenture of Assignment]
[Date]
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Sirs:
Re: Credit No. 960 CRG
(Second Caribbean Development Bank Project)
Assignment of Sub-loan
The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) hereby grants, conveys,
assigns and transfers unto International Development Association
any and all rights which CDB now has or may hereafter acquire
pursuant to the provisions of the Loan Agreement (
Project) dated                     between CDB and
all in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Assignment Agreement date               9, /lqhO between CDB and
International Development Ass ciation. O
Very truly yours,
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative
International Development Association hereby agrees to and accepts
the assignment described in the foregoing in accordance with
and subject to the provisions of said Assignment Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Dated:


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
FOR SECRETARY


