FFICTAL      $PECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 37 CRG
Assignment Agreement
(Second Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated                       9      , 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 37 CRG
ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                               , 1980 between
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BAR (hereinaft    called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter
called the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Administrator (hereinafter called the Special
Action Credit Agreement), the Administrator has agreed to make a
credit to the Borrower in various currencies (hereinafter called
the Special Action Credit);
(B) the Borrower intends to relend the proceeds of the
Special Action Credit to several countries and territories under
Sub-loans; and
(C) the Borrower has agreed to provide security for the
payment of principal of and charges on the Special Action Credit
by assigning to the Administrator all rights that it may exercise
under such Sub-loans and for that purpose has agreed to execute
this Assignment Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Assignment Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Preamble to this Assignment Agreement, in the
General Conditions referred to in, and as modified by, the
Special Action Credit Agreement, and in the Special Action Credit
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Credit amounts due and payable" as applied to any date
ireans all amounts due and payable as of such date on account of
service charges on the Special Action Credit and on account of
principal thereof in accordance with the provisions of the Special
Action Credit Agreement; provided, however, that if the Admini-
strator shall by notice to the Borrower have declared the prin-
cipal of the Special Action Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon,


﻿-2-
then the term "Credit amounts due and payable" shall also include
such principal of, and accrued service charges on, the Special
Action Credit;
(b) "assignment" means any assignment made in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of this Assignment Agreement;
(c) "assigned agreement" means any agreement pursuant
to which proceeds of the Special Action Credit are relent by the
Borrower and which gives rise to rights that have been assigned in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of this Assignment
Agreement;
(d) "sub-borrower" means any party, other than the Borrower,
to an assigned agreement; and
(e) "assignment benefit" means any amount paid or to be
paid by a sub-borrower to the Administrator pursuant to the provi-
sions of an assignment agreement and an assignment.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.Ul0 (a) As security for the due payment of the
principal of, and service charges on, the Special Action Credit,
the Borrower shall assign to the Administrator any and all rights,
contingent or otherwise, which it now has or may hereafter acquire
under any agreement pursuant to which proceeds of the Special
Action Credit are relent by the Borrower.
(b) Such assignments shall be made by the Borrower by
issuing to the Administrator in respect of any agreement pursuant
to which proceeds of the Special Action Credit are relent by the
Borrower an indenture of assignment in form and substance accord-
ing to the form of indenture of assignment set forth in the
Schedule to this Assignment Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Each assignment of rights under an assigned
agreement, when executed in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding Section 2.01, shall cause the Administrator to accede to
all rights hitherto vested in the Borrower pursuant to the as-
signed agreement so that the Administrator shall have full owner-
ship of such rights, without restriction or reservation, and shall
entitle the Administrator to exercise any and all rights which the
Borrower would have teen entitled to exercise pursuant to that
agreement in the absence of such assignment.


﻿-3-
(b) Each assigned agreement shall specify that the sub-
borrower concerned agrees to the assignment by the Borrower to the
Administrator of the Borrower's rights under that agreement in
accordance with the provisions of this Assignment Agreement, and
to the effects of such assignment specified in this Assignment
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of the
preceding Section, the Administrator hereby authorizes the Bor-
rower to exercise the rights so assigned under any assigned
agreement, except for the right to amend, abrogate or waive any
provision of the assigned agreement that relates to payment of
principal of, or interest or other charges on, the Sub-loan made
under that agreement, or to any contractual remedy which may be
exercised in the event of a default of the sub-borrower in the
carrying out of its obligations under that agreement; and the
Borrower accepts such authorization and shall exercise such rights
in accordance with the provisions of the Special Action Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.04. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Admini-
strator agrees that it shall not exercise any of the rights under
an assigned agreement whose exercise it has delegated to the
Borrower under the preceding Section 2.03, unless either of the
following events shall have occurred:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the payment by the
Borrower of any Credit amount due and payable and such default is
related in whole or in part to a corresponding default on the part
of the sub-borrower in the payment of debt service pursuant to
that assigned agreement; and
(b) a default shall have occurred in the payment by the
Borrower of any Credit amount due and payable and such default is
not related to a corresponding default on the part of any sub-
borrower in the payment of debt service pursuant to its assigned
agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
assist the Administrator in the enforcement of the assignments and
the rights assigned thereunder. To that end, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Administrator all such information, documents and
other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably request froi
the Borrower for the purpose.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. All assignment benefits paid to or on the
order of the Administrator shall pro tanto discharge:
(a) the sub-borrower concerned from its obligation to
pay principal of, and interest or other charges on, its Sub-loan,
but only if the Administrator has instructed the sub-borrower to
make such payment to or on the order of the idministrator; and
(b) the Borrower from its obligation to pay service charges
on, and principal of, the Special Action Credit, in that order;
any assignment benefits received by the Administrator in excess of
the Credit amounts then due and payable shall be applied to prepay
the principal amount of the Special Action Credit in such order of
maturities as shall be determined by the Administrator.
Section 3.02. As far as concerns discharge of the Borrower's
obligations pursuant to the Special Action Credit Agreement that
are not discharged by the receipt of assignment benefits by the
Administrator, the Administrator reserves all its rights and
remedies against the Borrower as provided by the Special Action
Credit Agreement. In this regard, the parties hereto declare that
no assignment shall in any way constitute a payment or represent a
novation of the Borrower's obligations towards the Administrator.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The rights and obligations of the Borrower
and the Administrator under this Assignment Agreement shall be
governed by the provisions of Articles X and XI of the General
Conditions, provided, however, that the term "Special Action
Credit Agreement" wherever it appears in those Articles shall be
replaced by a reference to this Assignment Agreement.
Section 4.02. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of
the Special Action Credit Agreement are incorporated into this
Assignment Agreement for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions.
Section 4.03. This Assignment Agreement shall become effec-
tive upon its signature by both parties.
Section 4.04. This Assignment Agreement shall terminate on
the date on which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
[Form of Indenture of Assignment]
[Date]
Administrator of the
Special Action Account
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Sirs:
Re: Special Action Credit No. 37 CRG
(Second Caribbean Development Bank Project)
Assignment of Sub-loan
The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) hereby grants, conveys,
assigns and transfers unto International Development Association
as Administrator of the Special Action Account established with
funds contributed by the Meaber States of the European Economic
Community (the Administrator) any and all rights which CDB now
has or may hereafter acquire pursuant to the provisions of the
Loan Agreement (                Project) dated
between CDB and               , all in accordance with and subject
to the provisions of the Assignment Agreement dated
(bI ltc     9,, 7/9c5 between CDB and the Administrator.
Very truly yours,
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
The Administrator hereby agrees to and accepts the assignment
described in the foregoing in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of said Assignment Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Dated:


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of -J       ,
FOR SECRETARY


