o.cLAL ISPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 37 CRG
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Second Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                        , 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 37 CRG
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   q         , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME    ASSOCIATI    as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY and CARIBBEAN
DEVELOPMENT BANK (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement and the Administrator has determined that such assis-
tance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement
of May 2, 1978 referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the project described
in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (hereinafter called the
Development Credit Agreement) IDA is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to seven
million dollars ($7,000,000) (hereinafter called the IDA Credit);
and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW TFEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted;
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity;
(e) the words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
word "Project" at the end of Section 5.03;
(f) paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by
the following paragraph (e):
"(e) (i) Any Eligible Country listed in the Schedule to
the Development Credit Agreement shall have ceased to be such
Eligible Country; or (ii) any borrower under a Sub-loan (as
such term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement)
shall have been suspended from membership in, or ceased to be
a member of, the Association or shall have ceased to be
included in the membership of a member of the Association."
(g) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount


﻿- 3 -
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in paragraph (b) of Section 2.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement no requests permitted under
paragraph (a) of such Section shall have been received by the
Association in respect of any portion of the Credit or having
been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the
Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Credit Account, the Association may by notice to the
Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
requests or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as
the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e., Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic
of Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands
and The United Kingdom.
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit
Agreement.
(c) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of
the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to
such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Development
Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(d) "Approved Sector" means agriculture, agro-industry,
manufacturing industry, tourism, transportation, public utilities,
sites and services, technical and vocational education and train-
ing, and any other economic sector approved by the Administrator
and the Borrower for the purnoses of the Project.


﻿-4-
(e) "Eligible Country" means any state or territory listed
in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended
from time to time by the Administrator.
(f) "Government" means the government of an Eligible
Country.
(g) "Investment Enterprise" means the ultimate recipient of
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(h) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project, within an Approved Sector and located in an Eligible
Country, to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise or by a
Government utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment, and
"Regional Investment Project" means an Investment Project located
in, or of benefit to, two or more Eligible Countries.
(i) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit granted or proposed
to be granted out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
by the Borrower to a Government for the financing of an Invest-
ment Project to be carried out by such Government or by an
Investment Enterprise, such financing being provided either
directly through such Government or through one or more financial
intermediaries.
(j) "Investment" means a financial participation other
than a Sub-loan made or proposed to be made in an Investment
Enterprise under the same criteria and for the same purposes as
are required for Sub-loans to such Enterprises.
(k) "Charter" means the Agreement of October 18, 1969
establishing the Borrower, referred to in the Preamble to this
Agreement, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(1) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on December 18, 1970, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(m) "Policies and Procedures Manual" means the Borrower's
manual of procedures dated September 1977, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
(n) "Foreign currency", for the purposes of any Investment
Project, means any currency other than the currency or currencies
of the Eligible Country or Countries in which such Investment
Project is located.


﻿-5-
(o) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of tI._ outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
one million one hundred
and fifty-nine thousand       Belgian francs    (BF1,159,000);
one hundred and forty-four
thousand                      Danish kroner       (DK144,000);
five hundred and fifty-seven
thousand                      Deutsche marks      (DM557,000);
five hundred and eighty-nine
thousand                      French francs       (FF589,000);
one thousand three hundred        Irish pounds         (Iril,300);
sixty-eight million three
hundred and fifty
thousand                      Italian lire    (ItL68,350,000);
thirty-six thousand               Luxembourg francs    (LF36,000);
one hundred and fifty-four        Netherlands
thousand                      guilders          (Dfl 154,000);
and
one hundred and forty-two
thousand                      Pounds sterling      (9142,000).
(b) The Special Action Credit shall be part of the special
funds resources of the Borrower, as defined in Article 9 (3) of


﻿the Charter, and shall, except insofar as this Agreement requires
otherwise, be governed by the provisions of such Charter pre-
scribing how such resources shall be utilized.
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures: (i) in the currency of the Government to whom the Borrower
makes a Sub-loan; or (ii) for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, (A) any of the Member States and (B) any developing
country which is a member of the International Development Asso-
ciation and could be the recipient of a special action credit, as
determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. For the purpose of carrying out the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall relend the proceeds of the Special Action Credit to Govern-
ments for periods of fifty years including ten years grace.
Repayments by the Governments shall be in installments payable
semiannually and equivalent to one half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of the principal amount so relent during the first ten years
of the repayment period and equivalent to one and one-half per
cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount thereafter. Borrowing
Governments shall pay to the Borrower a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Sub-loans withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.04. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b) and (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account, to finance Sub-loans and Invest-
meats:
(i) the equivalent of either (A) the amount of the
Sub-loan or Investment, but not more than eighty


﻿-7-
per cent (80%) of the total cost of goods and
services requi'ed to carry out the Investment
Project being financed thereunder or (B) the amount
paid (or if the Administrator shall so agree,
required to meet payments to be made) in foreign
currency for such goods and services originating
outside the country in which the Investment Project
being financed thereunder is located, as the
Borrower shall elect by notice given to the Admin-
istrator prior to the first application for with-
drawal from the Credit Account in respect of such
Investment Project; and
(ii) for a Regional Investment Project such amounts as
shall be determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Administrator.
(b) Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit
Account in respect of a Sub-loan, unless:
(i) the state or territory in which the Investment
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan 's located, or where the Investment
Project Js A)cated in two or more states or terri-
tories, Lhe.a all of such states and territories,
was or were at the time the Borrower agreed to make
the Sub-loan an Eligible Country or Eligible
Countries;
(ii) the Administrator shall have approved the Sub-loan
and authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
in respect of the Sub-loan on the basis of the
information to be provided pursuant to Section 2.05
(a) of this Agreement; and
(iii) the Administrator shall have received an instrument
in form and substance satisfactory to the Adminis-
trator, whereby the Borrower assigns its rights
under the Sub-loan agreement to the Administrator
subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
the Assignment Agreement of even date herewith
between the Administrator and the Borrower.
(c)   Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of


﻿-8-
expenditures made by a Government or by an Investment Enterprise
in respect of a Sub-loan or Investment if such expenditures shall
have been made before the date of this Agreement or more than one
hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Adminis-
trator shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan or Invest-
ment the request and information required by Section 2.05 (a) of
this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph
(b) of this Section, each request by the Borrower for authoriza-
tion to make withdrawals from the Special Action Credit Account in
respect of a Sub-loan or Investment shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Project and the Investment Enter-
prise or agency of Government responsible therefor (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit) and the terms and condi-
tions of such Sub-loan or Investment (including, in the case of a
Sub-loan, the repayment terms therefor).
(b) Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, requests and applications made pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section shall be presented to
the Administrator on or before December 31, 1981,
Section 2.06.' The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Special Action Credit Account and outstanding from
time to time. The amounts of service charge in various currencies
so found, and additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant
to Section 3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the
currency of the United States of America, or in another currency
selected by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association


﻿- 9 -
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.08. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1990
and ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Special Action Credit
Account as shall be found by multiplying the total amount in each
currency so withdrawn by the applicable installment percentage as
specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Admini-
strator shall otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to
each payment date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of
fractional currency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Project is the financing by the Bor-
rower through the Governments, of Investment Projects in Approved
Sectors in or of benefit to Eligible Countries and to be carried
out by such Governments or by Investment Enterprises with the
assistance of Sub-loans and Investments, all in furtherance of the
corporate purposes of the Borrower and in conformity with the
Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel
and in accordance with the procedures described in the Policies
and Procedures Manual.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure through appro-
priate legal means that, unless the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms whereby
the Borrower shall obtain, pursuant to written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or Government or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Admini-
strator and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan
and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
Investment, the right of the Borrower and the Government to: (i)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stand-
a:ds and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Special Action Credit shall be purchased   at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the


﻿- 11 -
Administrator if the Administrator shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Administrator, the Borrower or the Government
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project carried out by the Investment Enterprise; and (vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under the contract or agreement providing
for such Sub-loan or Investment.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Administrator and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project. To that end, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate or waive any term or condition applying to the
payment of principal of, and interest or other charges on, the
Sub-loan without the Administrator's concurrence.
Section 3.03. It shall be a condition of all contracts
or agreements between the Borrower and Governments to whom
Sub-loans shall be made out of the proceeds of the Special Action
Credit that the Government agree that the rights of the Borrower
under such contracts or agreements shall be assigned by the
Borrower to the Administrator.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator at regular intervals all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and
Investments and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing.


﻿- 12 -
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Special Action Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower for relending,
investment or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Administrator of any action which would have the effect of assign-
ing, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
Sectio.n 3.06. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that in respect of any Investment
Project, international competitive bidding for any contract for
the supply of goods, works or services to be financed out of
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment, be open to all countries
in whose currencies withdrawals may be made from the Special
Action Credit Account in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available but in any case
not later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as


﻿- 13 -
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Administrator, would
materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Administrator as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies used in its lending and borrowing
operations.
Section 4.05. The Administrator and the Borrower shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and any
subsidiary, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator
all such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request
concerning such administration, operations and financial condi-
tion.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall enable the Administrator's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;


﻿- 14 -
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter, Statement
of Policy or Policies and Procedures Manual which would materially
and adversely affect the operations or the financial condition of
the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(d) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of the Borrower under any credit or loan agree-
ment between IDA or the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the Borrower or on the part of any guarantor
under any agreement guaranteeing any part of any loan granted
under such a loan agreement; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following addlii.nal events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date               ; 1 1       is hereby
specified for the purposes o Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 15 -
For the Bank:
Administrator of the
Special Action Account
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Caribbean Development Bank
P.O. Box 408
Wildey
St. Michael
Barbados, W.I.
Cable address:                     Telex:
CARIBANK                           WB 2287
Barbados
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 through 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 16 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE
Eligible Countries
Antigua
Grenada
Montserrat
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of _ak-_    ,
19SE.
FOR SECRETARY


