Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 21420 CM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION (SDR 39.2 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC CAMEROON
FORA
MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT
December 18, 2000
Rural Development 2
Country Department 7
Africa Regional Office



URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
I CFA Franc = US$0.00 129
US$1 = CAF Franc 777.25
FISCAL YEAR
July I June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV           Antiretroviral (Drugs)
AZT           Zydovudine (Anti mother-to-child HIV transmission)
CAA           Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAPP          Provincial Drug Procurement Agency
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs          Community Based Organizations
CC            Correspondant Communal
CENAME        Central Drug Procurement Agency
CHAC          Communal HIV/AIDS Committee
CLLS          Local HIV/AIDS Committee
CNLS          National WHV/AIDS Committee
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
CQ            Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
DFID          Department for International Development
DOTS          Directly Observed Treatment Strategy
EA            Environmental Assessment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EOI           Expressions of Interest
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
FP            Sector Specific Focal Points
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOC           Government of Cameroon
GPN           General Procurement Notice
GTC           Groupe Technique Central
GTP           Groupe Technique Provincial
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:   Jan Weetjens



GTZ          Gesellschaftffur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV           Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAPSO        The Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Communication, and Education
IPIP         Interim Program Implementation Procedures
LC            Letters of Credit
LCS          Least Cost Selection
LHAC         Local HIV/AIDS Committee
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP           Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
MINEFI       Ministry of Finance
MINSANTE   Ministry of Public Health
MTCT         Mother-to-Child Transmission
NAERP        National Agricultural Extension and Research Program
NBF           Not Bank-financed
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGOs          Non-Governmental Organizations
NHAC          National HIV/AIDS Committee
PHAC         Provincial HIV/AIDS Committee
PIM           Program Implementation Manual
PLWHA        People Living with HIV/AIDS
PMR           Project Management Report
POs          Private Organizations
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR          Project Status Report
QBS          Quality Based Selection
QCBS         Quality and Cost Based Selection
RFP           Request for Proposal
SFB           Selection under a Fixed Budget
SOEs         Statement of Expenditures
SPN           Specific Procurement Notices
STDs          Sexually Transmitted Diseases
SSS           Single Source Selection
STI           Sexually Transmitted Infection
SYNAME       National System for Procurement of Drugs
TANESA       Tanzania-Netherlands HIV/AIDS NGO
TOR          Terms of Reference
UNAIDS       Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNDB         United Nations Development Business
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
VCT          Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WFP           World Food Programme
WHO           World Health Organization






CAMEROON
MiULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      I1
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          22
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    26
2. Critical risks                                                                     27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     29



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              29
2. Other                                                                                29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           60
Annex 4: Benefit Analysis Summary                                                          61
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 62
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         63
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       76
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              80
Annex 11: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                        82
Annex 12: Organizational Charts                                                            87
MAP(S)
Map of Cameroon



CAMEROON
Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: December 18, 2000                           Team Leader: Jan Aime E. Weetjens
Country Director: Robert Calderisi                Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P073065                               Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development;
HealthlNutritionlPopulation; Social Protection; Gender And
Development; Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 50.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 30
Commitment fee:                                       Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        7.50           0.00          7.50
IDA                                                           40.00           10.00         50.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              2.50            0.00          2.50
Total:                                                         50.00          10.00         60.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH - NATIONAL HIV/AIDS COMMITTEE
Address: Comite National de Lutte contre le SIDA (CNLS)
c/o Ministere de la Sante Publique
Yaounde
Cameroun
Contact Person: Prof. Koulla Shiro
Tel: 237 22 01 72               Fax: 237 22 02 33                Email: CNLS_GTC@hotmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
fY A        2001      2002        2003      2004       2005
Annual    7.50       10.00      12.50      13.00      7.00
Cumulative    7.50       17.50      30.00     43.00      50.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD F-  R.v M~AD, 2



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To curb the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Cameroon and to mitigate its impact for all
those who are infected or affected by HIV/AIDS through the strengthening of communities'
capacity to design and implement action plans for HIV/AIDS and through support to the design
and implementation of sector specific HIV/AIDS strategies.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following constitute the summary impact, output and process indicators of the project.
Given the nature of the epidemic and the experience in other countries, it would be difficult to
achieve measurable impact in terms of reduction of HIV/AIDS prevalence in the overall adult
population, or increase in life expectancy within the project period. However, measurable impact
can be expected among certain target groups as mentioned in the impact indicators. A more
extensive list of indicators appears in the logical framework (Annex 1).
A. Impact Indicators
% decrease of HIV/AIDS prevalence among pregnant women age 15 to 19
% decrease of HIV/AIDS prevalence among the military age 18 to 24
% decrease of HIV/AIDS prevalence among commercial sex workers age 15 to 24
60% of tuberculosis patients having completed Directly Observed Treatment Strategy (DOTS)
B. Output Indicators
5,000 communities will have established HIV/AIDS committees by the end of year 4 of the project
300 communes will have established HIV/AIDS committees by the end of year 4 of the project
All 10 provinces will have established HIV/AIDS committees by the end of year I of the project
Staff in 50 implementing agencies will have been trained to support community based participatory development of
HIV/AIDS action plans
Basic services, medication and equipment for care of AIDS patients will be available in 60% of front line health posts
Sector Focal Points will have been identified and will have established work plans to design and implement sector
specific strategies
50 Voluntary Testing and Counceling centers will have been established
GTC and GTP in place and fully operational at national and provincial level
- 2 -



C. Process Indicators
Number of Community HIV/AIDS Committees receiving support to implement their action plans
Number of implementing agencies to facilitate the organization of local responses at the community level
Number of sector agencies (private and public) that have prepared HIV/AIDS strategies
Number of testing centers, and distribution points for drugs
Flow of funds to communities, various implementing agencies, and HIV/AIDS committees at various levels
Regularity of supervision and support missions by staff of coordinating units to implementing agencies and communities
Regularity of ex-post controls of use of financial resources
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15275-CM              Date of latest CAS discussion: June 15, 2000
The CAS Update of June 2000 outlined the Bank's strategy for the following 18 months before a
full CAS is prepared. The objective of this strategy is to address poverty reduction issues more
rapidly and effectively, with particular emphasis on governance, corruption, HIV/AIDS and the
social sectors. The strategy links the Bank's work directly to Cameroon' s participation in the
enhanced HIPC initiative. In the context of the HIPC, the Government is preparing a full poverty
reduction strategy paper (PRSP) which should be completed by early 2002. The full CAS will be
prepared in parallel with the PRSP.
Using a variety of analytical and advisory activities, the Bank will support the Government to
prepare the PRSP which will address the challenges of how to better integrate growth, poverty
reduction, and governance objectives in the country's development. In particular, the PRSP will
focus, inter alia, on reform and rehabilitation of the education and health sectors. In these sectors,
the Government has already carried out important up-front actions for initiating reforms and has
prepared satisfactory strategies. This work will be deepened and enhanced with further reforms
to be carried out and with the implementation of the sector strategies. Furthermore, expenditure
frameworks for the health and education sectors will also be developed. Gender issues and the
HIV/AIDS threat are key aspects of the PRSP and are being given particular focus in the design
of the spending plans for HIPC resources. Finally, the participatory consultations and public
dialogue over the PRSP should provide the Government with an opportunity to mobilize broader
support for these issues.
The Government's strategy is to center HIPC debt savings on seven priority sectors; education,
health, HIV/AIDS, social affairs, rural development, basic infrastructure and governance. The
Bank is working closely with the Government to finalize spending programs and projects in these
sectors which are specifically targeted to reducing poverty and reaching vulnerable groups.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Epidemiological Situation of HIV/AIDS
Cameroon's first AIDS case was reported in 1986. By 1998, an estimated 550,000 people were
infected with the HIV virus. The latest HIV/AIDS surveillance results (September 2000) indicate
an HtIV prevalence rate of 1 1% amo-ng the sexually active population, representing an estimated
937,000 infected people. Today, an estimated 650 people are newly infected with the HIV virus
in Cameroon every day.
By December 1994, the total number of full-blown AIDS cases registered was 5,375 and, in 1998,
the cumulative AIDS cases had reached 20,419. By the year 2005, the Government estimates
10,000-14,000 new AIDS cases. Subtype 0, a rare variant of HIV, has been detected in
Cameroon. Approximately 90% of HIV transmission is by heterosexual contact, resulting in a
roughly equal number of men and women being infected. However, among youth, the number of
infected young women is twice as high as young men due to behavioral (age difference with
sexual partner) and biological reasons (greater physiological vulnerability). The vast majority of
reported cases - 75% - are found between 20-39 years of age.
Cam  er oon
H IV /A IDS p reva le n c e rates 1 9 8 7 - 2000
am ong sexually active population
12  .
1 0    i  
8
6
4
2
co  co  cc  0)   0   a )  0)  0)  0)  0)  0)   0)  0)  0
0)  0  0)   0    00)    )M   cm  0)  0)  0)    0)  0)  )  0D
Year
4-



It is widely recognized that HIV/AIDS is a major threat to Cameroon's development. It affects
all levels of society and is rapidly canceling the development gains made since the end of the
depression in 1994. However, the precise macroeconomic impact of AIDS is difficult to assess.
Most studies have found that estimates of the macroeconomic impacts are sensitive to
assumptions about how HIV/AIDS affects savings and investment rates and whether AIDS affects
the best-educated employees more than others. Studies in certain sub-Saharan African countries
have found that the rate of economic growth could be reduced by as much as 25% over a 20-year
period. A simulation model of the economy of Cameroon concluded that the annual growth rate
of GDP could have been reduced by as much as 2 percentage points during the 1987-1991 period
because of HIV/AIDS. Kambou, G., Shantayanan, D., and Mead, 0. 1992. "The Economic Impact of AIDS
in an African Country: Simulations with a Computable General Equilibrium Model of Cameroon", Journal of
African Economies, Volume 1, Number 1.
Up to very recently, HIV/AIDS has been addressed primarily as a health issue. However, it is
increasingly becoming a national crisis that impacts negatively most sectors and exacerbates
poverty. In the agriculture sector, several studies by FAO, WFP, and DFID have shown how
poverty increases at the household when assets (e.g., livestock and/or land) are sold to cover the
cost of medical expenses. In addition, subsistence agriculture is very sensitive to labor availability
which is reduced by HIV/AIDS, both directly, by affecting productive members of the household
and, indirectly through diverting labor to caring for the sick.
The transport sector is another sector particularly vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and important to its
prevention. A survey of bus and truck drivers in Cameroon found that they spent an average of
14 days away from home on each trip. 68% had sex during the most recent trip and 25% had sex
every night they were away AIDS Analysis Africa, Vol. 4 (5), September/October 1994.
Another study conducted in 1993-1994, found that 15% of truck drivers tested positive for HIV
infection in Douala. A similar study carried out in the southwest and coastal areas found 17% of
truck drivers positive for HIV infection.
In the urban areas, considerable progress has been achieved in terns of sensitization to
HIV/AIDS. Among urban youths, 89% are aware of the pandemic and 57% have already used
condoms. Of pregnant women in urban settings, 73% are aware of mother-to-child transmission
(MTCT) during birth and 84% of urban women know of the existence of condoms.
The situation is somewhat different in the rural areas. Only 20% of men in rural areas have
already used a condom (as compared to 73.5% in Yaounde/Douala). The Ministry of Public
Investments and Regional Development along with 13 ministries has launched a pilot operation
for comrnmunity mobilization to control the spread of HIV/AIDS. The Ministry of Agriculture, in
conjunction with local authorities and CBOs/NGOs, is providing technical assistance to this
operation. By December 2000, close to 200 villages will be covered and the objective is to
scale-up to achieve national coverage. In addition, with support from UNAIDS, the National
Agricultural Extension and Research Program (NAERP) has trained 2,045 extension workers on
HIV/AIDS and 560,000 rural families have been sensitized on HIV/AIDS.
In spite of all these efforts and positive achievements, basic awareness remains minimal in the
- 5 -



extreme northern areas. In addition, high-risk behavior is quite widespread. In 1998, 35% of
single women infected with HIV in Yaounde did not use a condom during their most recent
sexual contact; 13% of men had a relation with commercial sex workers; and 20% had
extramarital affairs.
The challenge facing Cameroon is now on two fronts. One is to translate the high level of
awareness into behavioral change to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS both in the rural and urban
areas. The other is to identify the promising governmental and non-governmental HIV/AIDS
prevention, mitigation, and care initiatives and rapidly replicate them to achieve national coverage.
National Strategic Plan
Cameroon started addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic in 1986 by establishing the Committee to
Fight against HIV/AIDS. Since then, four short and medium term plans were designed and
implemented: (1) the Short Term Plan of 1987, (2) the Medium Term Plan I (1988-1992), (3) the
Medium Term Plan 11 (1993-1995), and (4) the Framework for the Fight against HIV/AIDS
(1999-2000). However, these interventions had mixed results due to several factors, including
insufficient coordination among the various stakeholders; ineffective integration and cooperation
across sectors; and scarcity of human and financial resources.
As a result, the HIV/AIDS situation worsened considerably: the HIV prevalence rate in
Cameroon increased from 0.5% in 1987 to 11% in 2000. Faced with this pandemic, the
Government decided to "declare war" on HIV/AIDS and finalized the current emergency
HI V/AIDS strategy in a record three months.
In September 2000, the Prime Minister launched the highly-publicized National Strategic Plan for
the Fight Against AIDS in Cameroon (2000-2005). The preparation of the Strategic Plan was
coordinated by the Ministry of Public Health with technical support from UNAIDS. It is the
outcome of a participatory process involving most line ministries, the private sector,
non-governmental organizations, civil society, and the donor community. Its main objective is to
improve the national response to the HIV/AIDS pandemic.
The elaboration of the National Strategic Plan followed a five-step process which started in June
1999. First, a training workshop for representatives of the provincial governments and members
of the Groupe Technique Central (GTC), the executive body of the National Committee for the
Fight Against HIV/AIDS, on the process of developing the Strategic Plan. This was followed by
a decentralized situation analysis of the HIV/AIDS epidemic at the provincial and district levels.
Third, an analysis of the response to the epidemic, previously planned at the district level, was
carried out at a national workshop in Yaounde to speed up the process. The fourth step,
UNAIDS consultants drafted a preliminary strategic plan. And, in the last step, three meetings
grouping all the stakeholders, representing line ministries, NGOs, the private sector, and religious
organizations finalized the National Strategic Plan for the Fight Against HIV/AIDS in Cameroon.
The National Strategic Plan comprises an operational plan covering six priority areas of
- 6 -



intervention and an emergency plan for 2000-2002. It highlights the following priority areas for
action:
*     Prevention of HIV/AIDS and STI transmission through behavior modification
*     Prevention of HIV transmission in hospital settings and through blood transfusion
*     Provision of clinical and home/community-based care for People Living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA)
*     Establishment of an ethical, legal, and human rights framework for PLWHA
*     Increase in HIV/AIDS research and surveillance
*     Program management and coordination
The emergency plan focuses on three aspects: (1) the use of condoms (masculine and feminine) -
"100% condom strategy; (2) voluntary testing and counseling (VTC); and (3) the promotion of
behavior change among young people 15-24. It will mostly target the "high-risk" population,
namely the military, police, customs officials, penitentiary personnel, students, commercial sex
workers, and truckers.
In addition, the National Strategic Plan includes a major expansion of HIV/AIDS activities that
will be implemented by the following line ministries: National Education, Higher Education,
Agriculture, Defense, Labor, Social Affairs, Women's Affairs, Information, Public Health, Youth
and Sports, and Local Administration. These activities cover the full spectrum of prevention,
treatment, care, and support and target both the staff and the clients of the Government entities.
In addition to the public sector, the Strategic Plan looks at the role of the private sector,
non-governmental organizations, civil society, and the donor community in combating the spread
of HIV/AIDS.
To complement the new National Strategic Plan and reflect its multi-sectoriality, a ministerial
decision was issued in October 2000 to reorganize the Groupe Technique Central (GTC -
executive body of the National HIV/AIDS Committee). The new GTC is managed by a
Permanent Secretary and is composed of five sections: (i) a section for support to local responses;
(ii) a section for support to sector responses; (iii) an operational section, responsible for
monitoring and evaluation of the entire program, monitoring of support and care for PLWIA,
and epidemiological surveillance; (iv) a section responsible for information, communication, and
education (IEC); and (v) a financial management section. The Groupe Technique Provincial
(GTP - executive body of the Provincial HIV/AIDS Committees) is managed by a provincial
manager and comprises the same sections as the GTC.
A second decision issued on December 5, 2000 established the Commission Mixte de Suivi which
will meet on a quarterly basis to oversee the National Committee for the Fight Against AIDS,
review the quarterly progress reports, and ensure the proper use of funds. This commission is
composed of representatives from the Ministries of Territorial Administration, the Finance, the
Public Investment, the Public Health, PLWHA, employer organizations, religious groups, and
donors (UNAIDS, bi-lateral and multi-lateral). Representatives from the President's Office, the
Services of the Prime Minister, Parliament, and the Judiciary, sit on the Commission as
independent observers.
-7 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The sector issues to be addressed include the following:
Multi-sectoral nature of the fight against HIV/AIDS. Although the Government has made
important progress since April 2000 to step up the fight against HIV/AIDS, the full integration of
all sectors is not yet sufficiently tangible. Most sectors are still struggling to clarify their respective
strategies. At the same time, the current National [IV/AIDS strategy is still quite limited to health
sector interventions. While these interventions are of critical importance, they will need to be
complemented with simultaneous efforts in the other sectors. The architecture of the GTC already
outlines the Government's vision to develop a truly multi-sectoral approach to the fight against
HIV/AIDS. The project will assist the Government in translating this multi-sectoral vision into
action on the ground.
Use of sub-contracting agencies to implement HIV/AIDS strategies. There is a consensus that
none of the Government agencies alone will have the resources or capacity needed to address the
HIV/AIDS crisis. The structures which have been put in place to coordinate the Government's
fight against HIV/AIDS reflect the Government's strategic choice to use a multitude of
implementing agencies to carry out the various activities in the field. This, however, is a novelty in
Cameroon and will call for a change in institutional culture and increased capacity with regard to
policy and strategy definition, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and financial control. The
program has an important capacity building component to address this challenge.
Transfer of resources directly to communities. As with the option to use a multitude of
sub-contracting agencies to implement the program, the choice to transfer resources directly to
communities constitutes an important new development. The Government has opted, through the
preparation of this program, to provide financial resources to those communities which have
adequate HIV/AIDS action plans. However, to make this possible, the financial sector has to
address the challenge of the presence, reliability, and efficiency of financial institutions in remote
areas. Many communities are currently more than a day's travel away from the nearest financial
establishment (bank branch, saving and credit organization, cooperative, post office, etc.). Staff
from the Central Bank, with the assistance of the Bank's financial sector specialists, are currently
examining ways and means to improve this situation. This work cannot be finalized before the
effectiveness of the project, but will continue as part of its implementation.
Strengthening of the national, provincial, and communal HIV/AIDS committees. The national and
provincial HIV/AIDS committees have, until now, been extremely weak. Although there is a
token representation from various levels of society (different sectoral ministries, PLWHA, civil
society, etc.) the actual involvement of stakeholders remains very weak. Also the capacity for
policy and strategy definition in the HIV/AIDS committees at various levels is weak. At the
communal level, HIV/AIDS committees do not yet exist. The Government has decided to revamp
the various HIV/AIDS committees and to staff them with adequate representation from various
stakeholders. An important effort in capacity building will be required to assist these efforts.
Strengthening of coordinating units. Until the preparation of this program, the coordinating unit
- 8 -



responsible for the supervision of the implementation of the national HIV/AIDS strategy was
understaffed. With the creation of the "Groupe Technique Central" (GTC) the Government has
committed to try and attract qualified people who will work in the coordinating units on a full
time basis.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will support the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS strategy through the
NHAC/GTC. No special implementation arrangements will be made or institutions created for the
purpose of this project. The NHAC/GTC coordinates the contributions of various donors
(national, bi-lateral, and multi-lateral) within the broad framework of the National HIV/AIDS
programn. The IDA Credit will be only one of several sources of financial and technical assistance,
each contributing to the effective implementation of (parts of) the National HIV/AIDS strategy.
Thus, several other donors such as UNAIDS, the Agence Frangaise de Developpement, GTZ,
UNICEF, WHO or the European Union also contribute with new or ongoing projects to the
strengthening and implementation of the same national HIV/AIDS program.
The National HIV/AIDS strategy which this project supports is based on two major pillars: local
responses (support to rural and urban communities to develop and implement their own
HIV/AIDS action plans) and sector responses (support to various sectors in the economy to
develop and implement sector-specific strategies for HIV/AIDS). To strengthen the work on local
responses and sector responses, three support functions are included in the Government's
strategy: communication, planning/monitoring and evaluation, and coordination. Organizational
charts representing the design of the program are included in annex 12.
The responses developed by local communities and in each of the sectors will deal with prevention
as well as mitigation of the impact of HIV/AIDS. While the main focus of attention will go to
prevention, special attention will be given to the monitoring of the treatment, care and support
provided to people infected or affected by HIV/AIDS. To this effect, the Government has
committed to the full inclusion of PLWHA in the design and implementation of local and sector
responses, in the planning, monitoring, and evaluation of the programs, and in policy formulation
and control.
To meet the challenge of national coverage - starting with the rapid coverage of high risk areas
and groups and moving on to gradually cover all groups and areas in the country - the
Government has chosen to work through a multitude of implementing agencies. Not one
organization or sector in the country has the capacity or resources to take on the HIV/AIDS
challenge alone. However, by drawing upon all available capacity (in private and public sector,
among NGOs, civil society, religious groups, traditional healers' associations, community based
organizations, etc.) and resources (national budget, HIPC resources, donor-funded projects) the
Government hopes to establish the institutions and mechanisms needed to sustain the effort to
address HIV/AIDS over the next ten to fifteen years.
-9-



Components: The project will have five components: (a) support to local responses; (b) support
to the health sector response; (c) support to the design and implementation of sector strategies;
(d) capacity building; and (e) coordination.
(a)  Support to local response: The project will support communities' efforts with regard to
prevention and mitigation of the impact of the HIV/AIDS crisis. Under this component,
communities - facilitated by local sub-contracting agencies and NGOs - elaborate their
action plans, constitute their own HIV/AIDS committees, submit their action plans to the
communal (county) HIV/AIDS committee, open a bank account, and receive financial
resources directly from the project to assist with the implementation of their action plans
and to match their own contributions (in cash and/or kind). Strong emphasis is given to the
participatory nature of the development of community action plans, to the inclusion of all
(especially vulnerable) groups in the planning and implementation of the activities, and to
the involvement of PLWHA. As part of the component, the participatory methodologies -
which are already under implementation in the IDA funded National Extension and
Research Program (Cr. 3137 CM) - will be adapted through action/research activities to
accommodate specific work on HIV/AIDS in various social settings such as villages, urban
neighborhoods, prisons, unions of truck drivers, commercial sex workers, orphans, street
children, etc.
(b)  Support to health sector response: The implementation of specific targeted health sector
interventions geared to HIV/AIDS will be supported through the program. These include
the establishment of voluntary testing and counseling centers, the improvement of blood
transfusion safety and the management of blood banks, the increase in availability of drugs
to treat opportunistic infections, the distribution of equipment and materials for home care
of the sick, the support to private companies' efforts to fight against HIV/AIDS, the
elaboration of a tool kit and the training of traditional healers and birth attendants on
HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation, etc.
(c)  Support to the design and implementation of sector strategies: Under this component,
support will be provided to focal points in key sectors to design (or continuously improve
existing) specific HIV/AIDS strategies. Targeted sectbrs include health, communication,
transport, defense, education, agriculture, public works, youth and sport, tourism, women
affairs, mining, environment, social affairs, etc. The sector focal points will be assisted to
elaborate an action plan for the development of sector strategies. These action plans will
spell out how private enterprises, semi-private organizations and public administrations will
participate in the exercise. The sector strategies will have to address the challenges of
prevention and mitigation both among the people working in the sector, and among the
public which is being served by the sector. The strategies will also include sector-specific
communication strategies with regard to HIV/AIDS. The sector strategies will be funded
through HIPC resources, the reallocation of existing public budgets, budgets from private
enterprises, and through retrofitting of existing and new donor-funded projects.
(d)  Capacity building: The project will provide resources to help address the challenge of rapid
capacity building among those in the public sector, in the private sector, and in civil society
- 10 -



who are involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS. This component will include: training of
facilitators in implementing agencies on methodologies for community participation (in rural
areas, urban neighborhoods, and among special vulnerable groups); training of HIV/AIDS
committee members at communal, provincial and national level on strategy definition,
supervision and budgeting mechanisms, and control; training of focal points in the various
sectors on the development and implementation of HIV/AIDS strategies; training of staff in
financial institutions on the mechanisms required to ensure adequate transfer of funds in
support of communities' action plans; and training of managers, field staff, financial
management staff, planners, and controllers on their roles, functions, and job descriptions.
(e)  Coordination: The establishment of a relatively small implementation and coordination unit
at the national and provincial levels -Groupe Technique Central (GTC) and Groupe
Technique Provincial (GTP) - will be supported through this component. This component
will also support the operations of one staff in every commune. In addition, support will be
provided to the operations of HIV/AIDS committees at national, provincial, and communal
levels. The GTC and GTP will be responsible for (i) support to local responses; (ii) support
to sector responses; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of the entire program, monitoring of
support and care for PLWHA, and epidemiological surveillance; (iv) information,
communication, and education (IEC); and (v) financial management.
Indicative            Sank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
._______________________ _        f(US$M)            Total     (U$S I)  financing
Support to local response                            30.70'      51.2     27.00       54.0
Support to health sector response                      6.10      10.2      5.00       10.0
Support to the design and                              3.20       5.3      2.21        4.4
implementation of sector strategies
Capacity building                                      8.40      14.0      7.45       14.9
Coordination                                          11.60      19.3       8.34      16.7
Total Project Costs                   60.00      100.0     50.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   60.00      100.0     50.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Institutional reform: As in several other countries which participate in the Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program, there is a consensus within Government to keep the Ministry of Public
Health responsible for the overall coordination and oversight of the fight against HIV/AIDS. The
obvious disadvantage of this arrangement is that the Ministry of Health does not have the mandate
to exercise authority over other line or central ministries and would hence be hampered to ensure
implementation of a truly multi-sectoral approach to the HIV/AIDS fight. Nevertheless, the
arguments put forward by members of Government - mainly that less time would be available for
the day-to-day monitoring and supervision of the program if it were to be housed in the Prime
Minister's Office or the President's Office - do have merit and seem to be confirmed by
experience in Cameroon.
- 11 -



To ensure the multi-sectoral nature of the program, and to provide adequate external control over
project implementation and the use of resources, an independent Commission Mixte de Suivi has
been created. This commission is composed of representatives from the Ministry of Territorial
Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Investment, the Ministry of Public
Health, PLWHA, employer organizations, religious groups, UNAIDS, bi-lateral and multi-lateral
donors. Representatives from the President's Office, the Services of the Prime Minister,
Parliament, and the Judiciary sit on the Commission as independent observers. On the basis of its
external monitoring and control, the Commission Mixte de Suivi can decide about corrective
action that needs to be taken by the GTC.
Policy reform: As mentioned earlier, the current version of the National HIV/AIDS strategy is still
very much focussed on the health sector. While the strategies and activities provided for are
sound, the strategy could be strengthened if the participation of other sectors is reinforced. The
strategy would also benefit from a more accurate reflection of the current option of the
Government (mirrored in the design of this program) to base the fight against HIV/AIDS on the
two pillars of local response by urban and rural communities, and sector responses. The current
strategy is considered by the Government to be a "work in progress" and as such, there is great
willingness on the part of Government to continuously integrate further improvements in the
National HIV/AIDS strategy. The on-going work on developing and implementing the full PRSP
will also be important in ensuring a multi-sectoral focus for fighting HIV/AIDS.
Condom availability: While the social marketing program of condoms has achieved important
results (the NGO which is implementing the social marketing program claims to distribute about
one million condoms per month), a recent study ("Risk attitude, sexual behavior and spread of
AIDS and STDs in Cameroon, a situation-assessment study", Ndi Alfred, August 2000) indicates
that availability and price remain important problems. Condoms are mainly available in the large
cities and urban centers. By contrast, many young people in rural areas who, as a result of a
growing awareness about HIV/AIDS would like to practice safe sex, do not readily have access
to condoms. As part of the program, Government will undertake studies to clarify where the
bottlenecks are to make condoms more widely available and affordable for all. These studies will
allow the Government to prepare policy reforms for more effective distribution and pricing of
condoms which adequately respond to the need to remove these bottlenecks.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits                               Target Population
Reduction in the spread of HIV/AIDS in  General population, especially youth,
Cameroon                               women, and vulnerable groups
Improvement of care and support for    Close to one million people currently living
PLWHA                                  with HIV/AIDS in Cameroon
- 12 -



Increased capacity to deal with the    Rural and urban communities, vulnerable
HIV/AIDS crisis                        groups, decision makers, managers and staff
in various sectors.
Increased capacity for policy and strategy  HIV/AIDS committees at national, provincial
formulation                            and communal levels
Streamlined procedures for transfer of  Rural and urban communities, saving and
resources to communities               credit organizations, financial institutions
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation:
The institutional and implementation arrangements are described in detail in annex 2. An
organizational chart is reflected in annex 12.
The project will support the existing national structures and institutions for the fight against
HIV/AIDS and no new temporary implementation units will be created for the purpose of this
project. The overall responsibility for the implementation of the national strategy for the fight
against HIV/AIDS lays with the National HIV/AIDS Committee (NHAC) and its decentralized
entities at provincial (PHAC), communal (CHAC), and local (LHAC) level. The HIV/AIDS
Committees are responsible for the strategy definition, the approval of annual work plans and
budgets, and the supervision of the implementation of the strategies at their respective levels.
To ensure proper implementation, the HIV/AIDS Committees are supported by technical units. At
the national level, the NHAC implements its strategy through the Groupe Technique Central
(GTC). At the provincial level, the PHAC works through the Groupe Technique Provincial
(GTP), and at the communal level, the CHAC is assisted by a Correspondant Communal (CC).
The staff in the GTC, GTP, and CC work on a full time basis.
The Groupe Technique Central (GTC) is managed by a Permanent Secretary and is composed of
five sections: (i) a section for support to local responses; (ii) a section for support to sector
responses; (iii) an operational section, responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the entire
program, monitoring of support and care for PLWHA, and epidemiological surveillance; (iv) a
section responsible for information, communication, and education (IEC); and (v) a financial
management section. The Groupe Technique Provincial (GTP) is managed by a provincial
manager and comprises the same sections as the GTC.
Several aspects of the program implementation will be sub-contracted. These include:
-     Facilitation of community participation processes: At the beginning of program
implementation, the PHAC/GTP will identify all organizations in the province who have capacity
to facilitate participation processes at the community level. Annual contracts will be established
- 13-



between the PHAC/GTP and these organizations to specify which organization will be responsible
for facilitation of participatory processes in which areas. The contract will also stipulate the
financial and technical support the sub-contracting agencies will receive from the project to carry
out their assignment. The sub-contracting agencies' field work will be supervised by the
PHAC/GTP.
-     Communication strategy: The design and implementation of NHAC/GTC's
communication strategies, which constitutes one of the key tools in the fight against HIV/AIDS,
will be sub-contracted. Initially, the GTC will recruit a specialized agency to develop an
appropriate communication strategy. Depending on the features of the strategy, one or more
agencies will be contracted to implement (aspects of) the strategy. Within the GTC, the section
responsible for IEC will ensure supervision of the sub-contractors.
-     Accounting and transfer of funds: The GTC will have the overall responsibility for the
financial management of the program, but will execute this financial management through private
firms. To maximize efficiency, the accounting of the program, the transfer of funds to
communities, and the preparation of documentation to be submitted to the CAA for the
replenishment of the special accounts will be contracted out.
-     Epidemiological and behavioral surveys: While the operational section of the GTC is
responsible for the implementation of the epidemiological and behavioral surveys and for the
timely production of reports, the actual surveys will be sub-contracted. By doing so, the GTC
hopes to gain in efficiency, and to avoid having to recruit an important number of staff to carry
out these surveys.
The development of the sector specific HIV/AIDS strategies will be implemented by focal points
in the respective sectors. To ensure ownership of the sector strategies by the various actors in
each sector (private companies, public administrations, civil society, and the public at large), the
focal points will remain employed by their respective sector organizations. The focal points will
establish work plans in conjunction with representatives from all partners in the sector to
elaborate the sector specific strategies. The relationship between the focal points and the GTC
will not be hierarchical, but will be one of coaching and support: the GTC will provide technical
guidance to ensure that the strategies are sound and to avoid duplication between the various
sector strategies. The NHAC/GTC will also finance the activities that will be carried out to
develop the sector strategies. However, the financing of the implementation of the sector
strategies will be assured through HIPC, through reallocations in the existing sector budgets, and
through reallocation within donor-funded projects.
Project supervision, reporting, and audit requirements:
The Program Implementation Manual (PIM) will delineate processes and responsibilities for
general management, procurement activities, and financial management and control, including
Terms of Reference for internal and external audits acceptable to IDA. The PIM, which will be
submitted to IDA for its approval, will be finalized and adopted as a condition for Credit
Effectiveness. As the proposed implementation arrangements are partially based on experience in
- 14 -



other countries, the adaptation of these arrangements will need to be seen as a continuous process
responding to local circumstances. Consequently, the PIM will be reviewed and amended by
mutual agreement with IDA as and when needed, with the first revised PIM being issued before
January 31, 2002. In order for implementation to proceed without having to wait for the
preparation of the PIM, Interim Program Implementation Procedures (IPIP) were developed
during project preparation. The IPIP will first be reviewed during the launch workshop which will
take place before February 28, 2001. All parties involved in the implementation of the different
components of the project as well as representatives from beneficiaries will participate in the
workshop.
The NHAC/GTC will submit to IDA an annual work program and on this basis will submit
quarterly progress reports on achievements and problems. Similarly, it will obtain annual work
programs and quarterly progress reports from all implementing agencies. The PIM will further
elaborate on reporting requirements.
Financial audits for all accounts and components will be carried out annually by an independent
auditor in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Financial audits will be submitted by the GTC to the
Commission Mixte de Suivi and to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Performance and impact audits as set out in the PIM will also be carried out to assess the project's
contribution to Cameroon's HIV/AIDS program. In addition to the mandatory annual audit
exercises, any of the members of the Commission Mixte de Suivi can order at any time an audit or
examination of any complaint received by the Commission Mixte de Suivi about the
implementation of the program or about the use of the resources.
IDA's supervision of the project will need to be full-time and staff-intensive, given the
"learning-by-doing" concept used for the project design. This will be especially important prior to
Credit effectiveness as a host of activities must be undertaken to maximize implementation in the
four years of the project. In the first project year, IDA staff will have to take active part in the
project launch and PIM review workshops, the workshop to review implementation progress
toward the end of the year, and workshops on project implementation experience (preferably to
take place at the provincial level). To be able to make effective contributions during the various
workshops, IDA staff will have to focus on field visits to supervise the start-up of the program on
the ground. The supervision needs for the following three years are unlikely to diminish, as the
community-level program will see rapid expansion each year. On an annual basis, workshops will
be organized to discuss experience and to scale up best practices. Supervision support from the
Country Office will include close monitoring by the financial management specialist, the
procurement specialist, and the disbursement specialist.
Procurement procedures:
The above implementation arrangements will be supported by procurement procedures that take
into account the urgency of the project as well as the nature of the participating institutions.
Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular Section 3.15,
- 15-



Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services by firms, organizations, or
individuals financed by IDA will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999). With respect to the support to local responses, the Bank's
simplified Procurement and Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments will be
used. To facilitate speedy import of items valued at less than US$ 100,000 equivalent required
urgently for diagnosis/treatment and institutional strengthening, contracts may be made based on
international shopping and national shopping procedures, respectively, per IDA Procurement
Guidelines (Clauses 3.5 and 3.6), provided contract awards are made within 12 months of the
Credit effectiveness date. International procurement will also take place through procurement
from the United Nations (i.e. IAPSO).
Given the urgency of the project, a wide-ranging General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first
year of operations will be placed on the United Nations Development Business web site without a
need for hard-copy publication. The Borrower will prepare a procurement plan for the first year
of project operations to be included in the PIM. The plan will include relevant information on
goods, works, and consulting services under the project as well as the timing of each milestone in
the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every quarter and reviewed
by IDA.
Procurement performance (including community based procurement activities) will be assessed on
an annual basis (in the form of procurement/physical audits by an external agency). In addition to
the formal annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically. Details of
procurement arrangements are provided in annex 6.
Financial management:
The project will have an adequate financial management system in place by Credit effectiveness.
Appropriate safeguards will be included in the design of the financial management system; these
safeguards include the appointment of an internationally qualified Financial Manager, the
sub-contracting of accounting to a specialized private company, the direct transfer of funds to
communities, the direct payment from PHAC/GTP to sub-contracting agencies responsible for the
support to local communities, and close links between and analysis of financial and physical
progress reports.
Not all executing entities (e.g., sectoral focal points, GTC, etc.) have established financial
management systems adequate for the project's demands. Before disbursing funds to these
entities, the NHAC/GTC will need to confirm that appropriate financial management systems are
in place, including the opening of project bank accounts and employment of qualified accounts
staff.
A detailed assessment of the financial management and internal control systems is presented in
Attachment 2.
- 16-



Disbursement procedures:
Under this Credit the estimated IDA financing for the first six months of project implementation
will be disbursed into two Special Accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Both
Special Accounts will be operated by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement.
All disbursements against expenditures originating from local currency project accounts will be
made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). All procurement contracts not subject to IDA
prior review will be disbursed against SOEs and documentation will be retained by the respective
administrations and made available for review by IDA financial management and procurement
specialists and project financial and procurement auditors. Expenditures by communities will be
subject to simplified accounting procedures, review of interim reports, and random ex-post
financial, physical, and technical audit to be carried out by financial and technical consultants
employed by the NHAC/GTC and PHAC/GTP.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project preparation team was guided by the work done under the first phase of the
Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region. In addition, the team drew upon field
experiences from Cameroon and from other African countries to ensure that the program would
be truly multi-sectoral and would focus heavily on the empowerment of communities in the fight
against HIV/AIDS.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
l    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project        j       (PSR) Ratings
=                                          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health, Fertility and Nutrition  U           U
Project
National Extension and          S            S
Research Support Project
Transport Sector Project        S            S
Cameroon Petroleum
Environment Capacity
Enhancement Project (not yet
effective)
Public-Private Partnerships for
Growth and Poverty Reduction
(not yet effective)
- 17-



Other development agencies
WHO/UNDP/CMRJ97/002                 Health Sector project for the
fight against HIV/AIDS. The
project includes management of
the project, assistance on IEC
and epidemiological
surveillance of the disease,
treatment for sexual transmitted
diseases, and medical and
psychological support for
people living with WV.
Cooperation Frangaise (FAC/AIDS)    Health Sector project for the
fight against HIV/AIDS.
Support includes IEC and
epidemiological surveillance of
the disease, treatment for sexual
transmitted diseases, and
laboratories.
GTZ                                 Health sector: support for
epidemiological surveillance of
HIV/AIDS.
European Union                      Health sector: support for
epidemiological surveillance of
HIV/AIDS.
UNICEF                              Health sector: support to IEC,
media and NGOs working on
HIV/AIDS.
HIV/AIDS Peer education
program.
Support to the planning,
monitoring and evaluation of
sector specific HIV/AIDS
strategies.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 18 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Scaling up to reach national coverage: From experience in Cameroon and elsewhere, it became
clear that the biggest challenge for HIV/AIDS programs was the scaling up. As in other countries,
several excellent initiatives on HIV/AIDS exist. However, these initiatives tend to be fairly small
in size and work in an isolated fashion. As a result, only a small fraction of the needs with regard
to supporting the fight against HIV/AIDS are covered. The strategies for scaling up have been
derived from experience gained through large programs such as the agricultural services programs
in several African countries.
Sub-contracting: The experience with most projects in Cameroon (Health and Nutrition Project,
Micro-credit, Extension and Research, etc.) indicates that the public service alone does not have
the implementation capacity required for this type of operation. During the design of the
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program, the preparation team reached agreement with Governnent on
the need to work through a multitude of implementing agencies, which is also one of the criteria
to qualify for MAP eligibility.
Community participation: From experience throughout Africa, it became clear that information,
education and communication alone do not lead to behavior change in the fight against
HIV/AIDS. However, when community participation methodologies are being used, a change in
behavior can be seen. These findings were extensively discussed and documented by delegations
from eighteen African countries during a workshop on community participation and HIV/AIDS
which was organized in Mwanza, Tanzania in June 2000. Several experiences - among others
TANESA (Tanzania), Gaoua (Burkina Faso), Abengourou (Ivory Coast) and others - have
adequately demonstrated that behavior change can be reached through participatory approaches
to the development of local responses. These findings have been at the basis of the design of the
local response component of the proposed program.
Transfer of resources to communities: The experience with social funds and community based
operations illustrates clearly the gains in efficiency and effectiveness of micro-projects if
communities are given direct access to the financial resources. The proposed design of this
operation builds upon the lessons from the cornmunity based development operations and features
the direct transfer of financial resources to communities. This seems especially appropriate in the
Cameroonian context where the high degree of centralization of budget allocation decisions, and
the tedious character of transfer of resources to the front line are specific constraints that need to
be overcome.
- 1 9-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since April 2000, there has been a remarkable increase in commitment by the Government with
regard to HIV/AIDS. After many years of very modest commitment to the fight against
HIV/AIDS, the Government has recently - with the help of UNAIDS - accellerated the
production of an emergency strategy. This strategy, while still heavily focussing on the health
sector, is considered by the Government to be a working document and will continuously be
improved as the understanding of how to best address the HIV/AIDS crisis in Cameroon deepens.
Specifically, the Government plans to flesh out how to make the strategy truly multi-sectoral. The
Prime Minister launched the strategy in an official ceremony with the entire cabinet and in the
presence of the donor community and civil society. At the occasion of the launching, the Prime
Minister made a very strong speech, outlining the catastrophic dimensions of the epidemic in
Cameroon, the impact it is having on all sectors of society, and the risks for an even bigger
catastrophe if no immediate action is taken. The PM's speech was printed in its entirety in the
newspapers on two different occasions, and articles/programs about HIV/AIDS appear almost
daily on TV and in the written press.
The breaking of the silence on HIV/AIDS in Cameroon has been translated in budgetary
allocations. The 2000 budget of the Ministry of Public Health was increased by 2 billion CFAF to
address the HIV/AIDS crisis. In addition, the fight against HIV/AIDS is one of the seven priority
areas of intervention for using the HIPC resources.
Of late there have also been an increasing number of occasions where individual members of
Government such as the Ministers of Health, Agriculture, Communication, and Social Affairs
have staged a push to increase the effectiveness of their respective departments' responses to
HIV/AIDS. For example, the National Extension and Research program has currently trained
over 560,000 farm families on HIV/AIDS and the ways and means to prevent it. All staff of the
National Extension Service receive weekly allocations of condoms. Another example was a joint
initiative by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Communication to organize meetings with
all private and public press organizations (written press, radio and TV) to launch the process to
determine and implement adequate communication strategies.
Because of its compliance with the eligibility criteria, Cameroon has been included in the list of
countries that can apply for access to the MAP resources:
Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS: With the official launching of the
HIV/AIDS strategy on September 12, 2000, the Prime Minister and the entire Government have
put their political weight behind the implementation of the strategy. The strategy already provides
a reasonable framework for the design of the MAP program. At the same time, it is clear that the
National HIV/AIDS committee (NHAC) and the Minister of Health want to continually improve
the strategy to incorporate lessons learned through implementation.
A high-level HIV/AIDS coordinating body: The NHAC, which has been weak in the past, is
currently being revamped. The Minister of Health also appointed the technical units (GTC and
GTP) which will be responsible to assist the NHAC and the PHAC with the implementation of the
national program. IDA has received satisfactory evidence that both the committees and the GTC
- 20 -



are being staffed with qualified people.
Appropriate implementation arrangements: The Government has articulated a two-pronged
implementation strategy focussing on support to local responses from communities (urban, rural,
and vulnerable groups) and on the development and implementation of sector specific strategies.
The bulk of activities will be sub-contracted to a multitude of implementing agencies, both in the
private and public sectors.
Use and funding of multiple implementation agencies: As part of the project preparation process,
the Government is actively involved in consultations and meetings with communities, people
living with HIV/AIDS, religious leaders, NGOs, and traditional healers. There is a clear
understanding that the implementation of the HIV/AIDS strategy will require the full participation
of all these actors. There is also a consensus that the bulk of the resources to be mobilized under
the MAP will have to be channeled to communities to support the implementation of their
HIV/AIDS action plans.
Communication strategy: In addition to the progress on the four eligibility criteria for the MAP,
the Government has also understood the need to develop an adequate and diversified
communication strategy. While considerable media attention goes to HIV/AIDS, it is clear that
much remains to be done to develop a diversified communication strategy, tailored to the needs of
various groups. The development of this communication strategy figures prominently in the
broader HIV/AIDS strategy.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Through its involvement in various sectors in Cameroon and its experience with supporting large,
decentralized and field oriented operations such as the National Extension and Research Program,
IDA is well placed to assist the Government to make the national effort to fight HIV/AIDS truly
multi-sectoral and field-oriented. As an active member of the UNAIDS group, IDA can contribute
to galvanizing the support from various international agencies and donors. IDA's involvement in
the support to the HIV/AIDS program is leveraged by the focus given to HIV/AIDS in the public
expenditure review exercises, the on-going Health, Fertility and Nutrition Project, the Poverty
Reduction Strategy, the allocation of HIPC resources, and the possible retro-fitting of existing
operations. Thanks to the availability of resources under the Multi Country HIV/AIDS Program
(MAP), IDA is able to quickly mobilize the financial resources needed to support the Government
in the implementation of its emergency HIV/AIDS program. Finally, IDA's support can also be
instrumental to attract other donor's attention to complement the IDA Credit with additional
grant money.
In addition, IDA has worked closely with the Government to develop specific HIV/AIDS
prevention and mitigation measures for both the pre-construction and construction phases of the
Chad/Cameroon pipeline. This will benefit communities along the pipeline route and migratory
workers who will be involved in the pipeline construction and who constitute one of the most
vulnerable groups. Due to IDA's work, the inclusion of HIV/AIDS prevention measures in the
Chad/Cameroon Pipeline Project is a flagship example of galvanizing government, private sector
- 21 -



and Bank partnerships for anticipating risks on HIV/AIDS and tackling the issue in the framework
of a non-health operation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
CJ Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
C' Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Mobilization of grant resources: To be able to cover the cost of the HIV/AIDS program in
Cameroon, the proposed IDA credit alone will not be enough. Additional grant resources are
being sought. At the time of preparation, it was not yet clear to what extent and under which
timetable these resources could be mobilized.
Allocation of HIPC resources: It was specified in the HIPC documents that HIV/AIDS should be
one of the priority areas to allocate resources stemming from the debt reduction. During appraisal,
it was agreed with Government that sector specific HIV/AIDS strategies would be eligible for
HIPC funding after certification by the NHAC/GTC that the strategy is sound and without
duplication of other sector strategies.
Use of sector budgets: Beyond additional grants and the allocation of HIPC resources, each
sector will have to re-allocate resources out of their respective budgets to finance the
sector-specific HIV/AIDS strategies. Each sector will, in addition, have to examine to what extent
existing donor-funded projects can be retro-fitted to include HIV/AIDS.
Fiscal Impact:
N/A
3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The program will be implemented through a multitude of sub-contracting agencies. Given the very
limited experience in Cameroon with program implementation through (semi-)private
organizations, special attention should be given to the procedures and modalities for selecting and
contracting these agencies. The Interim Implementation Manual clarifies the procedures that will
be used. Before the launching workshop, the Interim Implementation Manual will be updated to
include samples of contracts between implementing agencies and the national and provincial
- 22 -



HIV/AIDS committees.
4.2 Project management:
At the time of appraisal, the Permanent Secretary and all the Section Chiefs in the GTC had been
appointed. This team has been the driving force behind the development of the Interim
Implementation Manual and has moved agressively to start with the implementation of the
program in the field.
4.3 Procurement issues:
More than half of the resources made available through this program will be channeled directly to
communities to support the implementation of their action plans. The Bank's guidelines for
community based procurement will be adapted to the Cameroonian situation and to the specific
needs for this program so as to simplify as much as possible the procedures that will be used for
procurement at the community level.
The overall procurement risk in Cameroon is high. In October 2000, the Bank carried out a major
exercise to review procurement arrangements in Cameroon. As a result of that mission, efforts are
going on to simplify, streamline, and strengthen procurement procedures in the country.
With regard to ICB, there is an agreement of principle with the Minister of Health, who is
chairing the National HIV/AIDS Committee, that IAPSO will be used to the extent possible. By
doing so, the program should be able to escape the considerable difficulties and delays other Bank
projects have suffered from when going through the National Tender Board.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During appraisal, it was agreed that the accounting of the operation and the direct transfer of
funds to communities would be sub-contracted to specialized firms and agencies.
A financial management manual will be submitted to the Bank within two months after Board
approval. Since most of the resources to communities and to sub-contracting agencies will be
transferred on the basis of work programs or action plans, special attention will go to the random
ex-post auditing and control mechanisms and to establishment of clear procedures for penalties
and refund of monies in case of mis-use of funds.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The handling and disposal of HIV/AIDS infected materials is the most significant environmental
issue in the context of this program. In many countries, the inappropriate handling of HIV/AIDS
infected materials constitute a risk not only for the staff in hospitals and in municipalities who are
involved in waste handling, but also for families and street children who scavenge on dump sites.
Some aspects of project implementation (e.g. the establishment of testing clinics, the purchasing
of equipment by communities for home care of the sick, etc.) could constitute an increase in the
environmental risk with regard to the handling of HIV/AIDS infected waste.
The examination on the current practices with regard to the handling of hospital waste will verify
- 23 -



both the management of waste within the hospitals and the management of waste by municipal
authorities once it has left the hospital. It will also look into the level of knowledge among staff
(hospital orderlies, municipal managers and workers) about the practices to be adopted, and into
the availability of equipment such as incinerators to deal with this type of waste.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Prior to Credit Effectiveness, the GTC will develop an Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
to address the issues mentioned above. Specifically, the EMP will provide hospitals, clinics and
HIV/AIDS testing centers with appropriate equipment for the disposal of HIV/AIDS infected
materials. The plan will also provide for the training of staff in medical facilities as well as staff
and managers involved in waste disposal at the municipal and communal level on the techniques
and procedures for proper treatment and handling of HIV/AIDS related waste. Finally, the EMP
will provide for the discussion of the environment hazard of HIV/AIDS waste in the participatory
processes with specific vulnerable groups such as the street children and people living in waste
disposal areas.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Specific discussions and consultations will take place in the framework of the development of the
Health Sector HIV/AIDS strategy and in the context of the HIV/AIDS committees at provincial
and communal level.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The monitoring indicators will be identified in the course of the development of the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Two social issues should be flagged: (a) the involvement of people living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA) in the design and the implementation of the program, and (b) the inclusion of highly
vulnerable groups such as prisoners, commercial sex workers, street children, truck drivers, etc.
With regard to PLWHA, the experience in Cameroon and other countries shows that special
measures should be taken to protect the rights of PLWHA. The program has addressed these
issues through the integration of PLWHA in the design of the project. PLWHA will also be
systematically associated in the implementation so that critical issues can be flagged by the
beneficiaries themselves and so that appropriate action can be taken in a timely fashion.
Concerning highly vulnerable groups, the participatory methodologies which have been developed
for rural and urban areas may not always be appropriate. For example, the methodologies will
need to be adapted to the various specific social environments (prison, street, waste dump sites,
etc.). Action/research will be undertaken as part of the program to ensure the adaptation of these
- 24 -



methodologies.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders               Participation in the program
People living with         Will participate through representation in the HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDS                   committees at all levels (National, Provincial, and communal).
PLWHA will be explicitly represented in each of these
committees as well as in the organism that will have the
responsibility to overlook and control the entire program in all
its aspects.
Rural, urban, and special  Will participate through the establishment of priority action
communities                plans as the result of participatory exercises. They will receive
direct financial resources to support the implementation of
priority action plans.
Sector organizations       Private and public enterprises and organizations will participate
actively in the development and implementation of
sector-specific HIV/AIDS strategies through the appointment of
(and support to) sectoral focal points. These focal points will
have the responsibility to coach the sector-specific strategy
definition and to ensure full involvement of all organizations in
the sector.
NGOs, civil society,       Civil society organizations will participate as sub-contracting
religious groups           agencies both for the implementation of the local response
component, and for the development of sector-specific
responses. Organizations that enter into contractual
arrangements with the respective HIV/AIDS committees will
receive specific terms of reference as well as budgetary
envelopes to allow proper implementation. These organizations
will also receive supervision of field activities and random
control on the use of funds.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs will be involved as implementing agencies, especially in the local response component. The
role of NGOs will be to assist communities with the participation process to determine action
plans. The implementation manual will spell out the procedures and criteria for identification,
selection and contracting of NGOs. During program launching, workshops will be organized in
each of the ten provinces and at the national level to discuss and agree with the potential
implementing agencies on the methodologies, work organization, budgets, supervision
- 25 -



mechanisms, and procedures for financial control.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
NGOs and civil society organizations (organizations of PLWHA, religious groups, members of
Parliament, etc.) will be members of the HIV/AIDS committees at the various levels (communal,
provincial and national) and will be members of the Commission Mixte de Suivi, the body which is
providing the external control to the program. The role of the organizations of PLWHA should be
especially emphasized. Their systematic inclusion in the steering and supervision of the program
should ensure that the needs and priorities of PLWHA are being adequately addressed, or that
proper remedial action is being taken when this is not the case.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in tenns of social development outcomes?
Social outcomes and key human development indicators will be monitored as part of the HIPC
initiative, and particularly those resources allocated to HIV/AIDS.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
I:lic VAt0000N140; AD00 00                 *pplicabi
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           C Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  C Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntarv Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    C Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         C Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Given the very low probability that an HIV/AIDS vaccine would be developed in the near future,
and given the rampaging spread of the HIV/AIDS crisis in Cameroon, it is a near certainty that
Cameroon will have to address the issue of prevention and mitigation of the HIV/AIDS crisis over
at least the next ten to fifteen years. Apart from the humanitarian dimension - close to one million
people in Cameroon are already infected with the virus and (even under the most optimistic
program implementation scenario) several hundreds of thousands are likely to be added to this
number - coping with HIV/AIDS is a prerequisite to safeguard any economic or social progress
the country has made in the past and will make in the future.
The design of the program is made in such a way that the efforts which are being deployed now
can be sustained over a ten to fifteen year period. Specifically, this has implications for the
- 26 -



allocation of budgetary resources and the remuneration of staff. With regard to budgetary
resources, a conscious decision has been made to use the proposed program as a leverage tool to
mobilize additional resources within the budgets of various sectors, and in donor-funded projects.
Thus, the sustainability of the effort is increased by spreading the budgetary burden over a larger
number of sources of financing. With regard to the remuneration of staff, the Government has
decided to provide only such compensation which can be sustained over a longer period of time.
The litmus test for the sustainability of the program will lay with the quality of the field and sector
work. To the extent that the various stakeholders and people in all different social groups take
ownership of the fight against HIV/AIDS, Cameroon will be able to build up its capacity to deal
with the crisis over an extended period of time. This is one of the reasons why special attention is
being given during the preparation and launching period of the program to adapt the participatory
methodologies which are known from ongoing community development efforts to the specific
HIV/AIDS challenge.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government reverses or fails to follow-up   M          Detailed discussion of sub-contracting
on the strategy to implement HIV/AIDS                  arrangements with various stakeholders in
program through multitude of                           Government and among civil society to ensure
sub-contracting organizations.                         ownership of the proposed implementation
arrangements.
Sufficient capacity to implement the        M          Organization of provincial workshops to ensure
HIV/AIDS program is not found among                    that all available capacity is being mobilized;
NGOs, CBOs, religious groups, etc.                     Provision of substantial capacity building
component to strengthen capacity where needed.
HIV/AIDS program fails to transfer           S         Attempt to sub-contract financial management
resources to communities in a timely and               and transfer of resources to private firm.
transparent fashion.
Due to fear, shame and denial,               M         Action/research being carried out to develop and
communities resist to address HIV/AIDS.                adapt participatory methodologies to address
specifically HIV/AIDS at the community level.
Financial sector institutions are too thinly  S        Study implemented by Central Bank with
spread to allow transfer of resources                  assistance from World Bank Financial Sector
directly to communities.                               Specialists to map financial agencies in the
country.
Frequent delays in transfer of resources     S         Study to identify and alleviate constraints and
between various financial institutions and             causes for delays with regard to the transfer of
from their HQ to their respective front                resources to communities.
line agencies.
Failure of MOH to mobilize additional        M         Discussions with the HIPC committee and
resources to finance implementation of                 bilateral donors about the allocation of
HIV/AIDS health strategy.                              resources.
- 27 -



Condoms not used by recipients.              M         Preparation of reforms needed to ensure better
availability of condoms and to provide type of
condoms in line with consumer preferences.
Sufficient capacity not found among          M         Training of sectoral focal points provided for in
private and public organizations in                   the capacity building component
various sectors to establish teams to
elaborate sector-specific HIV/AIDS
strategies.
Coordination units not adequately staffed.   S         Training of staff provided for in capacity
building component.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of capacity at local, communal,         M         Training provided in capacity building
provincial, and national level to                      component
implement the program.
Government fails to rely on multitude of     M         Detailed discussion of sub-contracting
implementing agencies to support local                 arrangements with various stakeholders in
responses.                                             Government and among civil society to ensure
ownership of the proposed implementation
arrangements.
Failure to transfer resources to             S         Collaboration with financial sector specialists to
communities                                           identify and alleviate bottlenecks.
Unappropriate use of resources due to        H         Strong audit and control mechanisms.
weak governance
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 28 -



On the Bank side:
Given the multi-sectoral nature of the country project design, the limited capacity of the newly
created NAC, the number of concerned public and private parties involved in project
implementation, and the use of funding mechanisms through new structures that have not been
tried and tested, Bank supervision and monitoring of project implementation will require more
than standard supervision. The Bank will have to ensure that: i) funding substantially above
current supervision coefficients is provided; ii) the supervision task team is composed of Bank
staff from various sectors and from both headquarters and country offices; iii) specialists in key
fiduciary areas such as financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and social
assessment are part of the supervision team; iv) the HI V/AIDS project receives regular attention
from country and sector management, especially during the first year of implementation; v) the
Country Of fice maintains its capacity to provide close supervision to the implementation of the
project; and vi) ACTafr ica, UNhAIDS, and major stakeholders outside the Bank remain involved
in assessing progress. In addition, the existing partnership between the Bank's country team and
ACTafrica should be continued.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Credit Conditions
1[. Effectiveness Conditions
*The Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit of CFAF 450 million paid into
the Project Account;
- the NHAC/GTC has adopted a program implementation manual in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA;
* the NHAC/GTC has adopted a financial and accounting procedures manual in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA;
* the NHAC/GTC has established an accounting and financial management system for the
Project satisfactory to IDA; and
* the NHAC/GTC has employed accounting firms for GTC and GTPs.
2. Other LclassifY according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* The Ministerial decision required for the establishment and operation of the GTPs in each of
the ten Provinces will be a disbursement condition for subprojects.
* An agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Health and CENAME
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA for the provision of drugs to treat HI V/AIDS
related opportunistic infections, including availability and price ceilings, will be a condition for
the release of US$500,000 for the procurement of drugs through CENAME. The agreement
will also specify the modalities for the finanlcial management of the fund.
- 29 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Zi 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The GTC has elaborated an Interim Implementation Manual which was reviewed during appraisal.
Within two months after Board presentation, the Interim Implementation Manual will be
completed with standard TOR for various sub-contracting agencies, and standard contracts for
sub-contracting agencies.
A consulting firm was hired to prepare the financial management manual. During appraisal, a first
draft of this manual was reviewed by the Appraisal team's financial management specialists. The
manual will be completed within two months after Board presentation.
A detailed procurement plan for the first year of project implementation will be elaborated before
January 31, 2001. The GTC has recruited a procurement specialist to ensure the timely
completion of this task.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
OP/BP 10.02 calls for the expenditures for audit reports to be considered as operating costs.
However, for reasons of disbursement percentages and procurement methods, it will greatly
facilitate the project if audits are included in the disbursement category "Consultancies, Training,
and Audits".
ime E. Weetjens               Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                 Robert Calderisi
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIVIAIDS Project
Kay Perfoiiance
Hierarchy of Ofebtives ltsndkom                       MonIoorg & Evalyaon    Critic  Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To mitigate the negative social By 2005 HIV prevalence will National HIV/AIDS      Commitment by Government
and economic impact of     be reduced to below 10%     surveillance reports, midterm  to maintain the leadership in
HIV/AIDS in Cameroon.      among young pregnant        review, and end of project    the fight against HIV/AIDS
women (age 15 - 19 years    evaluation.
old).
National HIV/AIDS
60% of tuberculosis patients  surveillance reports, midterm
will have completed DOTS by review, and end of project
2005                       evaluation.
- 31 -



lllerarph  of    0                                           111I ,   Evalt&on    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome I Impact            Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To curb the spread and the    HIV/AIDS prevalence among  Base line and follow-up  The use of participatory
impact of the HIV/AIDS    young pregnant women (age  surveys.                   methodologies to design and
epidemic in Cameroon       15 to 19) under 10%.                                  implement community action
through the strengthening of                          Base line and follow-up    plans and the elaboration of
communities' capacity to  5000 rural and urban       surveys/ reports.          sector specific HIV/AIDS
design and implement action  communities will have                               strategies will lead to
plans for HIV/AIDS and    designed and implemented                              attitudinal and behavior
through support to the design  their action plans for                           change.
and implementation of sector HIV/AIDS prevention and
specific HIV/AIDS strategies. mitigation.                                       Availability of local NGOs
Base line and follow-up   with sufficient capacity to
The following sectors will   surveys.                 implement community-based
have designed and                                     initiatives.
implemented their sector
specific HIV/AIDS strategies:                         Willingness of NGOs, civil
health, education, agriculture,                       society, private sector and
communication, transport,                             public administrations to
defense, tourism, youth and                           participate.
sport.
Close coordination with health
Access to treatment for                              sector activities designed to
opportunistic infections   Annual reports.            reduce the spread of
increased from 30% to 50%.                            HIV/AIDS and its impact.
Annual production of                                  The Secretariat will have
HIV/AIDS prevalence                                   sufficient autonomy to operate
surveillance results and                             in an effective manner.
HIV/AIDS vulnerability
mapping.
- 32 -



Key Pertonnance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Ifdicators          Monitor1rkg& EvazuftIon    Crffcal Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Capacity of HIV/AIDS   1.1. Functioning HIV/AIDS   1.1. Reports from Communal, Continued Government
Councils, Government      Councils with well established Provincial, and National  support to deveop partnerships
Agencies, Non Governmental work programs will have   HIV/AIDS committees.      with NGOs, CBOs, POs, and
Organizations (NGOs),     increased as follows:                                Civil society.
Community Based           - 1,000 communities will have                        Continued Government
Organizations (CBOs), Private councils by the end of year 1;                   support to funding
sector, and Civil society at all - 5,000 communities will have                 mechanisms.
levels built.             councils by the end of year 4;
- 100 communes will have
councils by the end of year 1;
- 300 communes will have
councils by the end of year 4;
- All 1O provinces will have
councils by the end of year l;
1.2. Staff in implementing    1.2. Reports from Provincial
agencies will have been   and National H1V/AeDS
trained to support        Committees.
participatory development of
action plans as follows:
- Staff in 30 implementing
agencies trained by the end of
year 1;
Staff in 100 implementing
agencies trained by the end of
year 4t.
1.3. Sector Focal Points will  1.3. Reports from Focal Points
and National and Provincial
have been trained on the  HVAD   omtes
design, budgeting, and    HIV/AlDS Commitees.
coordination of sector specific
HIV/AIDS strategies
involving both public
administration and private
enterprises as follows:
- 8 Focal Points will have been
trained at the national level by
the end of year l;
- 80 Focal Points will have
been trained at the provincial  1.4. Reports from coordination
level by the end of year 4.    unit.
1.4. Managers and staff in the
coordination units at the
national, provincial and
communal level will have
been trained.
- 33 -



2. Community HIV/AIDS    2.1. Provincial HIV/AIDS     2.1. Reports from Provincial  Government's continued
Committees establish and  Committees will have        HIV/AIDS Committees;      willingness to work through a
implement action plans for   identified and contracted  Contracts with implementing  variety of implementing
HIV/AIDS prevention and    implementing agencies to    agencies; Financial records.  agencies;
mitigation.               facilitate participatory                              Availability and willingness of
processes at the community                           implementing agencies to
level and to support                                 participate in the process;
communities in the
development of their
HIV/AiDS action plans as
follows:
- 30 implementing agencies
identified and contracted by
the end of year I of the
project;
- 50 implementing agencies
identified and contracted by
the end of year 4 of the
project;
2.2. Implementing agencies   2.2. Reports from        Willingness of communities to
will have facilitated the  implementing agencies;     discuss HIV/AIDS and to
participatory design and   reports from Provincial    design and implement their
implementation of community HIV/AIDS Committees.      action plans.
action plans against
HIV/AIDS as follows:
- 1,000 communities will have
designed their HIV/AIDS
action plans by the end of year
I of the project;
- 5,000 communities will have
designed their HIV/AIDS
action plans by the end of year
4 of the project;
2.3. Communities will have   2.3. Reports from financial   Financial sector provides
opened accounts and received management unit; reports    adequate institutional capacity
funding from the           from ex-post audit exercise;  to accommodate several
Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS    reports from Communal     thousands of accounts for
Project as follows:        HIV/AIDS Committees.       communities in (sometimes
- 1,000 communities will have                         remote) rural and urban areas.
opened accounts and received                          Diligence in financial
at least one tranche of funding                       management and
by the end of year I of the                           disbursement procedures
project;                                              allows timely replenishment of
- 5,000 communities will have                         community accounts.
opened accounts and received
at least one tranche of funding
by the end of year I of the
project;
- 34 -



3. Implementation of the   3.1. Drugs for the treatment of Reports from MOH; Reports  MOH can mobilize additional
Health Sector HIV/AIDS     STD and tuberculosis and    from Communal and         resources to finance health
strategy                   opportunistic diseases will be  Provincial HIV/AIDS   sector HIV/AIDS strategy
available in 90% of health    Committees; Reports from    through HIPC and through
institutions in participating    associations of PLWHA  donor financing;
Communes by end of the
project;
3.2 30 Voluntary Counseling Reports from MOH; Reports
and Testing Centers        from associations of PLWHA
established and operational by
end of Project;
3.3. Availability of medication Reports from MOH, Reports
to prevent mother-to-child    from Communal & Provincial
transmission in 50 % of natal HIV/AIDS Committees;
clinics.                   Reports from associations of
PLWHA
3.4. Systematic screening of  Reports from MOH, Reports
blood in 60 % of blood banks. from Communal & Provincial
HIV/AIDS Committees        The condoms distributed will
3.5. Increase from 30% to 60  Reports from MOH, Reports  be used by the recipients.
% in covering of demand for  from Communal & Provincial
condoms.                   HIV/AIDS Committees
3.6. Availability of gloves and Reports from MOH, Reports
basic equipment for home care from Communal and
of terminal HIV/AIDS       Provincial HIV/AIDS
patients in 50 % of front line  Committees; Reports from
health facilities.         associations of PLWHA
3.7. Toolkit will be available  Reports from MOH, Reports
and Traditional Healers and   from Communal and
Traditional Birth Attendants  Provincial HIV/AIDS
will have been trained on  Committees; Reports from
HIV/AIDS prevention and    associations of traditional
mitigation.                healers.
- 35 -



4. Design and implementation 4.1. Elaboration of action   Reports from National        Sectors identify qualified
of sector-specific HIV/AIDS   plans by sector Focal Points to HIV/AIDS Committee       people to serve as focal points.
strategies.                  develop sector specific                                   Both private and public sector
strategies with the                                       are willing to participate.
involvement of all public,
private and semi-private
agencies and organizations in
the sector as follows:
- 8 Focal Points at the national
level will have established
action plans by the end of year
I of the project;
- 80 Focal Points at the
national level will have
established action plans by the
end of year 4 of the project;
4.2. Sector strategies address: Reports from Focal Points and
- prevention and mitigation    from line ministries
among staff working in the
sector and their families;
- prevention and mitigation
among the public being served
by the sector (e.g. pupils and
students in education, tourists
in tourism, farmers in
agriculture, etc.)
- adequate communication
strategy geared to the
sector-specific needs and
challenges.
4.3. Re-allocation of available
resources to finance         Poverty Oriented Public
implementation of            Expenditure Review.
sector-specific strategies (use
of HIPC resources,
re-allocation of public
resources, retro-fitting of
donor financed projects).
- 36 -



5. Project activities and  5.1. Project coordination units Reports from National and    Sufficiently trained staff
resources well coordinated and staffed as follows:   Provincial HIV/AIDS       available at national and
managed.                  - All national staff and   Committees                provincial level.
Provincial coordinators
appointed by Credit
Effectiveness;
- All Provincial staff and
Communal staff appointed 6
months after Credit
Effectiveness.
5.2. Timely replenishment of Financial management reports
accounts of communities and
implementing agencies as
follows:
- Two-yearly replenishment of
community accounts upon
presentation of activity report;
- Two yearly replenishment of
accounts of implementing
agencies upon presentation of
activity report.
5.3. Procurement of goods and
services executed in      Reports from National and
accordance with procurement Provincial HIV/AIDS
plan                      Committees
5.4. Regular ex-post control
and audits of community   Annual audit reports
accounts, implementing
agencies, Sectoral Focal
Points, and Coordination Unit.
5.5. Supervision of
implementing agencies     Reports from National and
according to work plan.   Provincial HIV/AIDS
5.6. Adequate involvement of Committees
PLWHA in the              Reports from PLWHA
implementation of the
program.
5.7. Environmental
Management Plan completed
and implemented.
- 37 -



lllorrh  tObctIv.p i;   &:-a    On                                                      Ae  in  o
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Support to local response   US$30.7 Million       Project Reports
Activities to include.
a) Funding community                                                           Continued commitment from
initiatives for the care,                                                      Government to work through
prevention and control of                                                      a multitude of implementing
HIV/AIDS;                                                                      agencies to ensure facilitation
of participatory processes at
b) Identification, selection,                                                  the local level;
and contracting of
implementing agencies                                                          Continued commitment from
(NGOs, Civil society                                                           Government to transfer
organizations, projects, service                                               resources directly to
delivery organizations);                                                       communities and HIV/AIDS
Committees at various levels
c) Providing resources and                                                     in support of the
methodological guidance to                                                     implementation of their action
implementing agencies to                                                       plans;
facilitate the participatory
diagnosis and development of                                                   Willingness of communities to
community HIV/AIDS action                                                      discuss and confront
plans;                                                                         HIVIAIDS;
d) Expanding the capacity
and visibility of PLWIHA to
control HIV/AIDS and to be
the custodians of human rights
against stigma, denial and
discrimination.
- 38 -



2. Support to Health Sector   US$6.1 Million          Project reports
response                                              Reports from Ministry of
Health
Activities to include:                                Beneficiary Assessment
a) Procurement and                                                               Improvement in management
distribution of drugs for the                                                    of provincial agencies for drug
treatment of STDs,                                                               supply
tuberculosis, and
opportunicstic infections;                                                       Improvement in distribution
systems and social marketing
b) Establishment of                                                              of condoms
Counceling and Testing
Centers through both                                                             Availability of capacity in
sub-contrcacting agencies and                                                    private sector to establish
the Ministry of Health;                                                          testing and counseling centers
c) Procurement and
distributions of drugs to
prevent mother-to-child
transmission;
d) Equipment of blood banks
to screen blood samples and
training of staff on the
management of blood banks;
e) Social marketing of
condoms in both rural and
urban areas and free
distribution of condoms to
specific target groups.
- 39 -



3. Design and implementation $US3.2 million               Project reports
of sector specific HIV/AIDS                               Reports from Sectoral focal
strategies                                                points
HIPC monitoring reports
Activities to include:
a) Constitution of sector                                                              Willingness among sector
working groups under the                                                               leadership (both public and
leadership of a Focal Point to                                                         private) to address HIV/AIDS
include all private and public
organizations active in the                                                            Willingness among political
sector as well as                                                                      leaders, CEOs and donors to
representatives from the                                                               reallocate resources as needed
public served by the sector;
Capacity in sectors to establish
b) Workshops, training                                                                 HIV/AIDS strategies
sessions and seminars to
elaborate sector specific                                                              Availability of adequate
HIV/AIDS strategies;                                                                   capacity in private and public
sector at local, communal,
c) Negotiations to obtain                                                              provincial, and national
reallocation of resources in                                                           levels;
national budgets, private
enterprises, donor-funded
projects, and any other sources
of funding in the sector.
d) Elaboration and
implementation of sector
specific communication
strategies.
- 40 -



4. Capacity building       US$8.4 Million             Project reports
Activities to include:
a) Development of training
guides on adequate
methodologies and
management procedures for
members of various types of
coordination and
implementation units in the
program, including members
of
- Community HIV/AIDS
Committees
-  Communal HIV/AIDS
Committees
- Communal staff
- Provincial HIV/AIDS
Committees
- Provincial staff
- Implementing agencies to
support the participatory
processes at community level
- National HIV/AIDS
Committee
- National staff
- Sector Focal Points
b) Selection and contracting of
agencies capable of training
managers and staff at various
levels;
c) Organization of workshops
and training sessions for
committee members,
managers and staff at various
levels;
-41-



5. Project Coordination and   $USI 1.6 Million          Project reports
Management
Activities to include:
a) Establishment of
coordination units at the
national and provincial level;
b) Recruitment of staff at the                                                       Availability of qualified staff
communal level;                                                                      at communal level
c) Establishment of a control
body with the participation of
PLWHA, donor organizations,
NGOs, religious groups, key
ministries, and members of
parliament;
d) Identification, selection,
and contracting of qualified
auditors to ensure ex-post
control of use of resources by
communities, sub-contracting
agencies, and HIV/AIDS
committees at various levels;
e) Establishment of HIV/AIDS
councils at communal,
provincial and national level.
f) Procurement of equipment.
g) Elaboration of budgets and
action plans for various units.
h) Field supervision
i) Monitoring and evaluation
j) Production and
dissemination of information
and material on vulnerability,
HIV/AIDS prevalence, and
best practices to support
sectors and communities in
the elaboration of their
respective strategies and
action plans.
k) Design and implementation
of an HIV/AIDS
communication strategy.
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
The project will have five components: (a) support to local responses; (b) support to the health
sector response; (c) support to the design and implementation of sector strategies; (d) capacity
building; and (e) coordination.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$30.70 million
Support to local responses
The project will support communities to develop and implement their own HIV/AIDS action
plans in a participatory way. In rural areas, communities correspond in general to villages. In
urban areas, communities are groups of people who are affiliated along religious, geographic,
professional, or other lines. In addition to rural and urban communities, the project will support
communities among vulnerable groups (commercial sex workers, inmates, truck drivers,
university students, street children, etc.) and PLWHA.
Special emphasis will go to the participation of traditionally vulnerable groups such as women,
youth and orphans in the process. The result of the participatory process at the community level
will be the establishment of a local HIV/AIDS committee (LHAC), the elaboration of a specific
action plan for the prevention and mitigation of HIV/AIDS at the community level, and the
identification of specific implementation arrangements to carry out the community action plan.
One group which will receive special attention and support are the PLWHA. Through support to
their organizations, the project will increase their capacity, visibility, and activities to better
mitigate the epidemic, in addition to addressing human rights and fighting against stigma, denial,
and discrimination. In addition, funding will be provided to the associations of PLWHA in the
areas of care and support for affected families, training of succession planning and positive living,
social and household support, the promotion of advocacy, the creation of PLWHA organizations
and networks, and updates on medical research.
Another group requiring special attention are orphans. The HIV/AIDS crisis will most likely
orphan over a million children in Cameroon, and it should be anticipated that the capacity of
society to carry the additional burden of orphan care will be strained to its limits. As part of the
local responses of communities, careful attention will go to the organization and provision of
orphan care. This can take the form of assistance to foster parents, the provision of school fees for
orphans, the organization of orphan homes etc.
At the early stages of implementation, the project will carry out action/research to adapt and
fine-tune the participatory methodologies which are already well known and implemented in
Cameroon. This action/research should address the challenge of adapting participatory
methodologies to the specific topic of HIV/AIDS and to various socio-economical settings (such
as rural communities, urban neighborhoods, prisons, work areas of commercial sex workers,
universities and schools, etc.). A group of selected specialists from within and outside the country
will carry out this action/research. At regular times throughout the implementation period, the
- 43 -



action/research will be repeated to incorporate lessons learned and to foster a continuous
learning-by-doing process.
Field staff from various sub-contracting agencies will facilitate the communities to carry out the
participatory process to determine their HIV/AIDS action plans. The PHAC/GTP will be
responsible for the identification, selection, and contracting of these sub-contracting agencies to
implement the facilitation of participatory processes. Through press announcements, all
institutions working with communities in a given province will be invited to express interest in the
program and to provide information about the operations and organization of the institution. After
an initial screening process on the basis of the information provided, those organizations that
appear to have sufficient capacity will be invited to a provincial workshop. During the workshop,
the participatory processes will be discussed in detail, and discussions will be conducted to
determine which organization will be responsible for the facilitation of participatory processes at
the community level in which areas. Depending on the amount of communities covered, the
sub-contracting agencies will receive financial assistance from the program to meet their
incremental costs. The agreement between the PHAC/GTP will be formalized in a contract which
is renewable on an annual basis. Prototype contracts will be included in the implementation
manual.
In addition to the facilitation support provided by the sub-contracting agencies, communities will
receive the support of the technicians at communal level. These technicians are deconcentrated
staff of the PHAC/GTP and are responsible to provide assistance to communities in the
elaboration and implementation of their HIV/AIDS action plans. The technicians will also serve as
the front-line for monitoring the effectiveness of the intervention of sub-contracting agencies.
Commnunities who (a) went through the participatory process; (b) established their LHAC; (c)
elaborated their action plan; (d) obtained legal status; and (e) opened a bank account will receive
direct financial support from the program to assist with the implementation of their action plans.
The financial support to communities will serve to finance a number of specific eligible activities.
These include IEC, awareness, and prevention campaigns, the preparation and diffusion of
didactic material in local languages (radio, video, pamphlets, newsletter), VCT activities, condom
distribution, promotion of HIV/AIDS related drama and folk shows, support to orphans,
community-based care activities (including the purchasing of selected drugs for AIDS patients,
equipment of HIV/AIDS waste management, etc.), income generating activities, support to
HIV/AIDS clubs, financial assistance to AIDS patients and orphans, provision of drugs for
opportunistic infections, sensitization campaigns against stigma and discrimination, promotion of
behavior change, psychological support, targeted life-skills training to vulnerable groups, school
fees and school allowances.
Since it is most likely that the financial needs to implement the community HIV/AIDS action plans
will far exceed the resources which can be made available under the program (an average of about
$2,000 per community per year over a four year period) it was decided not to link the level of
financing to the project proposals in the action plans. The level of financial resources the
communities will receive will instead depend on a standard formula which takes the level of
vulnerability and the number of community members into account. Hence, communities with very
- 44 -



high vulnerability will receive per capita more resources than communities with a lower level of
vulnerability. An indicative table to determine the total financial resources to be transferred to
communities over the course of one year is as follows:
Level of vulnerability
Low       Medium Low    Medium High          High
Population
<1,000        $280            $300           $330            $350
1,000 to 5,000      $700            $750           $825            $875
5,000 to 10,000     $2,100         $2,250          $2,475         $2,625
10,000<      $4,200          $4,500         $4,950          $5,250
The fornula to estimate vulnerability remains to be decided but will take HIV/AIDS prevalence
and socio-economical factors into account.
Because of the de-linking of the level of financing from the specific project proposals in the
community action plans, there will be no need for appraisal of community projects. As soon as a
community meets the five conditions mentioned above, an initial deposit of half the annual
allowance will be transferred to the community account. The community will receive the second
half of the allowance upon submission of a report to the CHAC about the implementation
progress and the use of the financial resources.
Participatory monitoring and evaluation will be an integral part of the community action plans.
Communities will identify indicators they will use to measure success. The indicators will both
measure the effectiveness of the activities carried out by the community members themselves, and
the effectiveness of services delivered by technicians from the various sectors (teachers, nurses,
health workers, NGO staff, extension workers, etc.). A simple form will be designed and included
in the implementation manual. This formn will assist communities to collect the infornation in a
systematic way and to transmit it to the CHAC.
While the ex-ante control of community action programs is simplified as much as possible, the
ex-post control will be strengthened. Special attention will be given during the participatory
process at community level to explain which activities can be financed with the grants, and what
the penalties will be for funding of ineligible activities (no further replenishment of the village
account until ineligible expenditures have been reimbursed). Independent auditors will
continuously do random controls of the use of funds at the community level, and communities will
be informed during the initial participatory process about the likelihood to receive an impromptu
audit to examine the use of the financial resources.
The Bank's Africa Region 's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement, dated
March 1998, will be used as a reference for procurement and disbursement at the local level, but
- 45 -



cognizance of local practices and the capacity of communities to manage the process will be an
important consideration. As community projects funding is within the accepted upper limit for
local shopping, at least three qualified local bidders would be invited to make offers for each
contract. The details of the process and a model contract will be provided in the IPM. This should
not be taken as the only method to be used. Direct contracting should also be acceptable when
competition is not available or not practical, and this will apply especially to the financial support
to communities with less than 1,000 members (most likely, the majority of communities in urban
areas and among special groups will fall into this category). If consultants need to be employed,
single-source selection will be permitted, but other procedures such as those based on
qualifications could also be used. These procedures will be further elaborated in the financial
management and procurement manual. The GTC and GTP will engage audit firms who will
conduct random checks to ascertain whether the prices paid and the quality of work performed
are within acceptable limits.
The limited availability of financial services in rural areas constitutes a special challenge for
communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS: all financial institutions in Cameroon combined have
only about 680 local offices throughout the country. With the assistance of the Bank financial
sector specialists, the Central Bank and commercial banks are examining ways and means to
increase the presence of financial institutions throughout the country. In this effort, special
attention goes to the strengthening of the linkages between savings and credit cooperatives and
the formal banking system.
Project Component 2 - US$6.10 million
Support to health sector response
The response of the health sector will include three major components : (a) surveillance, both
epidemiological and behavioral; (b) prevention through treatment of STIs, voluntary testing and
counseling, prevention of Mother to Child Transmission, universal precautions and blood safety;
and (c) care and treatment of PLWAs. The two latter components will be offered in an integrated
way. Treatment of STIs, VCT and prophylaxis and treatment of opportunistic infections are part
of an integrated package of services offered to people living with HIV so they can live better,
longer and protect their partners and children.
Drugs for the treatment of opportunistic infections and STIs will be purchased through
CENAME. An agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Health and
CENAME on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA for the provision of drugs to treat STIs
and HIV/AIDS related opportunistic infections, including availability and price ceilings, will be a
condition for the release of a US$500,000 revolving fund for the financing of those drugs. The
modalities for the financial management of the fund will be an integral part of the agreement.
Epidemiological and behavioral surveillance
Surveillance of HIV prevalence in the general population will be conducted in 30 sentinel sites
among pregnant women attending antenatal care, along with surveillance of syphilis. Surveillance
activities will also be implemented among other key vulnerable groups: STD patients (11 sites),
military (3 sites) , sex workers (5 sites), universities (3 sites). The surveillance sites for the
- 46 -



vulnerable groups will be organized in a way to stimulate safe behaviors including use of condoms
and treatment of STIs. The utilization of the female condom will be promoted among the
commercial sex workers attending the sites. Notification of cases will also be reorganized and
strengthened.
In parallel to the sero-surveillance, behavioral surveillance will be organized in several sites to
monitor the behavior change among some key groups over time: youth between 15 and 24 years
old, military, truck drivers, commercial sex workers. The behavior of comparable groups will be
monitored over time to detect evolutions in behavior and tailor prevention interventions and
messages. Risk mapping will also be institutionalized and combined with prevalence and response
mapping. A software will be purchased and customized to ensure regular update and use of the
mapping data.
The epidemiological unit of the MOH will be reorganized and its institutional capacity will be
reinforced for it to lead the surveillance effort.
Prevention and voluntary testing and counseling
The MOH strategy for prevention is four-pronged: (a) ensuring broad availability of and stimulate
demand for treatments of sexually transmitted infections (STIS); (b) ensuring availability of
testing counseling in all district hospitals and urban health centers as well as in rural health
centers when relevant; (c) ensuring availability of prophylactic ARV and quality infant feeding
counseling to reduce mother to child transmission of HIV; and (d) ensuring quality of medical
procedures with safety of blood transfusion and universal precautions
Treatment of sexually transmitted infections is considered one of the most effective ways to
prevent the transmission of HIV in Africa. According to a study conducted in Tanzania,
improvement of routine management of these infections could curtail incidence of HIV by 40%,
and is highly cost-effective. (Grosskurth et al 1995.) Currently the management of STIs in
Cameroon encounters two main obstacles: low use of formal services (high use of informal
providers and self medication) and inadequate treatments in both duration and type of drugs used
(leading to inefficacy and raise of resistance). To address these issues the MOH is launching an
effort to market a quality standard approach to treatments in both the public and the private
sector. The treatments will be based on the syndromic approach which allows to rationalize the
treatments according to pre-determined clinical criteria organized in algorithms. Treatments will
be sold as full treatment kits including the necessary drugs (in both quality and quantity) for
treating a given syndrome. Kits will be bought pre-packed or will be pre-packed in the central
medical store (CENAME) and made available to regional medical stores (CAPP) for distribution
to all public facilities as well as non for profit private facilities. Seven different kits are to be
developed:
1. Uretritis first line;
2. Uretritis second line;
3. Leucorrhea first line non pregnant woman;
4. Leucorrhea second line non pregnant woman;
-47 -



5. Leucorrhea first line pregnant woman;
6. Leucorrhea second line pregnant woman; and
7. Genital ulcerations.
Kits will be included in the drug revolving fund system and sold at a price set as a national
standard, following the pricing standards of the National procurement and distribution system
(SYNAME). A dialogue will also be initiated with the private pharmacies to make these kits
available.
Health staff will be trained to use the syndromic approach and prescribe the use of the treatment
kits. Social marketing technique will be used to promote the use of these kits in both the public
and the private sector. Costs of this strategy include the clinical testing and validation of the
syndromic approach, the purchase of an initial seed stock of kits and the implementation of two
pilot operations in Douala and Yaounde. In these two pilot sites, staff will be trained and
intensively supervised for the syndromic approach to be systemically used and operational
obstacles to its scaling up identified. Social marketing tools and information, and communication
material will also be developed to stimulate demand for these quality treatments.
Voluntary Counseling and Testing for HIV has been shown to trigger behavior change especially
in stable relationships. (Coates et al. 2000). The MOH of Cameroon aims at rapidly making VCT
for HIV widely available both inside health services and outside health services. This will require
defining a national VCT strategy for Cameroon, training the counselors, and offering intensive
on-site supportive supervision to counselors in place. Developing counseling will require to
clearly define the various types of counseling and testing services to be offered - for example
anonymous for the general population, confidential for patient's diagnosis, systematic group
pre-test for pregnant women etc. - defining the profile of counselors, and developing a
curriculum for the training of counselors. The HIV tests will also have to be made available and
sold through CENAME with a minimum margin corresponding to stock and distribution costs.
HIV rapid tests will be used as first line test. A second rapid test or an Elisa test will be used as a
second line.
The Government has included the national expansion of the prevention of Mother To Child
Transmission as a key priority for its 3 years emergency plan of action against HIV/AIDS to be
financed by debt relief proceeds. The Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission by a short
regimen of anti-retrovirals and adequate infant feeding has been shown to be highly cost effective
in the African context, especially so when the HIV prevalence among pregnant women is above
5% (Marseille et al, 1998; Dais et al, 1999). In addition to the funding made available to develop
centers of excellence in each province through domestic resources liberated, the project will help
scaling up the intervention by developing national standards for the regimens for Prevention of
Mother To Child Transmission and Infant Feeding Counseling as well as training curricula for the
nursing and medical staff. It will also ensure that anti-retrovirals to prevent transmission from
mother to child such as Zidovudine (AZT) tablets and syrup and Nevirapine will be available by
creating a revolving fund in the CENAME for these drugs. The project will also help provide
support to networks of women living with HIV as a way to minimize stigma and discrimination
towards women living with HIV.
- 48 -



The health sector also has to ensure safe blood supply and universal precautions at all levels. All
provincial and district hospitals will either receive tested blood or have the possibility to test it.
Health staff will be trained in universal precautions and be provided improved access to
post-exposure prophylaxis. Training for health staff will also cover the proper treatment and
disposal of HIV/AIDS waste. Testing and counseling will be promoted among health staff as a
measure to raise awareness and empathy to people living with HIV.
Care and treatment of People living with HIV
Ensuring availability and stimulating the use of treatments and prophylaxis of opportunistic
infections for People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) is inexpensive, cost-effective, prevents
life threatening infections among PLWHA and will benefit the poorest AIDS patients who may
otherwise have gone untreated.
As part of the project PLWHA will have access to a basic package of cost effective treatments.
The drugs and consumables necessary for basic treatment and care of people living with AIDS
will be made available at both district hospital and health center level. Drugs to treat tuberculosis
(about US$ 50 per treatment) will be provided free of charge by the government and will be
directly funded from HIPC funds. Capacity to diagnose TB needs to be reinforced and basic lab
services be put in place. Support to Directly Observed Treatment Strategy (DOTS)
implementation will also have to be provided with extensive supervision and monitoring.
Prophylaxis of tuberculosis (US$3 a course of 9 months of Inh) may be offered when active TB
has been excluded.
Prophylaxis of Pneumocystis Carinii and other infections by cotrimoxazole will also be made
available to all PLWHA at a standardized minimized price, amounting to about US$ 10 per
person per year. Conditions for offering the prophylactic regimen need to be defined including
symptom (at least one defining infection) and lymphocyte counts. Basic treatment for fungal
infections (nystatine, amphotericine) B and diarrhea and dehydration (ORS, Ringer solution) will
also be part of the standard package.
Health staff will be trained in diagnosing these infections and providing the appropriate treatment.
These training will be offered as part of a curriculum of specialization for some key staff.
Indispensable support activities will include clear definition of the package and of treatment
indications and standards, training and supervision and elaboration of a standardized pricing
scheme for all the treatments.
Finally the Government is currently dialoguing with the pharmaceutical industry to raise access to
combined anti-retrovirals at a minimum cost. Although much reduced, drug prices are still
relatively high (Bilous, 1999) and there are many issues in implementation and compliance that
can reduce its effectiveness. However the government will pursue its broker role to help raise
financial access to care. Currently treating all AIDS patients with combined therapies in
Cameroon would amount to 3 to 4 times the overall health budget of year 2000, even using the
cost benchmarks of Senegal and Brazil, two countries where the cost of ARV has been decreased
-49 -



substantially.
Training of traditional healers and birth attendants
About 80% of Cameroonians consult traditional healers and birth attendants. The NHAC
recognizes the potential for working closely with traditional healers and birth attendants in the
fight against HIV/AIDS, especially with regard to prevention, the treatment of opportunistic
infections, and socio-psychological care for people with full-blown AIDS. At the same time, the
NHAC and the Ministry of Health will curtail existing practices whereby people, under the image
of traditional medicine, extort patients on the promise of miracle cures for AIDS.
The program will provide for the training of traditional healers and birth attendants including
training on storage of herbal materials and hygienic preparation; diagnosis and treatment of
opportunistic infections; nutrition; maternal and child health; pre- and post-natal care; personal
hygiene; and sanitation. The methodologies used during the training will take into account that
many traditional healers and birth attendants are illiterate. Appropriate training materials will be
used.
At this stage, there are numerous and uncoordinated associations of traditional healers and birth
attendants. To ensure reaching the majority of traditional healers and birth attendants and to avoid
duplication, the NHAC and the Ministry of Health will work with the existing organizations to
strengthen coordination, and to foster the emerging of a national association.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.20 million
Support to the design and implementation of sector strategies
There is a strong consensus in the country that the fight against HIV/AIDS can only be won if in
addition to the health sector, all other sectors elaborate and implement specific HIV/AIDS action
plans. The program will support the development of sector specific strategies to ensure that the
quality of the strategies are sound, and that the various actors in each of the sectors (private,
public, civil society) are actively participating both in the design and the implementation of the
strategies.
Obviously, sector specific strategies will differ from each other according to the nature of the
sector. However, each sector strategy will have to articulate how prevention and care will be
organized among people working in the sector, among the public which is reached by the sector
(e.g. pupils and students in the education sector, rural families in the agricultural sector, etc.), and
will have to develop a communication strategy which is adapted to the needs and nature of the
sector.
Another feature which will be common to the various sector strategies will be the support to
private sector companies to fight against HIV/AIDS. Private companies will be encouraged to
recruit a person living with HIV/AIDS to organize the sensitization campaigns in the company,
and to assist human resources management units with the development of strategies to deal with
HIV/AIDS in the company. Part of the salaries of the PLWHA who are recruited to carry out this
specific assignment will be financed under the sector strategy. As described in the component on
- 50 -



support to the health sector response, a revolving fund will be made available to CENAME to
ensure the availability of drugs to treat opportunistic infections and STIs at affordable prices. This
will also lighten the financial burden of those private companies that opt to assist their staff in
providing treatment for opportunistic infections as part of their HIV/AIDS strategy.
Each sector will be responsible for the development of a specific HIV/AIDS strategy. To
coordinate this process, focal points will be identified in each sector. The focal points are small
teams of two to three senior staff who will guide the process of strategy definition in the sector.
To ensure that the sector specific strategies are being elaborated by the sectors - and notfor the
sectors - the people in the focal points will not become staff of the GTC, but will remain in their
respective sectors. However, they will work on a full time basis to ensure the development and
the implementation of the sector strategies.
The GTC will provide support to the focal points in terms of training on methodologies for
strategy definition, training on sector-specific HIV/AIDS issues, and guidance on the development
of the sector specific communication strategies. At the outset of the program, the GTC will
organize a workshop for senior managers and decision makers of the various sector agencies. This
workshop will have as an objective to sensitize attendants on the HIV/AIDS epidemic, to explain
how the epidemic is affecting the various actors in the sector (private enterprises, public
administrations, semi-public entities, trade unions, consumer organizations, and the public at
large). As a result of the workshop, there should be a clear understanding among the senior
decision makers in the sector about the need to rhobilize and to develop specific strategies for
prevention and mitigation both among the people working in the sector, and among the public.
Consensus will also be reached about the appointment of focal points within each sector and
about the process of strategy definition and implementation.
Once the focal points identified, they will be trained by the GTC with the assistance of
international consultants on the methodologies for strategy definition. With the help of UNICEF,
a training program in this vein for sector staff has already started, and the project will continue to
support this effort.
As a next step, each focal point will elaborate a specific proposal detailing how they will identify a
working group of staff from the various actors in the sector (and in each sub-sector), and what the
process will be to elaborate the sector strategies. The GTC will organize workshops for four to
five focal points at a time where these proposals will be discussed, where focal points will
exchange experiences, and provide feed-back on their respective proposals. Special attention will
be given during this workshops to ensure that the focal points can cement the full participation of
the various actors in the sector. The workshops will also review to what extent the various
dimensions which need to be covered by the sector strategies are being taken into account.
Once an agreement reached on the action plan to develop the sector strategy, the focal points start
implementing the action plan. During the process, the GTC will continue to provide support and
feed-back to the focal points. The focal points can also request the assistance from national and/or
international consultants where needed. When and if this assistance is required, the consultants
will be selected and recruited with the assistance of the GTC.
- 51 -



The project will finance the entire process of strategy definition. This includes the various
workshops, consultancies, and logistical support to the process. The project will also ensure the
proper supervision and coaching of the elaboration and implementation of the respective
HIV/AIDS sector strategies through the GTC and GTP. However, the available financial
resources do not allow the financing of the implementation of the respective HIV/AIDS sector
strategies through the Credit or through the NHAC. To ensure proper financing of the sector
strategies, they will be presented to the Ministry of Finance which agreed to include them under
the priority programs to be funded under the HIPC initiative. However, only those sector
strategies which have been certified by the GTC to be sound and not to constitute overlapping
with activities programmed in other sectors will be eligible for HIPC financing.
The coordination of the implementation of the respective sector strategies and the coordination
between sector strategies and the action plans elaborated by local communities will take place in
the HIV/AIDS Committees at national, provincial, communal, and local community level. In the
respective HIV/AIDS Committees, representatives from the various sectors and representatives
from civil society meet. This platform will be used to ensure that the respective sectors provide
adequate support to local communities, that the action plans of local communities are truly
multi-sectoral, and that the sector strategies complement (rather than overlap) each other. To
facilitate this coordination, the GTC, GTP, and the technician at the communal level will play an
important role of technical assistance to their respective HIV/AIDS Committees.
Project Component 4 - US$8.40 million
Capacity building
To meet the tremendous challenge of training and strengthening of capacity at various levels, the
project will have an important capacity buitding component. This component will include:
strengthening of HIV/AIDS committees at various levels; training of project staff at national,
provincial, and communal level; training of sectoral focal points; training of staff of
sub-contracting agencies responsible for the facilitation of participatory processes at community
level; training of communication specialists on HIV/AIDS related issues; training of financial
management staff on the procurement, disbursement and accounting procedures; and training of
community members on methods for community based procurement, transparency, and record
keeping.
Strengthening of HIV/AIDS committees: members of HIV/AIDS committees at national,
provincial, communal, and local community levels will require training to better master their role
of strategy definition and supervision of the respective implementation units. The training will be
provided partly by members of the implementation units, and partly by national and international
consultants and NGOs. In addition to formal training sessions and workshops, provisions have
been made to facilitate visits of members of HIV/AIDS committees to colleagues in other
provinces or abroad to exchange experiences and to learn from best practices elsewhere.
Training of project staff at the national, provincial, and communal levels: to reflect the
multi-sectoral nature of the HIV/AIDS program in Cameroon, project staff will be recruited from
various sectors. At the outset of the program, the various section chiefs of the GTC will provide
- 52 -



training to their staff at the national, provincial and communal level to ensure full understanding of
the program design, the institutional framework, the methodologies to be used to carry out the
work programs, and the respective terms of reference of staff. Refresher courses will be organized
on an annual basis to facilitate learning-by-doing and to exchange best practices.
Training of facilitators of participatory processes at the community level: field staff and managers
from sub-contracting agencies will receive training on methodologies for community participation.
The section for support to local responses will be responsible for the organization of this training
which will be organized in the field and will be very practical in nature. The objective of the
training is to ensure that facilitators are well versed in the specific HIV/AIDS methodologies for
community participation as adapted to various sociological settings through the action/research
program (see above: support to local responses component). The initial training will be followed
by annual refresher courses where staff can exchange experiences and incorporate lessons learned.
Training of sector focal points: people who will be identified by the sectors to act as sector focal
points will be trained on the methodologies and organization of the elaboration of sector specific
action plans. This training will also strengthen specific knowledge on how HIV/AIDS affects the
sector. In addition, focal points will be trained as needed in facilitation skills to strengthen their
capacity to coach their counterparts from the various sector agencies in the process of designing
and implementing the HIV/AIDS strategies. Other key aspects of the training include the
strengthening of capacity of sectoral focal points on log-frame techniques, the identification of
monitorable indicators, the clarification of implementation arrangements and institutional settings,
and the elaboration of budgets.
Training of communication specialists on HIV/AIDS related issues: part of the responsibility of
the section responsible for IEC is the strengthening of capacities among communicators with
regard to HIV/AIDS. Specifically, training will be provided to members of the press to increase
their knowledge and access to accurate and up-to-date information on the HIV/AIDS crisis, about
progress made in research, about availability of treatment and care, etc. As part of the
communication strategy of the NHAC, consultants will be recruited to assist in the strengthening
of the communication strategies developed under the program.
Training of financial management staff on the procurement, disbursement and accounting
procedures: the financial management staff at the national and provincial level will receive training
on the procedures that will apply under this program and which are detailed in the financial
management manual. Special attention will go to the training of staff at the communal level on
community based procurement.
Training of community members on methods for community based procurement, transparency,
and record keeping: to mitigate the risk of abuse of funds at the community level, the program
will provide for the training of community members on financial management, transparency and
record keeping. This training will be an integral part of the services provided by the
sub-contracting agencies responsible for the facilitation of participatory processes at the
community level. Also the professional staff working at the communal level will provide
assistance to communities to strengthen their financial management capacities. In addition to the
- 53 -



training by the professional staff, provisions have been made for visits between members of
communities from different parts of the country to encourage exchange of experience and best
practices.
Project Component 5 - US$11.60 million
Coordination
Under the coordination component, investment and recurrent costs of the HIV/AIDS Committees
at various levels and of the GTC, GTP, and communal technicians will be financed. The
description of the HIV/AIDS committees and the GTC and GTP are provided in the section
below on implementation arrangements.
Implementation arrangements
Organizational charts reflecting the implementation arrangements are included in annex 12.
The HIV/AIDS Committees at National level (NHAC), Provincial level (PHAC), Communal
level (CHAC), and local community level (LHAC) are responsible for the definition of the
HIV/AIDS strategies and action plans at their respective levels and for the implementation of
these action plans. To ensure the day-to-day implementation of the entire program, the NHAC has
created a Groupe Technique Central (GTC). The GTC comprises a Permanent Secretary and
about twenty staff. Similarly, at the provincial level the PHAC is assisted by a Groupe Technique
Provincial (GTP). The GTP comprises a provincial manager and about seven staff. At the
communal level, every CHAC will be assisted by a technician. To reflect the multi-sectoral
character of the operation, staff at the national, provincial, and communal level will come from
various sectors (e.g. education, health, communication, agriculture, and finance, etc.). The
organization, composition, and staffing of the program at the national, provincial and communal
level are described in detail in the implementation manual.
At the grassroots level, local HIV/AIDS Committees (LHAC) will be created through a
participatory process in every community: communities in urban areas (associations based on
professional, confessional, geographic, and other affiliations), communities in rural areas
(villages), and communities among special vulnerable groups (commercial sex workers, inmates,
truck drivers, university students, street children, etc.).
The HIV/AIDS committees at various levels hold their respective implementation units
accountable - GTC, GTP, and technician at respectively national, provincial, and communal level.
At the local community level, the LHAC holds the community members responsible for the
implementation of the community action plans accountable.
The HIV/AIDS Committees at various levels are the nexus where the "local responses" and the"
sector responses" meet and are coordinated. In the committees, representatives from various
sectors (responsible for the design and implementation of sector specific HIV/AIDS strategies),
political authorities, and members of civil society (responsible for the design and implementation
of local responses) participate. The HIV/AIDS Committees provide guidance to the various
stakeholders so that the community action plans elaborated through the local response component
- 54 -



are sound, and so that the various sectors provide adequate responses to the community action
plans.
The Groupe Technique Central (GTC) is managed by a Permanent Secretary and is composed
of five sections: (i) a section for support to local responses; (ii) a section for support to sector
responses; (iii) an operational section, responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the entire
program, monitoring of support and care for PLWHA, and epidemiological surveillance; (iv) a
section responsible for information, communication, and education (IEC); and (v) a financial
management section. The Groupe Technique Provincial (GTP) is managed by a provincial
manager and comprises the same sections as the GTC.
The Permanent Secretary is responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of the
program. (S)he oversees the elaboration of the annual work programs and budgets in line with the
national HIV/AIDS strategy and presents the annual work plan and budget to the NHAC for
approval; holds the staff in the GTC at the national and provincial levels accountable for the
proper implementation of the work programs; is accountable to the NHAC with regard to the
implementation of the work programs, the diligent use of resources, and the implementation of
activities carried out through sub-contracting agencies; and assumes the function of secretary to
the NHAC. At the provincial level, the provincial manager is responsible for the elaboration of
annual work plans and budgets, for the implementation of the work plans (mainly through
sub-contracting agencies), and for the supervision of field activities. The provincial manager
assumes the function of secretary to the PHAC.
The section for support to local responses is staffed at the national level by a section chief and
three senior staff (one for rural areas, one for urban areas, and one for vulnerable groups). At the
provincial level there is one provincial coordinator for support to local responses. The section for
support to local responses is responsible for the development and implementation of HIV/AIDS
strategies at the grassroots level. Facilitation of community participation processes will be
subcontracted to organizations (NGOs, projects, religious organizations, public sectoral agencies
such as the extension service, private companies, etc.) which are already established in the field.
The section staff will determine the methodologies to be used, will identify, select, and contract
implementing agencies, and will provide training, supervision, and financial support to these
agencies. They will also supervise field staff at the communal level who assist communal and
grassroots HIV/AIDS Committees in the elaboration and implementation of their action plans.
The section for support to sector responses is staffed at the national level by a section chief and
three senior staff (one for social sectors, one for economic sectors, and one for
politico-administrative sectors). At the provincial level there is one provincial coordinator. The
section for support to sector responses is responsible for assisting various sectors (health,
education, defense, communication, rural development, transport, public works, tourism, financial
sector, women affairs, etc.) with the development and implementation of sector specific
HIV/AIDS strategies. The actual development of the sector strategies will be done by sectoral
focal points (staff in the respective sectors who have been designated for this purpose). The
section staff will ensure the training of the focal points of the various sectors, will assist the
various sectors with the development and implementation of the sector specific strategies, and will
- 55 -



ensure that the sector strategies are geared to respond to the demands stemming from local
communities.
The operational section is staffed at the national level by one section chief and three staff (one in
charge of monitoring support and care for PLWHA, one in charge of epidemiological and
behavioral surveillance, and one in charge of monitoring and evaluation). At the provincial level,
there will be one provincial coordinator and one staff responsible for monitoring and evaluation.
The role of the section is to ensure that people living with HIV/AIDS receive as good care as
possible, and to generate accurate information about the evolution of the HIV/AIDS crisis in
Cameroon. In addition, the section is responsible to monitor the operations on the ground and to
make regular evaluations of the impact of the program. Most of the activities will be carried out
through sub-contracting or partner agencies. The medical care of PLWHA will be coordinated by
the Ministry of Health and implemented through public and private health sector agencies (in this
case, there will be no sub-contracting arrangements: medical care for PLWHA - including
voluntary testing and counseling - is an integral part of the health sector response to HIV/AIDS).
Epidemiological and behavioral surveillance will be sub-contracted to specialized agencies. Data
collection for monitoring and evaluation will be carried out partially through the internal reporting
systems of the GTC, and partly through independent surveys (such as beneficiary assessments).
The section for information, communication, and education is staffed at the national level by
one section chief and three staff. At the provincial level, the section has one staff. The section is
responsible for the development and implementation of the communication strategy of the NHAC
and for assisting the various sectors in the elaboration of their sector specific communication
strategies. The design of the NHAC's communication strategy will be sub-contracted to a
specialized agency which will be selected through a tendering process. The GTC will indicate a
minimum list of activities that should be included in the communication strategy (such as public
awareness campaigns, Cameroon HIV/AIDS web-site, regular production of fact sheets and press
conferences, etc.). However, the contracting agency will have freedom to develop and suggest
additional features for the NHAC's communication strategy. Once the strategy approved and
adopted by the NHAC, the implementation of the strategy will be sub-contracted to one or more
specialized agencies. The section staff will be responsible for supervising the work of the
sub-contracting agency, for the assessment of the level of HIV/AIDS awareness in the national
press, for ensuring the dissemination of accurate information on HIV/AIDS in general and on the
evolution of the epidemic in Cameroon in particular, and for the technical support to the various
sector units with regard to the design and implementation of their respective communication
strategies.
The financial management section is staffed at the national level by one section chief and two
staff. At the provincial level, the section has one staff. With regard to financial management, the
accounting of the entire program at the national and the provincial level will be sub-contracted to
specialized accounting firms. Also internal audits of the various components of the program,
including the financial management at the community level, will be sub-contracted. The operations
of the financial management section are further explained below.
The Commission Mixte de Suivi will be responsible for external auditing and control of the entire
- 56 -



program. This Commission is composed of representatives from the Ministry of Territorial
Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Investments, the Ministry of Public
Health, PLWHA, employer organizations, religious groups, UTNAIDS, bi-lateral and multi-lateral
donors. Representatives from the President's Office, the Services of the Prime Minister,
Parliament, and the Judiciary will sit on the Commission as independent observers. The
Commission has statutory meetings on a quarterly basis, but will also meet at any time at the
request of any of the independent observers. The Commission will verify to what extent program
implementation actually reflects the directions provided through the National HIV/AIDS strategy.
The Commission will also order external audits to verify the proper management and use of
resources at the various levels of program implementation and will instruct the GTC on any
corrective action to be taken when needed. The minutes of the Commission's meetings will be
transmitted to the President's Office, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of
Planning, and the donor community.
Financial Management
The NHAC will be responsible for the entire project coordination and the GTC insures
coordination of all technical aspects at the national level for the NHAC. The CPLS insures
coordination at the provincial level and reports to the CNLS, while the GTP insures coordination
of the technical aspects at the provincial for the PHAC.
Flow of Funds
The disbursement system has been set-up to ensure timely and reliable flow of funds to the end
user at the community level. Although there is only one implementing agency, IDA funds will be
deposited in two independent Special Accounts, Special Account A and Special Account B, held
in commercial banks acceptable to IDA. Government counterpart contributions will be lodged at
the CAA in a separate Project earmarked account. The HIPC funds will not flow through the
project but will be managed separately through the Treasury and the national budget according to
the national budgetary and accounting process.
Special Account A would be used exclusively to channel IDA funds to the communities in order
to isolate the flow of project funds to the communities from the rest of the project disbursements.
Special Account A will facilitate the monitoring of funds flows to communities and will improve
the reliability and ease of bank reconciliations with project accounts. In addition, Special Account
A will be replenished exclusively on the basis of actual flows to Provinces and additional advances
to Special Account A, from IDA, made on the basis of cash flow projections while Special
Account B will be replenished based on actual expenditure as evidenced by SOEs and supporting
documentation. Ten sub-accounts to Special Account A, one in each Province, will be opened in
local banks/financial institutions acceptable to IDA, and will be used to receive IDA funds from
Special Account A and to disburse funds directly to communities' bank accounts. Special Account
B will be used for all other project disbursements, including reimbursements to the Project
Account whenever necessary. Ten sub-accounts to Special Account B , one in each province, will
be opened in local banks/financial institutions acceptable to IDA. However, these sub-accounts
will only be relied upon to the extent that the allocation of counterpart funds in the Project
- 57 -



Account is insufficient to cover project expenditures. The Project Account will receive
counterpart funds to be used exclusively for project expenditure and not for community level
activities. Ten sub-accounts of the Project Account will also be maintained in each Province.
Cash and Document Flow: Special Accounts
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
Special Account A           Special Account B  Project Account
1.                         1
NHAC/
GTC    _  _  _  _
Sub account A            Sub-account B      Project account
PHAC/GTP
A
CH ~~~~~~~~~ICash
flow
LHAC                               A  Document
Flow
Accounting
Overall responsibility for maintaining projects accounts in a manner acceptable to the Bank will
rest with GTC. Project accounts will also be maintained by the 10 GTP and will be consolidated
by GTC. Supervision of the accounts kept by GTP will be done by GTC, which will be
responsible for consolidation of the project accounts. Except for community level expenditure,
GTC and GTP will maintain supporting documentation for all project expenditure in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. Accounting at the community level will be minimal, and will include
recording of expenditures, reconciling with bank statements and ensuring that supporting
documentation is available. Payments made by GTP directly to communities will be recorded as
project expenditure under disbursement category 1, but given the dispersion of funds to
approximately 13,000 villages and end-users, the actual detailed expenditure made by
communities will not be consolidated with the overall project expenditure accounts. The
supporting documentation held by communities will be audited by external auditors on a random
- 58 -



basis. Annual expenditure budgets will be prepared by the project and will include activities at
GTC, GTP and community levels. Budget at the community levels will use standard costs for all
activities, as determined by the project management.
Private accounting firrns will be recruited by GTC and the ten GTP to provide accounting services
for the project. The project Chief Financial Officer will be responsible for the overall project
financial management and will closely supervise the work of the accounting firms. The project
accounting and financial management team will be mobilized before project effectiveness. In
order for the project to comply with the Government's public finance regulations, all project
expenditures at the GTC and GTP levels will be subjected to ex-post control by the MINEFI
controllers (Controleurs financiers). A project financial and accounting procedures manual which
should be acceptable to the Bank is currently under preparation by a private accounting firm. The
financial and accounting procedures manual will be completed prior to effectiveness, and will
include all forms required for reporting project expenditure, including forms designed for
communities to report their activities, specifically costs and outputs. GTC will not have the
capacity to produce PMRs initially, but during the first year of project implementation, the project
capacity to produce PMR for disbursement purposes will be assessed and a determination will
then be made of when the project will be in position.to convert to PMR based disbursements.
The following action plan has been agreed with the Borrower:
-     appointrnent of a Chief Financial Officer - done;
-     appointment of one/several accounting firms to provide accounting services - before
effectiveness;
-     completion of the financial and accounting procedures manual acceptable to IDA - before
effectiveness;
-     setting-up of an accounting and financial system, including project tailored software -
before effectiveness;
-     production of PMR - to be assessed by November 30, 2002.
- 59 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million    US $million    US $million
Support to local responses                                30.00          0.53         30.53
Support to health sector responses                         3.43          2.52          5.95
Support to the design and implementation of sector strategies  2.30      0.74          3.04
Capacity building                                          4.80          3.00          7.80
Coordination                                                8.40         2.70         11.10
Total Baseline Cost                                       48.93          9.49         58.42
Physical Contingencies                                    0.38          0.15          0.53
Price Contingencies                                        0.69         0.36          1.05
Total Project Costs              50.00         10.00        60.00
Total Financing Required               50.00        10.00         60.00
LocalI           Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category              I US $million    us   llio     S $million
Subprojects                                                 25.00           0.00        25.00
Goods                                                        1.10           2.40         3.50
Services, Training and Audits                                9.40           5.60         15.00
Operating costs                                             12.00           2.00         14.00
Beneficiaries contributions                                  2.50           0.00         2.50
Total Project Costs     50.00          10.00        60.00
0  Total Financing Required      50.00         10.00         60.00
- 60 -



Annex 4
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Benefit Analysis Summary
An economic analysis of the impact of HIV/AIDS and a cost-benefit analysis of the Multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS project prepared under the Multi-Country AIDS Program was discussed in Annex 5 of
the Project Appraisal Document of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region.
In addition to this economic analysis it may be mentioned that the proposed project will benefit
the population of Cameroon in numerous ways:
- It will directly benefit highly vulnerable groups such as commercial sex workers, men and
women in uniform, truckers, university students and plantation workers, who will be able to
protect themselves as well as their partners thanks to accessible and affordable means of
prevention;
- It will also highly benefit pregnant women and young people, by enhancing reproductive
health education and raising access to prevention and treatments of sexually transmitted
infections;
- It will benefit the Cameroon society overall by reducing the risk of acquiring HIV of the
general population, beyond these vulnerable groups and avoiding more than one million new
infections among adults before 2005;
- It will contribute to decreasing the HIV infection rates of children, avoiding the
contamination of more than 50,000 children before 2005 and contributing to increase in life
expectancy;
- It will reduce the impoverishing impact of AIDS on households by reducing the loss of
income due to illness and deaths of breadwinners as well as by providing accessible,
affordable care and transfers;
It will help communities to cushion the economic impact of AIDS and help diminish the
economic vulnerability of women by raising access to income generating activities;
- Communities'capacities will be strengthened and "dialogue" and empowerment structures
supported and reinforced;
-  The social capital of Cameroon will be protected by supporting solidarity mechanisms and
care to orphans;
-  It will benefit the economic development of Cameroon, protecting its human capital, reducing
loss of productivity and producing significant savings on health expenditures for the
government, firms and households.
- 61 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIVIAIDS Project
Years Ending
7757
I Yearl |Year2  I Year3  I Year4  I Year5              Year6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          14.0        8.8       11.8       11.8       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             3.0       4.2        3.2        3.2        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         17.0       13.0       15.0       15.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             17.0       13.0       15.0       15.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  14.5       10.0      12.5       13.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 2.0        2.5       1.7        1.2        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries              0.5        0.5       0.8        0.8        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     17.0      13.0       15.0       15.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 62 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) is under way in Cameroon. The national
procurement system needs a major reform. Procedures for procurement of works, goods, and
services are weak in several areas. The Government seems to be ready to make changes in this
regard and is considering the Bank's assistance to help in the preparation of a new procurement
code which is schedule to be completed by the end of 2001. In the meantime, Cameroon's
procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines. No special exceptions,
permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit since Cameroon's procurement practices
allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
Guidelines
No civil works are scheduled for the project. Goods financed by IDA will be procured in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), and Bank Standard Bidding
Documnents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Cameroon's procurement laws
and regulations, acceptable to IDA, provided that they assure economy, efficiency, transparency,
fair participation, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. For NCB
procedures, the Government has given assurances during negotiations that: (i) bids will be
advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (ii) methods used in the evaluation of
bids and the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (iii)
any bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids;
(iv) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (v) no
preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (vi) eligible firms, including foreign firms
are not precluded from participation; (vii) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (viii) bid evaluation reports will clearly
state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid. Standard Bidding Documents to be used for
NCB will be reviewed by IDA before Credit effectiveness.
Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Banks
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in
September 1997, and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the
Bank, will be used for appointment of consultants as well as the Sample form of Evaluation
Report for the Selection of Consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants.
The Government has been briefed during the appraisal mission about the features of the new
Consultants Guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement, bid opening and various steps
of IDA reviews.
-63 -



Community Participation in Procurement will be based on Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments (February 1998).
Advertising
Given the urgency of the project, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first year of
operations will be prepared and issued in the United Nations Development Business (UJNDB) web
site without the need for hard-copy publication, as well as in the local newspapers to advertise for
any ICB for goods and for major consulting assignments to obtain expression of interest. The
requirement for printed publication of GPN has been waived by the RPA office. The GPN will
also be issued in the national press for contracts to be let under NCB. The detailed GPN for the
subsequent years will be prepared for the project and published in UNDB. It will be updated
annually for all outstanding procurement. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) and Expressions of
Interest (EOI) for large contracts for consultants services (above US$200,000 equivalent) will
also be advertised in Development Business and sufficient time will be allowed for responses to
such specific notices (minimum 30 days) before preparing the short list.
In order to accelerate project implementation, the Government wish to proceed with the initial
steps of procurement before signing the related Credit Agreement. The procurement procedures,
including advertising, will be done in accordance with the Guidelines in order for the eventual
contracts to be eligible for Bank financing, and the normal review process by the Bank will be
followed in accordance with the Procurement Guidelines for Goods and Consultants mentioned
above.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
The overall responsibility for the implementation of the national strategy for the fight against
HIV/AIDS lays with the National HIV/AIDS Committee (NHAC) and its decentralized entities at
provincial (PHAC), communal (CHAC), and local (LHAC) levels. The HIV/AIDS Committees
are responsible for the strategy definition, the approval of annual work plans and budgets, and the
supervision of the implementation of the strategies at their respective levels.
To ensure proper implementation, the HIV/AIDS Committees are supported by technical units. At
the national level, the NHAC implements its strategy through the Groupe Technique Central (
GTC). At the provincial level, the PHAC works through the Groupe Technique Provincial
(GTP). The GTC is managed by a Permanent Secretary and is composed of five sections. The
financial management section will include two procurement specialists who are currently under
recruitment. The GTP, managed by a provincial manager will comprise the same sections as the
GTC and would also include a person in charge of the procurement at this level.
GTC will be responsible for preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation and award, contract
monitoring and management at central level. The procurement of vehicles, motorcycles, office
equipment, computers and audio visual material will be handled by the GTC. Procurement of
items such as IEC materials, workshops, training, and supplies will also be handled by GTC at the
- 64 -



central level using the specified procurement methods identified for the project. GTP will be
responsible only for the procurement of operating goods, (office supply, gasoline, etc.) and the
procurement of services of implementing agencies responsible for the facilitation of participatory
processes at the community level. The GTP will be authorized to sign contracts with these
agencies in accordance with the provisions of the Program Implementation Manual (PIM), but
will require prior review by the GTC for any contracts of a value of more than $US20,000
equivalent.
Procurement Capacity & Procurement Plan
An assessment of procurement capacity of the GTC to verify whether it will be able to handle the
procurement workload under the project is ongoing, and an action plan will be discussed to
correct any management deficiency in the implementation agency's capacity to administer
procurement in an efficient and transparent way. This assessment will also help set parameters for
prior review limits and the frequency of procurement supervision. Given the workload in
procurement during the first year, the GTC will be reinforced through (i) recruitment of two
procurement specialists; (ii) procurement training at the Regional procurement center (Senegal) if
necessary; and (iii) under exceptional circumstances basis, hiring of short-term consultants. The
GTC is currently recruiting of procurement specialists. In addition, procurement proficient staff
will be recruited in the GTP prior to Credit effectiveness.
More than 50 percent of the project funds are allocated to local initiatives under community-based
or "community involved" sub-projects. The procurement plan for the first year was prepared
during appraisal and has been finalized during negotiations. It is based on the initial needs of the
National HIV/AIDS Committee (NHAC), and the work-programs submitted by the GTC and
GTP. Costs beyond Project Year 1 for the subsequent years are only indicative at the time of
project appraisal. The exact mix of procurement will be determined on an annual basis during the
annual joint reviews between NHAC, IDA, and other partners, where a draft procurement plan for
the following financial year will be presented and agreed upon. During the first 12 months of
project operations, the detailed procurement plans for the following years will be developed and
submitted to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant information on goods,
and consulting services under the project as well as the timing of each milestone in the
procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every quarter and reviewed by
IDA during each supervision mission. The procurement plan will be part of the Manual of
Financial Management and Accounting Procedures and the Project Implementation Manual. The
PIM should solicit the participation of all stakeholders, set out the procurement plans, assess the
local counterpart fund requirements, specify responsibilities for commitment and implementations,
and identify the risks that need to be controlled.
Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual and Agreements
A Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual on administrative procedures and internal
organization at central and decentralized levels will include: (i) eligibility criteria for selecting
sub-projects for implementation under the proposed project; (ii) procedures for calling for bids,
selecting consultants and vendors, and awarding contracts; (iii) internal organization for
- 65 -



supervision and quality control; and (iv) financial management, budgeting, accounting, and
disbursement procedures. The drafting of this manual was initiated during preparation and a first
draft has been discussed during negotiations. In any case, the adoption of the manual in a formn
acceptable to IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
As a condition for negotiations, the Government has reviewed and agreed with IDA: (a) a draft
procurement plan for the first year of the project prepared during appraisal; (b) a draft version of
the Project Implementation Manual with target time periods for the various procurement phases;
(c) a draft standard bidding document format to be used under NCB procedures for goods; a plan
for training the GTC. Before credit effectiveness, a consensus will be reached on the proper
monitoring of procurement as well as on the standard bidding documents to be used for NCB.
The Government has given assurances at negotiations that it will: (a) use a Financial and
Accounting Procedures Manual and a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA; (b) use
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the
selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation report; (c) apply the procurement
procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; (d) update the procurement plan
on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA, to compare target times and actual
completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related
documents; and (e) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding
procedures and performance, as they relate to the project's procurement experience, and propose
for IDA's consideration any modification to the current procedures to the extent that would
accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The program elements by expenditure category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods
are summarized in Table A below. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are
summarized in Table B.
Goods
The total cost of goods is estimated at US$3.5 million for the project. Procurement of goods will
be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more per package
and will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Preference for
domestically manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
Contracts for office furniture and equipment, and materials locally available which cost more than
US$20,000 but less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1 million would be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.
Other Procedures. Procurement of small office equipment, furniture for GTC and GTP, printed
materials for IEC, and other instructional materials costing less than US$20,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.5 million equivalent will be procured through prudent International
Shopping and National Shopping in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines. Solicitations will be issued in writing to at least three reputable suppliers (preferably
- 66 -



more) in order to receive at least three competitive quotations. Solicitations will give
specifications, and if not immediately available, the delivery time. Written quotations will be
opened at the same time for evaluation and records of award decisions will be kept for Bank
supervision missions and audits. Specific shopping procedures to be followed will be reflected in
the procurement section of the Manual of Procedures. Procurement of spare parts, minor
off-the-shelf items, and other specialist equipment and proprietary items costing less than
US$10,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$0.30 million equivalent, may be
procured directly from manufacturers and authorized local distributors.
Given the urgent nature of the project, it will be critical for successful implementation to ensure
mobility of staff and circulation of information as quickly as possible. As indicated in the
introduction to this annex, the current procurement procedures in Cameroon call for substantial
revision. The experience with other IDA-funded projects has indicated that procurement through
the National Tender Board for items such as motorcycles or cars can take as long as 15 months or
more. This kind of delays would keep the project staff at the critical early stage of project
implementation from reaching communities and from supervising the work of sub-contracting
agencies responsible for the facilitation of participatory processes at the community level. To
ensure that the project can be effective as early as possible in the implementation phase,
motorcycles, vehicles, and computers for a total amount not exceeding US$1.5 million over the
life of the project could be purchased through specialized agencies of the United Nations (
IAPSO).
Direct contracting (Sole source) may be exceptionally used for the procurement of HIV rapid
tests with the prior no-objection of the Bank provided: (a) this test is proprietary and obtainable
only from one source at a reasonable price and, (b) the aggregate amount of such contracts does
not exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 over the project life.
The aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement methods for goods are limitative
and cannot be exceeded without the prior no-objection of the Bank. The GTC will maintain a
tracking system to monitor such procurement in order to alert the Bank timely when this may
occur.
The procedures followed, and total aggregate amount for all shopping methods under the project,
will be reviewed after six months of project operations; depending on performance, and the results
of the review, the total aggregate amount may be adjusted downward where necessary. Standard
request forms and establishment of guidelines for conduct of the shopping method (as per the
June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping") should be prepared and included in the
PIM). These aggregate limits do not include contracts under the Support to Local Response
Component.
Community-Based Procurement
The Africa Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based
Investments (February 1998) will be used in the design of procurement under this aspect of the
project but cognizance of local practices and the capacity of communities to manage the process
- 67 -



will be an important consideration. The GTC will be responsible for ensuring compliance with
these guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the
Bank and independent consultants appointed by the GTC. Simplified procurement and
disbursement procedures for community-based programs, including the positive list of items
qualifying under this component, will be developed and included in the Project Implementation
Manual for approval by IDA. The PIM will also include procedures for IDA prior review
thresholds for NGOs, private sector, and other community initiatives.
Several aspects of the program implementation will be sub-contracted including facilitation of
cotnmunity participation processes: At the beginning of program implementation, the PHAC/GTP
will identify all organizations in the Province who have capacity to facilitate participation
processes at the community level. Annual contracts will be established between the PHAC/GTP
and these organizations to specify which organization will be responsible for facilitation of
participatory processes in which areas. The contract will also stipulate the financial and technical
support the sub-contracting agencies will receive from the project to carry out their assignment.
The sub-contracting agencies' field work will be supervised by the PHAC/GTP.
Field staff from various sub-contracting agencies will facilitate the communities to carry out the
participatory process to determine their HIV/AIDS action plans. The PHAC/GTP will be
responsible for the identification, selection, and contracting of these sub-contracting agencies to
implement the facilitation of participatory processes. Through press announcements, all
institutions working with communities in a given province will be invited to express interest in the
program and to provide information about the operations and organization of the institution. After
an initial screening process on the basis of the information provided, those organizations that
appear to have sufficient capacity will be invited to a provincial workshop. During the workshop,
the participatory processes will be discussed in detail, and discussions will be conducted to
determine which organization will be responsible for the facilitation of participatory processes at
the community level in which areas. Depending on the amount of communities covered, the
sub-contracting agencies will receive financial assistance from the program to meet their
incremental costs. The agreement between the PHAC/GTP will be formalized in a contract which
is renewable on an annual basis. Prototype contracts will be included in the PIM. The total cost
for this activity is US$1.25 million equivalent.
Consultants services
The consulting services required will be mostly in the areas of HIV/AIDS education, IEC applied
research, training, community development, financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
information dissemination, auditing, and accounting. The exact mix (types of consultancy,
budgets, procurement methods) will be discussed and agreed annually during joint reviews.
Consultants will be hired through competition based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) among qualified short-listed firms, by evaluating the quality of the proposals before
combining quality and cost evaluation, by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. Least
Cost Selection (LCS) in accordance with para. 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, will be
used for audit contracts costing less than US$100,000; the firm with the lowest price will be
selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark. Services for facilitation of
- 68 -



community participation processes and sub-contracted activities estimated to cost less than
US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$400,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts based on Consultant's Qualifications in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. The selection of Individual
Consultants Services for small studies and other assignments will be on the basis of comparison of
curriculum vitae in accordance with paras 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Single Source Selection (SSS) will be used exceptionally for (a) training, (b) for specific task in a
case where only one firn has specific qualified experience, and (c) for consulting assignments
costing less than US$10,000 up to an aggregate of US$200,000 in accordance with para. 3.8 -
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. The GTC would ensure widely publicized procurement notice
to get candidacy from consultants (firms and individuals). Based on agreed upon criteria, the GTC
will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short-lists.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants,
short-lists for contracts estimated under US$50,000 or equivalent may be comprised entirely of
national consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are
available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be
excluded from consideration. The Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by the Bank
will be used for requesting proposals, and for selection and appointment of consultants. Simplified
contracts will be used for short-term assignments-simple missions of standard nature (i.e., those
not exceeding six months) carried out by individual consultants or firms. The Government was
briefed during appraisal about the special features of the new guidelines and the RFP, in particular
with regard to advertisement, public bid opening, and evaluation criteria.
The total cost of training, workshops, and study tours is estimated at US$4.35 million for the
project. Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the
basis of approved annual work programs that will identify the general framework of training or
similar activities for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number
of participants, and cost estimates. The training institutions for all workshops/training with costs
exceeding US$5,000 should be identified in the annual program. For training programs costing
US$ 15,000 or more, a competitive selection method will be used. Any and all "out of country"
training is subject to prior review by IDA. Post-reviews will be conducted from time to time to
review the selection of institutions/course contents/trainees and justifications thereof, and costs
incurred.
IDA Reviews
Goods. IDA-financed contracts for goods above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent
will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Contracts awarded below this threshold will be
subject to post-review during IDA's supervision missions with the exception of the first three
NCB contracts which will be subject to prior review. Draft standard bidding document formats
for NCB will be reviewed by IDA before credit effectiveness.
- 69 -



Consultants. Prior IDA review will apply to contracts for the recruitnent of consulting firms and
individuals estimated to cost more than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. The
prior review will also apply to the Terms of Reference of contracts, regardless of value, to
single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments
of contracts rising the contract value above the prior review threshold. In addition, the first two
contracts for sub-contracting the facilitation of community participation in each of the ten
provinces financed under the Support to Local Response Component, will be submitted to IDA
for prior review. For consultants contract estimated above US$100,000, opening the financial
envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical
evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and more than US$50,000 the
borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
proposals.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by GTC
for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision missions.
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual
basis. Modifications may be agreed upon, based on performances and actual values of
procurement implemented. Amendments to the Credit Agreement may be prepared as necessary.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB                                         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                            2.10           0.90          0.50           0.00          3.50
(1.90)         (0.70)        (0.40)         (0.00)        (3.00)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          16.90          0.00          16.90
Training & Audits                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (14.50)        (0.00)        (14.50)
4. Subprojects                      0.00           0.00          28.00          0.00          28.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (25.00)        (0.00)        (25.00)
5. Drugs                            0.00           0.00          0.60           0.00          0.60
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.50)         (0.00)        (0.50)
6. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00          11.00          0.00          11 .00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (7.00)         (0.00)        (7.00)
Total                            2.10           0.90          57.00          0.00          60.00
_________________________          (1.90)         (0.70)        (47.40)         (0.00)       (50.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes goods to be procured through national and international shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to manage the project.
- 70 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                  Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure     QCBS      QBS       SF8       LeS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category
A. Firms            1.95     0.00      0.00      0.05      0.50      0.30       0.00      2.80
(1.75)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.40)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (2.40)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.60      0.00       0.60
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.50)
Total   1.95      0.00      0.00      0.05      0.50      0.90      0.00      3.40
( (1.75)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.40)    (0.70)    (0.00)    (2.90)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 71 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
CO"tract ValueContracts Sujeict to
Threshold  Prourement              PrMo Review
Expe6diture Category     (U$$ thousands}             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                     >$ 100,000             ICB /lAPSO                  2,1
>$20,000- 100,000         NCB /IAPSO          First 3 contracts (0, 1 5)
<$20,000                  NS                      No
<$5,000          Community Participation
3. Services
Firms                        >$I00,000                 QCBS                     1,50
>$50,000-100,000             QCBS                     0,30
<$20,000                  CQ                 First 2 contracts
in each province
<$100,000                 LCS                     0,05
Individuals                   >$50,000           Comparison of 3 CVs            0,01
<$50,000          Comparison of 3 CVs   All TORs & Single Source
4. Subprojects                  N/A                     N/A                     N/A
5. Drugs                        N/A                     N/A                     N/A
6. Operating costs              N/A                     N/A                     N/A
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   4,5 US$ millions
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 72 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Ezpendfitui C    riy    -1* 7                          Figancing Pe     e
Subprojects                              25.00              100% of amounts disbursed
Goods                                    2.00               100% of foreign expenditures
(a) for vehicles, materials and                              85% of local expenditures
equipment
(b) Drugs and supplies for the treatment  0.50             100% of foreign expenditures
of opportunistic infections and STIs                         85% of local expenditures
Consultancies, Training, and Audits      12.00                       100%
Incremental Operating Costs              7.00                80% of local expenditures
PPF refinancing                          0.78                     Amount due
Unallocated                              2.72
Total Project Costs                      50.00
Total                                    50.00        .
Disbursement Method
Until such time as the Borrower opts to disburse on the basis of PMRs, disbursements will be
made in accordance with procedures outlined in the Bank's "Disbursement Handbook", as
specifically tailored above.
Disbursement Percentages
The disbursement percentages have been calculated in accordance with the Bank's policy on not
financing locally-levied taxes/duties. On operating costs and goods, IDA will finance 80% of the
total cost including taxes. With regard to consultants, IDA will finance 100% of the total cost
excluding taxes. The borrower will therefore ensure that (a) taxes/duties (where applicable) are
stated on submitted invoices and the disbursement percentage applicable to local expenditures for
goods will be applied to the tax-inclusive invoiced amount (such that taxes are excluded); and (b)
the disbursement percentage applicable to local expenditures for consultants will be applied to the
tax-exclusive invoiced amount.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Expenditures flowing through Special Account "A" will not be fully-documented and will be
disbursed entirely on the basis of a modified SOE, similar to the Bank's Form 1903-4 "Statement
of Expenditures - Free Format" through which the borrower can claim an expenditure volume,
based on actual disbursements flowing from GTP second generation special accounts, to
communities, during a specific time period without itemizing specific purchases. The NHAC will
design their own form and submit it to the Bank for review/comments prior to disbursement
commencing.
Expenditures flowing through Special Account "B" will be claimed on the basis of SOEs for all
- 73 -



expenditures related to contracts below the prior review limit as specified in Table B.
Expenditures related to contracts above the prior review limit will be fully-documented.
Special account:
The project will have two Special Accounts: A and B. Both Special Accounts will be held in a
commercial bank. Both Special Accounts will have ten sub-accounts, one in each Province.
Special Account A, will be used exclusively for transferring funds to communities through the
ten sub-accounts. An initial advance of six months of estimated annual disbursements (CFAF
2,800,000,000) will be necessary for the Special Account A considering the great dispersion of
communities, amounting to several thousand, and the uncertainty relative to the timing and
availability of community level disbursement information. Funds transferred from Special Account
A sub-accounts to communities, which may not exceed CFAF 200,000,000 representing 90 days
of estimated cash requirement, will be based on a previously approved work plan although actual
payments to communities will be calculated on the number of inhabitants and the risk factor
relative to each community. Replenishments of the Special Account A will be made quarterly, or
more often if initiated by the borrower, and will be based on actual disbursements supported by:
(i) evidence of satisfactory utilization of previous funds by communities based on their quarterly
reports to GTP, and (ii) community bank statements showing evidence of actual disbursements by
the communities. For each replenishment application, the borrower will attach bank statements
for the Special Account A at the beginning and end of the period under consideration, a
recoticiliation showing the amounts advanced to and outstanding at each of the ten provincial
sub-accounts. A spreadsheet format may be used by the borrower to provide for each provincial
sub-account, the actual net amounts transferred to the communities for the period under
consideration. No itemized detail of specific expenditure will be reported on the replenishment
application given the volume and diversity of the expenditures at the community level. Review of
the detailed expenditures at the community level to ascertain their eligibility will not be assumed
by Bank staff under a HQ type review, but will be transferred to internal auditors, local
operational audits and annual external audits
Special Account B will be used for disbursement of other project expenditures and will be
replenished based on SOEs (IDA form 1903, page 3) and backed by actual supporting
documentation held at GTC and GTP. The initial advance to Special Account B could be
equivalent to four months of budgeted expenditure (CFAF 2,450,000,000). The maximum
deposit into any of the second generation Provincial accounts funded through Special Account B
is CFAF 50,000,000.
Reporting and Auditing
Quarterly progress reports from the community level will first be consolidated at the Commune
level then submitted to the GTP level for further consolidation and ultimately to the GTC where
the final consolidation will be completed and the project activity report finalized. A standard
comrnmunity level reporting format will be used that would include at a minimum, the eligible
activities undertaken and actual costs compared to standard estimates for such eligible activities.
- 74 -



Standard estimated costs for eligible activities are necessary project management and will be
determined prior to effectiveness. Any expenditure which cannot be justified or which is outside
the scope of the agreed activities would be clearly identified and reimbursed to GTP. Such
amounts would be excluded from replenishment requests made by GTP to GTC until they have
been reimbursed by the communities.
Annual financial consolidated statements for the project will prepared by GTC in accordance with
generally accepted accounting standards as required by IDA. The project annual financial
statements will be audited annually by external auditors, acceptable to IDA. The audited project
financial statements will be submitted to IDA not later that six months after the end of each fiscal
year. Appointment of external auditors acceptable to IDA will be done prior to project
effectiveness.
- 75 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    3                           3
First Bank mission (identification)           09/10/2000                  09/10/2000
Appraisal mission departure                   11/05/2000                  11/05/2000
Negotiations                                  11/29/2000                  12/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 06/30/2001
Prepared by:
National HIV/AIDS Committee of Cameroon, World Bank, UNAIDS
Preparation assistance:
A USD 780,000 PPF was approved for this project. DFID provided financing for a local staff. Three
consultants were financed out of the Netherlands/Bank Trust Fund on Village Participation.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Speciality                           ____-__
Jan Weetjens (Team Leader, AFTR1), Adriana Jaramillo (Education Specialist, AFTH2), Agnes
Soucat (Senior Health Economist, AFTH2), Andre Ryba (Lead Banking Sector Specialist,
AFMCM), Angeline Mani (Team Assistant, AFMCM), Bachir Souhlal (Lead Natural Resources
Management Specialist - Peer Reviewer, AFRHV), Bakuzakundi Michel (Rural AIDS Specialist,
AFMCM), Bernadette Ryan (Consultant), Bertrand de Chazal (Senior Financial Management
Specialist, AFTQK), Claudine Morin (Senior Counsel, LEGAF), David Freese (Disbursement
Officer, LOAAF), Eavan O'Halloran (Operations Analyst, AFC07), Faustin Koyasse (Program
Officer, AFMCM), Guy-Joseph Malembeti (Procurement Officer, AFMCM), Hawanty Page
(Program Assistant, AFTR2), Helene Ndjebet Yaka (Disbursement Assistant, AFMCM), Hitoshi
Shoji (Senior Operations Officer, AFTPI), Jean-Pierre Okalla (Consultant), John Lambert
(Consultant, AFTR2), Jonathan Brown (Lead Operations Specialist, AFTQK/AFRHV), Joseph
Bonlong (Financial Management, AFMCM), Juvenal Nzambimana (Disbursement Analyst,
LOAAF), Keith Hansen (Senior Economist - Peer Reviewer, AFRHV), Luc Lapointe
(Procurement, AFTQK), Mark Blackden (Lead Specialist, AFTI1), Moctar Thiam (Senior
Transport Specialist, AFTTR), Remi Kini (Environmental Economist, AFTE1), Rima Al-Azar
(Consultant, AFTR2), Serigne Omar Fye (Senior Environmental Specialist, AFTE 1), Soulemane
Fofana (Operations Analyst, AFTR2), Tairou Wakili (Consultant), Willem Zijp (Lead Operations
Specialist - Peer Reviewer, AFTQK).
- 76 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Interim Program Implementation Manual
Draft manual for financial management and accounting procedures
First year procurement plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Appraisal Document No 20727 - Multi Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region
Environmental and Social Data Sheet
C. Other
National HIV/AIDS Strategy for Cameroon
*Including electronic files
- 77 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P000411        1995 Cameroon                  HLTH/FERT/NUTRITION                                 0.00      43.00      20.10      10.80      30.30       350
P000311     1995 Cameroon                   BIODIVERSITY CONS. GEF                              6.00       0.00       0.00       1.60       2.10       000
P041553      1996 Cameroon                   PEITA                                               0.00      12.60       0.00       4.20       4.90      0.00
P000393      1996 Cameroon                   TRANSPORT SECTOR                                    0.00      60.70       0.00      23.10      17.00      000
P055684      1998 Cameroon                  IUT DOUALA (LIL)                                     000        4.90       0.00       4.50       3.10      000
P054443      1998 Cameroon                   SAC III                                             0.00     204.10       0.00      88.00      73.70     77.90
P045348      1999 Cameroon                   AG.EXT.&RES. SUPPORT                                0.00      15.10       0.00      13.00       4.90      000
P051059      2000 Cameroon                   CHAD/CAM PIPELINE                                  53.40       0.00       0.00      53.40       0.00      0.00
P048204      2000 Cameroon                   ENVIRONMENT OIL TA                                  0.00       5.80       0.00       5 80       0 00      0.00
P065927      2000 Cameroon                   PUBLIC/PRIVATE PART.                                0.00      20.90       0.00      20.60       0.00      0.00
Total:       59.40     367.10        2010       22500     136.00      8140
- 78 -



CAMEROON
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1995/2000            AEF Comp Avicole                 0.25        0        0         0     0.25        0        0        0
1996                 AEF Notacam                      0.65        0        0         0     0.65        0        0        0
1994/96              AEF Proleg                       0.21        0        0        0      0.21       0         0        0
1999                 AEF Saicam                          0        0      0.36        0        0        0     0.25        0
1994/96              AEF United Trspt                 0.21        0        0        0      0.21       0         0        0
1979                 Alucam                              0     0.93        0         0        0       0         0        0
186/95               CICAM                              1.8       0        0         0      1.8       0         0        0
1992/94              Pecten Cameroon                    48        0        0       152    14.81       0         0    46.89
Total Portfolio:          51.12      0.93     0.36      152    17.93         0      0.25    46
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                              Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic
2000                AEF Complexe II                      0.16          0          0         0
2000                AEF Hobec                            0.34          0          0          0
2000                BICEC                                   0       0.70          0          0
2000                AEF Complexe 11                         0       0.17          0          0
1999                AEFEPA                                1.0          0         0          0
1999                AEFLUNA                              0.25          0          0         0
Total Pending Commitment:            1.74      0.87          0          0
-79 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CAMEROON: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharn        Low-          - 
Cameroon       Africa   income      Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         14.7       642     2.417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$)                      580        500       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         8.5       321       988
Average annual qrowth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           2.7       2.6        1.9
Labor force M%)                                          3.1       2.8        2.3     Gt4P                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993.99)                                 capita             e          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    51          -
Urban population (% of total Population)                 47         34        31
Life exPectanCy at birth (years)                         Se         50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 77         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               29         32        43                Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of population)        44         43        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     26         39        39
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% of school-ape poDulation)    78         78        96                   Cameroon
Male                                                   89         85       102             -     Low-income group
Female                                                 73         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999 
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             5.8      11.1       8,7        9.2
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                 28.5     17.1       18.4       19.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             21.1     20.9       26.5       24.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    21.4     20.1       19.9       19.0
Gross national savings/GDP                    16.2      18.9      15.7       15.2
Current account balance/GDP                  -12.5       1.8      -27        -4.3       omestic 
Interest pavments/GDP                          1.2       1.2       3.4        3.5  Domes                            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                36.4     43.1       96,9       83.6      avigs
Total debt servicelexports                    14.1      17.2      19,7       18.0
Present value of debtGDP                         .         .         ..      78.1
Present value of debt/exDorts                              .         ..    314.0
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   4.8      0.5       5.0       4.4        5.1                   Cameroon
GNP per capita                        3.3     -2.5       3.7       2.2        2.2             -Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         8.2      1.4     11.1       12.9        5.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                   30.8      26.1      41.2       42.3     20
Industry                                      20.6     29.7       21.0       19.7     sK
Manufacturing                                 8.1     14.4       10.4      10.6                 o, 7
Services                                      48.5     44.2       37.8       38.0 -ro                    9s   97   9s   99
Private consumption                           69.4     69.2       71.0       71.0    -20 I
General government consumption                 9.2      10.8       9.2       10.0              -GDI             0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 28.2      18.0      25.0       24.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.8       4.6       6.8        6.8    20
Industry                                       8.8     -2.9        7.7        6.3     l.
Manufacturinq                                 7.8     -0.5        8.0       6.6
Services                                       1.8      -0.6       9.1        1.8
Private consumption                            4.5       1.8       1.2       -1.0    -s                  9       97
General government consumption                 7.5      -0. 1     16.1       10.8
Gross domestic investment                      1.3     -0.7       17.9        6.1    -20
Imports of goods and services                  5.9       3.6      13.2        3.1                  Exports     m mports
Gross national Product                         6.2       0.4       6.6        5.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv fin bold) compared with its income-group averaae. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 80 -



Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1979      1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             30
Consumer prices                                 6.6     -1.7        3.9       2.9      20
Implicit GDP deflator                          12.9     -1.8        1.1       -1.2
Government finance                                                                      o79599
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                     0      94    95    so    97    98    99
Current revenue                                  ..    16.0        16.2      15.5    -10
Current budget balance                           ..      0.4        1.2       0.3             -      GDP deflator  - e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -4.5        -1.4       -3.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979      1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           1,354    1,837      1,800     1,689     2,000
Fuel                                          109      746        592       472          T
Cocoa                                         296      207        298       302      1,500
Manufactures                                   75      300        423       281  ,   000
Total imports (cif)                           1.271    1.352      1.452     1,498          i
Food                                           80      155        173       194       500
Fuelandenerqy                                 104       10        149        86
Capital qoods                                 370      424        403       407         0
93   94   95   96  97  90  99
Export price index (1995=100)                    97       52        105        84
Import price index (1995=100)                    50       50        101       100                  * Exports     a Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100J                          194      104        104        84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979      1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 1,248    2,307      2,306     2,249      0
Imports of goods and services                 1,672    1,980      2,176     2,289
Resource balance                              -424       327        130       -40
Net income                                     -336     -218       -469      -469
Net current transfers                            33   85   105   117                       _111111
Current account balance                        -728      195       -235      -393
Financinq items (net)                          781       -66        197       426
Changes in net reserves                         -54     -129         38       -34     -l
Memo:
Reserves including qold (US$ millions)                ..             11        11
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)               216.6    315.4      602.1     588.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS la
11979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          2.117    4.806      8,430     7.679
IBRD                                         130       572        350       294                     G: 91 A 294
IDA                                          127       239        701       735               F: 686            : 735
Total debt service /b                           178      406        454       404                                    C 176
IBRD                                          12        80         97        96
IDA                                             1        4         10        11                                     D441
ComPosition of net resource flows
Official qrants                                ..       ..        276
Official creditors                           268       337        237
Private creditors                            245       327          1         0
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..        -50        22
Portfolio equity                                ..      ..          0         0               E: 5,256
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0       150        185        28      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 50       109         82       112      B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           3        38         75        74      C - IMF                      G- Short-term
Net flows                                     47        71          7        38
Interest payments                              9        47         33        32
Net transfers                                 37        25        -26         6
Development Economics                                                                                                     8130/00
- 81 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Monitoring and Evaluation
Cameroon: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Introduction
The monitoring and evaluation component of the program will put in place a system to
measure the evolution of the program (process indicators), the products created by the
program (output indicators) and the success of the program in reaching its goals (impact
indicators). Ideally, given that the principal objective of the project is to curb the
propagation of HIV/AIDS in Cameroon, the success of the program should be measured
by the reduction in the prevalence rates of HIV/AIDS across the country. Unfortunately,
this is easier said than done and experts have advised that it is very difficult to predict
with accuracy the reduction in the spread of HIV/AIDS among the general population
over the next four years as a result of this project. Nevertheless, epidemiological and
behavioral studies are an integral component of the long-term National Strategy for the
Fight Against HIV/AIDS and will continue to be carried out by the MINSANTE and
overseen by the Epidemiological Unit of the Operational Section of the GTC. To
monitor the impact of the program as accurate as possible, the decrease of HIV
prevalence among young pregnant women, the military, and commercial sex workers will
be tracked as well as the raise in % of tuberculosis. The epidemiological and behavioral
studies will build on the work already initiated with the support of UNICEF, Ministry of
Research (AIDS Research Program), MINSANTE, and the Polytechnic School at the
University in Yaounde. As part of these studies, a map of the vulnerability (risk) and
prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Cameroon by region was initiated. This information was
presented and analyzed using the mapping software MAPINFO.
Underlying principles of the M&E system
Over the next four years, given the limitations of epidemiological studies, the process and
output indicators will carry a lot of weight when judging the success of the program.
Fortunately, accurate process and output indicators can be collected relatively easily and
can be managed and presented using the same geographical tools as the epidemiological
and behavioral studies. Managing the process and output indicators using a geographical
framework is advantageous because it makes it easy to:
*     present and identify interregional patterns and disparities of indicators
*     present and identify intra-regional relationships by overlaying related indicators
*     list and analyze all indicators by geographical unit
*     present the different layers of responsibility and coverage in decentralized system
*     identify strengths and weaknesses of the program to re-target resources
*     present the programs response (and progress) in high risk or high prevalence
areas
*     brake down regions into sub-regions to present more detailed maps (province,
- 82 -



commune)
*     tailor what indicators are presented on the map based on specific needs of analysis
*     organize all indicators in one system
*     extract unit specific information to perform more complex analysis
Because of the power and its capacity to analyze date from various different levels and
angles, the project will use mapping software to monitor and evaluate the program. Since
each indicator is logically linked to a given geographic unit - such as a village, commune
or province or other area (depending on the indicator) - the mapping software can be
used to dissect and overlay indicators from different angles according to the point of
reference of the observer and the objective of the analysis. For example, managers of the
program can easily overlay output indicators - such as the location of financial
institutions, coverage of NGO/Associations, and the establishment of coordinating
committees - on the same map as that of the impact indicators - such as risk areas or
prevalence rates. Presenting the indicators in this simple but effective manner will enable
managers to quickly identify strengths and weaknesses in the implementation of the
program and to target resources to re-enforce capacity or infrastructure as needed.
As another example, the mapping tool can be used to monitor process indicators - such
as the allocation of resources to communities - by shading the different regions with
varying intensity according to amount of funds transferred. This information would be
useful to the NHAC and the PHAC to monitor the effectiveness of the various financial
institutions involved in the transfer of resources to communities and would enable them
to engage partners in the financial sector to take corrective action as and where needed.
The strength of the mapping tool for monitoring the outputs and impact of the program
will depend on the relevance of the indicators and reliability of the data collected. To
ensure these, the project will implement a simplified system of data collection and
transmission. In the course of preparation, the project team has also identified a number
of key indicators as well as the units that will be responsible for collecting the information
on these indicators. A system was developed to ensure adequate transmission of
information collected in such a way that report writing is kept to a minimum and that
information recorded can be checked on its reliability at any time. Details are described in
the Implementation Manual.
Table I below provides an overview of the indicators and units responsible for the data
collection on the respective indicators. The first two columns in Table 1 list some of the
indicators that will be used to monitor the program and the corresponding zone of
coverage for each indicator. In several cases, the precise zone of coverage can be
approximated based on features particular to the indicator, such as area of population
within a reasonable distance from a financial institution. The last column in Table 1 refers
to the section of the executing bodies of the program (GTC, GTP, and CC) that is
responsible for recording, collecting, consolidating and verifying the information for each
indicator.
- 83 -



Table 1:
Indicator                       Geographic Coverage               Section of
Responsibility
Vulnerability to and prevalence of    Region of population served  Operational (Health)
HIV/AIDS                        Sentinel Site
Condom use and regular condom   Province                          Operational (Health)
use
Utilization of STD treatment    Province                          Operational (Health)
services
Proportion of pregnante women   Province                          Operational (Health)
tested for HIV
Proportion of pregnant women with   Province                      Operational (Health)
HIV/AIDS who have receive
anti-retro virals
Establishment of LHAC           Village or Community              Local Response
Establishment of CHAC           Commune                           GTP-Provincial
Coordinator
Establishment of PHAC           Province                          GTC-Permanent
Secretary
NGOs/Associations trained and   Village or Community              Local Response
contracted to facilitate participatory
process
Submission and approval of      Village or Community              Local Response
community action plans
Open community bank accounts    Village or Community              Local Response
Availability of basic services,  Region of population served by   Operational (Health)
medication, condoms and         hospital or clinic (village, commune,
equipment in front line health posts  etc.)
Sector Specific Focal Points     Nation                           Sector Response
Identified
Sector Specific Focal Point     Nation, province, or other region  Sector Response
established work plans to design  (will depend on the decentralization
and implement sector specific   the specific sector strategy)
strategies
- 84 -



Execution units in place at the  Nation, province, commune         GTC-Permanent
national, provincial and communal                                   Secretary
levels
Communities receiving funds for  Village or Community               Local Response
action plans
NGO/Associations identified to   Province, commune, or other region   Local Response
facilitate participatory process  (will depend on the region of
intervention of the organization)
Sector agencies (public and      Nation or region of population     Sector Response
private) that have prepared sector   served by the sector agencies
strategies
Testing centers and drug         Region of population served by     Operational (Health)
distribution centers             center (village, commune, etc.)
Financial institutions           Region of population served by     Finance and
institutions (village, commune, etc.)   Administration
IEC documentation centers        Region of population served by     IEC
center (village, commune, etc.)
Flow of funds to communities     Village or community               Finance and
Administration
Regularity of ex-post controls of  Village or community             Finance and
use of financial resources                                          Administration
Data collection and analysis
The program has four levels of execution: community, commune, province and nation.
Information on the indicators is observed and recorded at the lowest level of supervision
based on the information necessary to manage and coordinate the program at that level.
At the next level, information is verified, consolidated and analyzed so that management
decisions can be based on the actual situation. As a principal the higher level will be
responsible to collect information from the lowest level. This will provide managers with
additional incentives to go to the field and to ensure that information recorded in reports
is checked on the ground.
The implementation manual provides the details about the responsibilities of data
collection, transmission, and analysis. While each level will be responsible to extract
information on an ad-hoc basis to obtain reliable feed-back on the performance of the
program, the data will eventually culminate at the national level in the M&E Unit which is
housed in the Operational Section of the GTC.
The M&E Unit has the responsibility of consolidating the information from all the
sections by extracting pre-defined indicators from each of the reports and inputting the
- 85 -



indicators into the central database using the geographic information system which was
already put in place under the UNICEF program. The M&E Unit will prepare monthly
standard summary tables of indicators for each section and maps pre-tailored for the
needs of each section. Each map presents only the information necessary for the section'
s individual analysis, but may contain indicators from other related sections to enable the
managers to easily identify the progress of prerequisite activities in other domains. This
information will allow managers at various levels to identify strengths and weaknesses,
correlation among indicators, and patterns across the country. However, it will be
important to cross-check the information generated through the M&E system with the
information gathered during field visits. The first-hand information from field visits
combined with the information generated through the M&E system will allow each
section to plan activities and to address possible weaknesses on the ground. Monthly
action plans will be discussed at the monthly management meetings at all levels.
Quarterly, each section will prepare a more detailed analysis and presentation of
indicators within their domain and the interrelationships among activities in other
sections.
In addition to its potential as a management tool, the entire system should enable the
HIIV/AIDS Committees and their respective implementation units to generate timely and
reliable information for the purpose of informing stakeholders and decision makers in the
country and among external partners.
- 86 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Organizational Charts
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF GTC/GTP
National level: Groupe Technique Central
|Penmanent Sec:re7tary 
|Local         Sector         ICOperational                 Finance and
IResponse      Response                                     Administration
Monitoring and          Surveillance            
Evaluation                                 Treatment
Provincial level: Groupe Technique Provincial
| ennnt Secretary 
|Local      ||Sector       |   ; n |Operational    ||Fnnen
IResponse       Response                                    Adnisrto
Communal level: Correspondant Communal|
- 87 -



CAMEROON
National HIV/AIDS Program
Local Response          I   Coordination               Sector Response
(Organization of Demand)  I                     I       (Organization of Supply)
(1)  NHAC
|Sector A |    |Sector B|
(2) GT                 ainl| |National|
(3) PHAC              a) c-  _    _          o
Sub-contracting agencies for
facilitation of community
participation processes (9)
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3c cn <()C S 
Urban Groups    Rural Comm.   Vulnerable Groups
(7)  03                                           o         9i  
(1) National HI V/AIDS Committee (NHAC)
(2) Groupe Technique Central (GTC)
(3) Provincial H/V/AIDS Committee (PHAC)
(4) Groupe Technique Provincial (GTP)
(5) Communal HI V/AIDS Committee (CHAC)
(6) Communal Correspondent (CC)
(7) Local HIVAIDS Committees (LHAC: Urban, Village and Local vulnerable groups)
(8) Sector Specific Focal Points (FP)
(9) Subcontractors for community participation activities (NGOs, associations, etc.)
- 88 -



IBRD 27082
MALI   J      NIGER                                                    1r                                      _
t ~ ~         aka Chad           ( ~SUDAN                                               \      i      \
FASOINt.> ~                                                                 -e? CHAD  The boundaries, cohors,
\  i8ENIN )                                                              other Informationd shownr\    
< \   /  NIGERIA  rJH <\-   g        <                     imply, on this  po of not       \--
CENTRAL AFRICAN          ~~any judgment an Omhega
HANAt i f     .|        j   ~~CENTRAL AFRICAN _The World Bonlr Group,                                        < 
- -J/                             REPUBLIC .~ status of any t rritory, 
GuiTor  q-2;AMERO0N    R      C <                     or any endorsement                              Kouueri          CHAD          ir
or acceptance of such
~~AMEROON\\                             ~~~~~~~~~~boundaries.
tiUAr
UINceA   1<           NGABOIN nROMOTErB    0              20    40    60    oo  100  120  140   160
AnANTL'JC CC/AN     GA N
.v________________________                 ,    ,,                      . . . . t       EXTREME
MILES_ _  u     20   40   a       0   10              Marc   NORD
}   \    {          ~~~~~YrJgow \
CAMEROON                                                                                 Ka oX0
10-                                                                         bbi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2der   Y96\
o      SELECTED TOWNS                    ,                       J
# rGAROU
S      PROVINCE CAPITALS
PAVED ROADS
UNPAVED ROADS                                      j...
RAILROADS                                   ,_                     G bu o.
--     RIVERS                                                       0 0                 % i
_   _ _  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                         TchoHir-
-_   INTERNATIONAL                                                            NORD
- 8BoOUNDARIES                                                              1          ,            J                                 \\r                 r
UNDERE
NIGERIA,..-'    Wum(                             m          )                                                      eu   /
:/bngwi                             t, 
-6-   - (-~~~~~-    ~         r-    OUE,S 3!                                                            /Gr                                       6'
Momfe                                                                                                                     CENTRAL
UD-  B     Poumbon.                                                 Ndo~~~~~~~~~~~Yd~~           AFRICAN
CENTRIT                             ---                             REPUBLIC
/  OUEST   P6\          cog         nng
undembo                                                       No . n
Kumbo~~  *.                         -     Ebolco                   BER1OU        <\y~ctouo  a\
Bdro    U             LITTORA               no                                                                 NeI
kAk.r%QIingo\ *\    -ST Yokodoumy)E\
-9tKO               \8N  <9 "                                             *                Xomi6                            > 
EQUATORIAL                       ,         ,         rignilli
GUINEA                       j                    e SUD t',i
.ATA7COCEAN
I            EAN \g\',,*oloundw  I 
) RiCl MUNI   ,                   GA ON                           CONGO
JUNE 1995



