                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR0000718




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-34540 IDA-3454A)




                                         ON A

                                  PROPOSED CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.2 MILLION
                          (US$ 50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                               REPUBLIC CAMEROON

                                         FOR A

                       MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT




                                       April 2008




Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development Unit (AFTCS)

Cameroon Country Department

Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 2007)

                           Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                         1 CFA Franc = US$ 0.00223763
                                US$ 1.00 = 446.898

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS             Acquired Immune Defense Syndrome
ARV              Antiretroviral (Drugs)
BBC              British Broadcasting Company
CNLS             HIV/AIDS Committee
COSA             Local Health Committee
DHS              Demographic and Health Survey
DOTS             Directly Observed Treatment Strategy
EMP              Environmental Management Plan
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GTC              Central Technical Unit
HIPC             Highly Indebted and Poor Country
HIV              Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA              International Development Association
ISR              Implementation Status Report
MAP              Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
MDG              Millennium Development Goal
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO              Non Governmental Organization
OED              Operation Evaluation Department
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PLWHA            People living with HIV
STD              Sexually transmissible Disease
SWAp             Sector Wide Approach
UNAIDS           United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
UNOPS            United Nations Operations Support
VCTC             Voluntary Counseling and Testing Center



         Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
       Country Director: Mary A. Barton-Dock
        Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
    Project Team Leader: Francois Honore Mkouonga
      ICR Team Leader: Francois Honore Mkouonga
     ICR primary author: Jerome F. Chevallier

                                           CAMEROON
                           Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project


                                                 CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 11
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 13
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 14
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 15
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 20
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 25
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 41
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     CM-MultiSecal
Country:               Cameroon                Project Name:
                                                                     HIV/AIDS SIL (FY01)
Project ID:            P073065                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-34540,IDA-3454A
ICR Date:              04/04/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                     Borrower:
                                                                     CAMEROON
Original Total
                       XDR 0.0M                Disbursed Amount:     XDR 38.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
CNLS (Comite National de Lutte contre le Sida)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:        09/28/2001        09/28/2001
Appraisal:             11/06/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/12/2001    Mid-term Review:                        10/20/2003
                                     Closing:                                06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Moderately
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately             Implementing           Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:           Unsatisfactory         Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               12                12
Health                                                          40                40
Other social services                                           36                36
Sub-national government administration                          12                12


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                        Secondary        Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                       Primary          Primary
Health system performance                                     Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary          Primary
Population and reproductive health                             Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Mary A. Barton-Dock               Ali Mahmoud Khadr
Sector Manager:           Ian Bannon                        Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project Team Leader:      Francois Honore Mkouonga          Jan Weetjens
ICR Team Leader:          Francois Honore Mkouonga
ICR Primary Author:       Jerome F. Chevallier
                          David M. Blankhart




                                              ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To curb the spread and the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Cameroon through t he
strengthening of communities' capacity to design and implement action plans for
HIV/AIDS and through support to the design and implementation of sector specific
HIV/AIDS strategies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval           Target      Completion or
                                             documents)           Values      Target Years
               The HIV/AIDS prevalence rate as evidenced by HDS(2004) is 4.8% in rural
Indicator 1 :  areas and 8.4% in the urban; it is respectively 2.2%, 7.9% and 10.3% for person
               between (i) 15-19; (ii) 20-24 and 25-29.

Value          Initial estimation of 11%,

quantitative orbased on ante natal        < 5.0%
Qualitative)   surveillance in limited
               areas.
Date achieved 11/20/2003                  06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  5423 local HIV/AIDS committees established and are operational
Value
(quantitative  Not applicable             5,000                             7706
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/20/2003                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  105 Sectoral coordination comittees in place and effective
Value
(quantitative  Not applicable             200
or Qualitative)



                                               iii

Date achieved 11/20/2003                06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  300 implementing agencies trained on HIV/AIDS prevention
Value
(quantitative  Not applicable           50%               200          216
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/20/2003                06/30/2007        06/30/2007   06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  6335 Community action plans prepared and being implemented
Value
(quantitative  Not applicable           6500                           7706
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/20/2003                06/30/2007                     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  23 Agreed Treatment Centers and 65 HIV/AIDS care centers in place and
               functional.
Value
(quantitative  Not applicable           25 and 70                      62 and 611
or Qualitative)                         respectively

Date achieved 11/20/2003                06/30/2007                     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                       IP               Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     10/11/2001          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/18/2001          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    3.52
  3     03/21/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    3.90
  4     07/30/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    4.70
  5     12/18/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    5.70
  6     05/25/2003          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    9.29
  7     12/08/2003          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   15.96
  8     05/28/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   25.28
  9     11/18/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   31.52
  10    12/01/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   31.94
  11    06/14/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   39.72
  12    12/20/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   46.90



                                             iv

  13  06/09/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           51.21
  14  01/04/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    54.09

  15  05/01/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                             Unsatisfactory           55.21



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. In 2000, Cameroon was recovering slowly but steadily from the 1986-93 depression. In the
    period 1998-2000, annual growth was on average 4.5 percent. Despite this growth, however,
    per capita income in 2000 reached only two thirds of its peak pre-depression level. Social
    indicators had not improved, with some of them deteriorating even further. Large primary
    fiscal surpluses of about 6 percent of GDP were devoted to paying external debt service.
    Good progress was made in the reform program, particularly on financial, economic and
    structural issues, but little was done in improving governance and reducing poverty. With an
    unsustainable debt service burden, high poverty level and a satisfactory three-year track
    record of implementing reforms, Cameroon was declared eligible for the enhanced Highly
    Indebted and Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. A Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
    was under preparation and was expected to be completed in early 2002.

2. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) progress report was prepared in 2000. It recommended
    to complete implementation of the program set out in the 1996 CAS and use the enhanced
    HIPC initiative and PRSP process to support second generation reforms and to address
    poverty reduction issues more rapidly and effectively, with particular emphasis on
    governance, fighting corruption and the social sectors, including HIV. The Government
    strategy was to use HIPC debt savings on seven priority sectors, including health, education,
    HIV/AIDS, social affairs, rural development, basic infrastructure and governance.

3. Cameroon's first AIDS case was reported in 1986. In 2000, the HIV prevalence rate among
    the sexually active population was estimated at 11 percent, from a sentinel survey among
    pregnant women, and the infected people at 937,000, out of a total population of about 15
    million. In 1986, Cameroon established the Committee to Fight HIV/AIDS (CNLS). Four
    short- and medium-term plans were designed and implemented with mixed results due, in
    particular, to insufficient coordination among the various stakeholders and the scarcity of
    human and financial resources. As indicated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
    progress was achieved in sensitization to HIV/AIDS, particularly in urban areas, where 89
    percent of youths were aware of the pandemic and 57 percent had used condoms.

4. In September 2000, the Government launched its 2000-2005 National Strategic Plan for the
    Fight against AIDS. Preparation of the plan involved most line ministries, the private sector,
    the civil society and donors.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5. The objective of the project was to curb the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to mitigate
    its impact for all those who are infected or affected by HIV/AIDS through the strengthening
    of communities' capacity to design and implement action plans for HIV/AIDS and through
    support to the design and implement of sector specific HIV/AIDS strategies.

6. A series of output, process and impact indicators (about 18 in total) were listed in the Project
    Appraisal Document (PAD). Four high level impact indicators were proposed: the decrease in
    HIV prevalence rate among pregnant women (age 15 to 19), the military (age 18 to 24) and
    commercial sex workers (age 15 to 24), and the percentage of tuberculosis patients having



                                                 1

    completed Directly Observed Treatment Strategy (DOTS). A value was set for the first (less
    than 10 percent) and the last (60 percent) indicators, but no baseline was provided. There was
    no value, either at project appraisal or at project end, for the other two impact indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised; the Key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

7. As stated in the PAD, the general population, especially youth, women and vulnerable groups,
    were the main beneficiaries of the reduction in the spread of HIV/AIDS. Improvement of care
    and support to people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) would benefit close to one million
    people. The increased capacity to deal with the HIV/AIDS crisis would benefit the
    communities involved, decision makers, managers and staff in various sectors. HIV/AIDS
    Committees at national, provincial and local levels would benefit from increased capacity for
    policy and strategy formulation. Finally, communities, savings and credit organizations and
    financial institutions would benefit from streamlined procedures for transfer of resources to
    communities

1.5 Original Components

8. The project included five components: support to local response, support to health sector
    response, support to the design and implementation of sector strategies, capacity building and
    coordination.

9. Support to local response. Under this component, local communities would prepare their
    action plans with the help of agencies and non governmental organizations (NGOs) and
    submit these plans to communal committees and receive matching grants to their own
    contributions in cash or in kind. Participation methods, which were being implemented in the
    IDA-financed Agricultural Extension and Research Project, were to be adapted to various
    settings.

10. Support to health sector response. This component would support establishment of voluntary
    testing and counseling centers, improvement of blood banks, increase in the availability of
    drugs to treat opportunistic infections, distribution of equipment and materials for home care
    of the sick, support to private companies, and training of traditional healers and birth
    attendants in prevention and medication.

11. Support to the design and implementation of sector strategies. This component would support
    focal points in key sectors to design sector strategies.

12. Capacity building. This component would include training for facilitators, HIV/AIDS
    committee members, focal points, staff of financial institutions, and managers.

13. Coordination. This component would include support to small implementation and
    coordination units at the national and provincial levels and to the operations of one staff in
    every commune and HIV/AIDS committees at national, provincial and communal levels.




                                                   2

1.6 Revised Components

14. The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

15. N/A

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16. Soundness of background analysis. The analysis of the HIV/AIDS situation in Cameroon in
    the PAD was insufficient. The PAD provided valuable information on the most vulnerable
    groups and progress made in sensitizing the population in urban and rural areas. It indicated
    that condom availability was a major problem, particularly in rural areas, and suggested that
    the Government would undertake studies to clarify where the bottlenecks were. The 1998
    Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) was ignored, and no mention was made of any local
    studies in the project file (Annex 8 of the PAD).

17. More importantly, the PAD did not discuss the serious issues besetting the health sector. The
    Health, Fertility and Nutrition operation approved in March 1995 was rated as unsatisfactory
    for both project implementation and development objective at the time of the preparation of
    the project under review. The health project was eventually rated as highly unsatisfactory by
    the Operation Evaluation Department (OED) in 2001. The project was overly complex and
    risky in an environment of low government commitment and capacity, and poor governance.

18. The four lessons learned and reflected in the project design included the need to (i) scale up
    HIV/AIDS initiatives; (ii) sub-contract activities to private organizations; (iii) enhance
    community participation for behavioral change; and (iv) transfer resources to communities.
    With the exception of the second one, these lessons were drawn from broader African
    experience, not from Cameroon.

19. The rationale for the Bank's intervention was strong, but poorly articulated in the PAD. The
    PAD mentioned the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS for the Africa Region (MAP), and indicated
    that the preparation team endeavored to ensure that the operation would be truly multi-
    sectoral and focus heavily on the empowerment of communities in the fight against
    HIV/AIDS. The PAD indicated that IDA was well placed to help the Government make this
    fight truly multi-sectoral and field oriented, because of its experience with supporting large
    operations, such as the ongoing National Extension and Research Project. The team leader for
    the operation under review was indeed closely associated with the agriculture project, which
    was eventually rated as satisfactory in the Implementation Completion Report issued in
    December 2004. Also, as an active member of the UNAIDS group, IDA was expected to help
    mobilize additional support from other donors.

20. Project design. The objective of the project, which was to curb the spread of the HIV/AIDS
    epidemic in Cameroon, was clear, but its design was overly complex. It included five
    components, involving a multitude of organizations, both in the public and private sectors,
    and at the national and local levels. It was expected that 5,000 rural and urban communities
    would have designed and implemented their HIV/AIDS action plans, with the help of sub-



                                                 3

   contracting agencies and NGOs; 300 communes (out of 339) and 10 provinces would have
   established HIV/AIDS councils; and staff in 100 implementing agencies, 8 focal points at the
   national level and 80 at the provincial level, and managers and staff in the coordination units
   at the national, provincial and local level would have been trained. At least 13 ministries
   were to design specific HIV/AIDS strategies.

21. When the project was designed, a small number of NGOs had experience on participatory
    processes and the authorities were not used to working with the civil society.

22. As was the case with other MAP projects, additional grant resources were expected from
    other donors to complement the IDA credit, but without any details. The PAD also indicated
    that HIPC resources and budget allocations would be made available.

23. The handling and disposal of HIV-contaminated material were considered as the most
    significant environmental issues. The Environment Management Plan (EMP), which,
    according to the PAD, was to be developed prior to credit effectiveness, would address these
    issues. However, the effectiveness conditions included in the credit agreement did not
    mention the EMP, and preparation of the plan was much delayed. The Government made
    repeated promises it would prepare one, but the EMP has not yet been formulated.

24. Two social issues were mentioned in the PAD: the involvement of PLWHA in the design and
    implementation of the operation and the inclusion of highly vulnerable groups. The first
    category of the population participated in the design of the operation. As concerns the
    vulnerable groups, research was planned to adapt participatory methodologies developed in
    Cameroon to their specific requirements. It was carried out during the first year of project
    implementation.

25. The PAD indicated that, after modest government commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS,
    a change took place in April 2000, when the Government initiated the preparation of its
    Strategic Plan, with the help of UNAIDS. The 2000 budget of the Ministry of Health was
    increased by CFAF 2 billion (about US$2.6 million) to address the HIV/AIDS crisis. Many
    initiatives were undertaken to sensitize the population to its impact. The eligibility criteria for
    access to the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) were met, including the evidence of a
    strategic approach to HIV/AIDS, the existence of a high level coordinating body, appropriate
    implementation arrangement, use and funding of multiple implementation agencies, and
    existence of a communication strategy.

26. The risk of the operation was assessed as substantial. A number of risks were mentioned,
    including 10 from outputs to objective and 4 from components to outputs. In the first
    category, 4 risks were rated as substantial. They had mostly to do with the transfer of
    resources to communities in a timely and transparent fashion and the low capacity of
    financial sector institutions and coordination units. Weak governance leading to inappropriate
    use of resources was considered as a high risk, which was to be mitigated by strong control
    and audit mechanisms. No mention was made, however, of the risk that improved knowledge
    would not result in behavioral change, or that the AIDS stigma would impede support to
    people living with AIDS.

27. The financial management of the project was complex, with two special accounts, each
    subdivided into ten sub accounts, one for each province. Private accounting firms were to be
    recruited by the central and the ten provincial implementation units. Payments were expected
    to be made to 13,000 villages and end-users, but because of their dispersion across the


                                                 4

    country, accounting and reporting would be minimal. Supporting documentation held by
    communities would be audited by external auditors on a random basis.

28. The major risk of the operation was adequately assessed, but the mitigation of the most
    critical risk, the inappropriate use of funds, was not up to the challenge.

2.2 Implementation

29. The project had a slow start. The credit became effective in October 2001, almost nine
    months after Board approval. The selection of a private accounting firm to help with the
    financial management of the program took longer than expected. Eventually, a firm was
    selected, but its involvement in the project was minimal in the early years. Its role was
    reinforced in 2004, following the mid-term review of the project in October 2003.

30. The financial management specialist of the project unit was not up to the task and had to be
    replaced, but this took more than one year to be done. Procurement was poorly managed. The
    procurement plan for 2002 was not available during the supervision mission of February 2002,
    and agreed-upon procedures were not followed. The National Secretariat in charge of project
    management (GTC, the Central Technical Group) was weak and needed a considerable
    amount of assistance from Bank missions. In mid 2002, the Permanent Secretary of the
    National HIV/AIDS Committee (CNLS) was replaced.

31. The delays in project start and the inefficiencies in project management had negative
    consequences on disbursements, which were considerably delayed. By the end of FY03,
    before the Mid-term Review, an amount of about US$9 million had been disbursed against a
    total of US$30 million envisaged in the PAD.

32. A key component of the project was to help local communities prepare and implement their
    HIV/AIDS action plans. By the end of the project a total of 5000 communities were expected
    to have implemented their action plans, but at the end of the first project's year, only 123
    community groups had been involved. To accelerate the process, CNLS decided to outsource
    it to NGOs and local associations. In 2007, it was reported that 7,706 local communities had
    an action plan. Most of these plans were similar, however, raising doubts as to the real
    involvement of local communities. Over 12 percent of the plans were discarded by the
    National Secretariat because some communities existed only on paper or were not operational.

33. The central and provincial offices (GTC and GTP) were overstaffed. There was 138 staff
    working in these offices, including 59 at the national level in 2006. Yet oversight of
    provincial offices by the central office was minimal. The monitoring by provincial offices of
    the preparation and implementation of action plans by local communities was ineffective.
    Controls over how resources were used by communities were lax. Under these conditions, it
    is difficult to assess the results achieved.

34. The project was intended to support a multi-sectoral response to the HIV/AIDS challenge,
    even though the government strategy launched in 2000 was mostly focused on health sector
    interventions. The Minister of Health continued to provide leadership to the program. The
    Minister was the President of CNLS and was closely involved in running the program. In
    2002 the 10 provincial technical offices were put in place. They were all headed by staff from
    the Ministry of Health. By the end of 2002, doubts were expressed on whether the CNLS,
    which was controlled by the Minister of Health, would be able to provide the support
    required to all actors engaged in the fight against HIV/AIDS. During the Mid-term Review in


                                                   5

    October 2003, it was agreed that medical staff who were not able to manage resources, would
    be replaced. Five provincial coordinators were replaced in early 2004.

35. The Ministry of Health was late in preparing its own sectoral strategy and plan. The plan was
    eventually approved in 2003. Project activities under the health component were carried out
    by GTC, until responsibility for the component was transferred to the Ministry of Health in
    2003-04.

36. The Mid-term Review of the project took place in October 2003. The review focused on the
    report prepared by external consultants COWI on the institutional aspects of the project in
    August 2003. This report raised a number of issues, such as the lack of oversight by the
    national and provincial HIV/AIDS committees, the overbearing importance of the Minister of
    Health in the decision making process, the overstaffing high administrative cost and
    bureaucratic nature of the national and provincial offices, and the lack of monitoring and
    evaluation.

37. In 2004 a Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) was carried out, with partial support from
    the Bank. It provided detailed information on the HIV/AIDS situation in Cameroon. The
    prevalence rate in the adult population was estimated at 5.5 percent (6.8 percent among the
    female population). This rate was estimated to be consistent with the rate drawn from the
    2000 sentinel survey (10.75 percent among young pregnant women), which did not cover
    rural areas where the prevalence rate was lower than the national average.

38. The Credit Agreement was amended in early 2004 to increase allocations for health
    equipment and drugs. Inadequate counterpart funding for the project was a recurrent issue.
    Eventually, the Bank agreed to finance 100 percent of project cost, as part of the decision to
    change the country financial parameters in May 2005.

39. In 2004, Cameroon became eligible to the Global Fund resources, and received a grant of
    US$75.991 million, of which US$33.465 million has been disbursed.

40. In May 2007, the Government decided to distribute antiretroviral (ARV) drugs free of charge
    and to reduce by half the cost of testing to CFAF 500 (a little over one dollar). Availability of
    drugs remains a serious problem, however.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

41. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) has been consistently neglected throughout project
    preparation and implementation. The main text of the PAD did not discuss M&E
    arrangements. It did not provide baseline indicators. A rather theoretical annex on M&E was
    added to the PAD.

42. During project implementation, little was done to establish a system for M&E. The
    deficiencies in M&E were noted by supervision missions in their aide-memoires. The second
    and third ISR gave an unsatisfactory rating on M&E. The rating was upgraded to satisfactory
    in the fourth ISR (July 2002) to take account of progress made, including the establishment of
    a general framework for M&E, the finalization of the terms of reference for the baseline
    studies, and the decision to include behavioral aspects in the DHS planned for 2004. From
    then on, and until January 2007, all ISRs gave a satisfactory rating to M&E, despite the
    absence of a reliable system.



                                                 6

43. Efforts were made, including the recruitment of ten statisticians, one for each province, in
    early 2006, but without sufficient guidance from the central level, not much was
    accomplished. Different systems were put in place for the collection and processing of data
    by the donors providing assistance to the national program, resulting in confusion.

44. In 2004, a report card system was introduced, whereby local communities would make a self
    evaluation of their HIV/AIDS situation and efforts to fight against it. After adjustments, the
    system was further tested in 2005, but there was no follow up. It is a promising tool for
    improving accountability of local committee members.

2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

45. The inappropriate use of funds was a major project risk. In the last Implementation Status
    Results and Report (ISR) of May 1, 2007, procurement was rated as unsatisfactory and
    financial management as highly unsatisfactory. In all previous ISRs, these critical aspects of
    project management were rated as satisfactory, despite the problems mentioned in the
    previous section. In December 2006, the BBC radio criticized the management of HIV/AIDS
    funds in Cameroon for lack of transparency, and a local newspaper accused the Minister of
    Health of conniving with the firm in charge of internal audit of the project for the
    embezzlement of funds. The Integrity Department of the Bank was kept informed of these
    allegations. The National Audit Body carried out an audit on the use of project funds, but the
    Government has not yet made available its report.

46. In spite of efforts made by the Bank team during project implementation to reinforce
    procurement and financial management, serious problems persisted in these areas throughout
    the project's life. Procurement plans were not updated. Bidding documents were poorly
    prepared. Splitting contracts was used to avoid competitive tenders. Tender board members
    were not well prepared to discharge their duties. Provincial offices were poorly supervised by
    the CNLS Secretariat. Long delays occurred between contract approval and signing for major
    tenders. Records were poorly kept, despite the large number of staff in central and provincial
    offices. Important delays were encountered in providing accounting data and justifying
    requests for special accounts replenishment.

47. The PAD mentioned that an Environment Management Plan (EMP) would be developed
    prior to credit effectiveness to address the handling and disposal of HIV-contaminated
    material. The Plan was expected to provide health facilities with equipment for that purpose.
    It would also provide for the training of health and municipal staff in charge of waste disposal.
    As indicated above, preparation of the Plan was much delayed. Supervision missions kept
    mentioning that the plan was being prepared. They also indicated that health staff was being
    trained on waste disposal procedures. Eventually, an inventory of waste from hospitals was
    carried out. Despite the delays in the formulation of the EMP, compliance with the safeguards
    policy concerning the environment was constantly rated as satisfactory, until the end of 2004,
    when the ISR format was changed and the rating on environment compliance was no longer
    required.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

48. In March 2006, the Government launched its National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan for 2006-
    2010. The Plan aims to (i) reduce the number of new infections in the general population; (ii)
    achieve universal treatment and care for PLWAs; and (iii) reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on



                                                 7

    orphans and vulnerable children. This is to be achieved by actions in seven priority areas:
    voluntary counseling and testing, prevention and management of sexually transmitted
    diseases (STDs), promotion of condom use, blood safety, scaling up HIV prevention among
    youths, prevention of new infections among women, and scaling up prevention of mother to
    child HIV transmission. The Plan was reviewed by donors, who suggested that a Sector-Wide
    Approach (SWAp) be used. A program is under preparation.

2.6 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

49. A follow-up operation is envisaged, but within the context of a larger Health project. Before
    moving ahead with its preparation, however, the country team would like to come to closure
    with the corruption allegations and better analyze what worked well and not well under the
    project under review.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

50. The objectives of the project were highly relevant at the time of credit approval and are still
    now. The HIV prevalence rate seems to have stabilized. Nevertheless, the average national
    prevalence rate of 5.5 percent is high enough for HIV/AIDS to be classified as a generalized
    epidemic in Cameroon. This epidemic runs the risk of further undermining health outcomes,
    which have deteriorated dramatically in past decade. Cameroon is seriously off track for
    reaching its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), particularly those related to health,
    including HIV/AIDS. The Government has updated its HIV/AIDS Plan and the Bank has
    prepared an Interim Strategy Note (ISN) in November 2006. Fighting against HIV/AIDS
    remains a core priority in the ISN. A follow-up operation to the project under review is
    proposed in the ISN. It would emphasize community-based responses in coordination with
    other partners and with harmonized implementation arrangements.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

51. The HIV prevalence rate increased steadily in the 1990s. In 2004, as indicated by the DHS,
    the HIV prevalence rate had stabilized, which is a major achievement. On the other hand, the
    incidence of tuberculosis has continued to increase from 156 per 10,000 people in 2000 to
    174 per 10,000 people in 2005. According to national surveys, in 2005, the HIV prevalence
    rate among pregnant women aged 15 to 19 was 2.2 percent, among military aged 18 to 24, 6.7
    percent, and among commercial sex workers aged 15 to 24 it was 26.4 percent (this figure is
    for 2004). In 2005, the percentage of tuberculosis patients, who had completed directly
    observed treatment strategy (DOTS), was 74 percent

52. The project has contributed to raising awareness. The 1998 DHS reported that 78 percent of
    the population had heard of HIV/AIDS. In the 2004 DHS, this percentage was 98 percent for
    females and 99 percent for males. Knowledge remained limited, however. Only 20 percent of
    women had a complete knowledge of HIV (reject the two most common local misconceptions
    about AIDS transmission or prevention, know that a person in apparent good health can carry
    the HIV virus, and correctly identify three ways to prevent AIDS); for men this percentage
    was higher at 28 percent. More troublesome is that for young people (15-19) the rate is only a
    little higher (24 percent) for young women and (30 percent) for young men. The project has




                                                8

    also contributed to raising the demand for testing, but the supply is still inadequate to meet
    demand.

53. The demand for condoms has considerably increased, and the project has contributed to
    making them available to the general population. The 2004 DHS reported that 58 percent of
    women aged 15 to 49 used a condom the last time they had sex with non-regular partner. This
    percentage was 64 percent for men. These percentages were respectively 16 and 31 percent in
    the 1998 DHS. The contraceptive rate has also increased. Between the two demographic and
    health surveys of 1998 and 2004, the contraceptive rate (percentage of married women aged
    15 to 49 who use a modern method of contraception) increased from 7 percent to 13 percent.

54. It is impossible to assess whether the project made a contribution to mitigating the impact of
    the epidemic on those who are infected or affected by HIV/AIDS because the implementation
    of community action plans was not adequately monitored. There are signs, however, that
    progress was made at the local level in providing support to families affected by HIV/AIDS.
    A large number of mutual assistance funds have been established at the local level, and field
    observations, as well as data from surveys, point to a decline of the stigma attached to
    HIV/AIDS. Three quarters of the adult population believe that people with HIV/AIDS should
    continue to work.

3.3 Efficiency

55. The project implementing agencies did not endeavor to make the most effective use of
    resources provided. Control over resources was lax. The monitoring of local activities was
    inadequate. The performance of the personnel of the central and provincial offices of CNLS
    was not evaluated. Overhead cost was high. In a context of weak governance and lack of
    accountability for results, pressures to disburse led to inefficiencies in the use of resources.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

56. The outcome is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. Substantial efforts were made and
    progress was achieved on several fronts, including on stabilizing the HIV prevalence rate, but,
    in the absence of an adequate monitoring and evaluation system, it is impossible to measure
    the direct impact of the project. The results on the ground are not solid enough to justify a
    higher rating. It is also difficult to link IDA-financed activities to results, as other funds were
    available in the fight against HIV/AIDS.

3.5 Outputs by Component

57. Support to local response. Reports prepared by GTC, the central project unit, indicated that
    by end-2006, 7706 local communities had established HIV/AIDS councils, including 1015
    health committees (COSA). At end of 2004, however, about 12 percent of these councils had
    been found to be non existent or inactive. In the absence of a reliable M&E system, it is
    difficult to assess the effectiveness of these councils. It is clear, however, that without project
    assistance, a large number of these councils would not have provided services to their
    members.




                                                   9

58. All communes, with the exception of the two largest cities (Douala and Yaounde) have
    established local HIV/AIDS councils. These councils have supported local activities, but
    were not much involved in supervising actual implementation of these activities. These
    councils remain highly dependent on project support.

59. A total of 216 sub-contractors have been hired to help local communities prepare and
    implement their action plans. About 1000 people working for these organizations have
    benefited from training sessions supported by the project. Doubts have been raised as to the
    integrity of many of these organizations, however, following the observations that almost all
    the local work plans were similar.

60. Support to health sector response. Drugs for the treatment of STDs, tuberculosis and
    opportunistic diseases were to be made available in 90 percent of health facilities in
    participating communes. These drugs are reportedly available in close to 50 percent of district
    hospitals. The project was expected to establish 30 Voluntary Counseling and Testing Centers
    (VCTCs). With assistance from the Bank and other donors, 91 district hospitals provide
    testing, in addition to 12 mobile units. Early on, the cost of testing was a disincentive, but this
    was corrected in the past two years. The 2004 DHS reported that 21 percent of adult women
    and 16 percent of adult men tested for HIV/AIDS at least once in their lifetime. The number
    of people tested was multiplied by about 3 over the 2002-2006 period from 21,247 to 74,499.
    The prevention of mother to child HIV transmission took off in 2006. In 2002, 499 HIV
    positive pregnant women received ARVs. This number increased to 2,514 in 2005 and 4,780
    in 2006.

61. The management of blood banks has not improved. The epidemiological and behavioral
    surveillance of HIV prevalence in the general population has not been regularly conducted in
    the 30 sentinel sites, contrary to expectations in the PAD. This has made monitoring of the
    epidemic impossible. Distribution of condoms has considerably increased from about 1
    million in 1989 to about 13 million in 2000 and 33 million in 2006. In 2006, 28,403 persons
    benefited from ARVs, or about 6 percent of the infected population.

62. Support to sector strategies. Twenty one teams have helped prepare and implement plans in
    the public sector and 77 teams have done the same in private enterprises. From project reports,
    however, it is not clear how these plans have been implemented and what results they have
    brought about.

63. Capacity building. A large training program has been implemented for the benefit of all
    people who have helped local communities, communes, ministries and enterprises prepare
    and implement their action plans.

3.6 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

64. One of the project's overarching theme was to empower local communities, to give them the
    resources they needed to fight HIV/AIDS. Some empowerment took place, as a number of
    communities were actively involved in the preparation and implementation of their action
    plans. Little oversight on how resources were spent was clearly not conducive to genuine
    empowerment, however.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




                                                 10

65. Women at all ages are more affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic, even though they are much
    less likely to have multiple partners than men. In 2004, the HIV prevalence rate among
    women was 6.8 percent and 3.9 percent among men. The 2004 DHS reported that 39 percent
    of men had multiple partners. This was the case for only 8 percent of women. Women are less
    informed than men about HIV/AIDS. For instance, 43 percent of women identified the use of
    condom as a means of protection against HIV infection, while this was the case for 63 percent
    of men.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

66. The project contributed to strengthening a number of local communities. There is anecdotal
    evidence that some of these communities continue to provide services to their members. A
    large training program was implemented. Local institutions supported under the project were
    mobilized to promote activities for the benefit of their members. The availability of condoms
    across the country has considerably improved. The voluntary testing program has
    demonstrated its usefulness and has continued after credit closing.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

67. The fight against HIV/AIDS has been scaled up, but has not yet reached a strong enough
    momentum to continue without external support. The apparent stabilization of the HIV
    prevalence rate is fragile. Knowledge about the epidemic has increased, but behavioral
    change has been limited. The health sector remains weak and may not provide the support
    required for preventing and mitigating the epidemic.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

68. The project's objective was highly relevant. It was a key element of the country assistance
    strategy. The epidemic was a major threat to Cameroon's development and was undermining
    both the economic gains made after the end of the depression in 1994 and the efforts made by
    Government to improve social indicators, which had badly deteriorated during the depression.

69. The technical, economic, institutional and social analyzes for this project could have been
    stronger. The understanding of the local HIV/AIDS situation was limited. The dynamics of
    decentralization and local community empowerment were not analyzed. The government's
    commitment was too much taken at face value. The bases for establishing a monitoring and
    evaluation system were not in place. The proposed mitigation of environmental issues was
    inadequate. The risk analysis rightfully pointed out that inappropriate use of resources due to
    poor governance was a high risk, but measures for mitigating this risk were inadequate.

70. The project was part of a broader program for sub-Sahara Africa  the Multi-Country AIDS
    Program (MAP) - and, as for many other countries in the sub-continent, it was deemed that an



                                                11

    urgent response was required in Cameroon and considered important to launch a process of
    learning by doing as rapidly as possible. Without delaying action, however, project
    preparation should have been more thorough.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

71. The focus of supervision has been mostly on processes, not enough on development impact.
    It was more concerned with the number of participating organizations than on the content of
    their action plans and their effective implementation. Bank missions did their best to get a
    large number of activities launched throughout the country. They could not verify the quality
    of these activities, however, in the absence of adequate monitoring by the local project teams.

72. Bank supervision missions made considerable efforts to address never ending procurement
    and financial management issues, but these efforts were not up to the task. Monitoring and
    evaluation was not a priority. Satisfactory ratings for implementation progress  when there
    was a large disbursement gap  and for the fiduciary aspects and monitoring and evaluation
    were not justified. While there is the need to build on the project's achievements, adequate
    transition arrangements have not been put in place.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

73. The Bank performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The priority given to quick
    delivery of the operation made all supervision efforts more difficult. The lack of focus on
    results and development impact however, justifies the overall Bank performance rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74. The Government prepared its National Strategic Plan for the Fight against HIV/AIDS, and
    agreed that it would be continuously improved, including making it truly multi-sectoral. It
    increased the 2000 budget of the Ministry of Health by CFAF 2 billion (about US$2.6
    million). During project implementation, however, the program has remained under the close
    control of the Minister of Health.

75. The project implementation institutions (technical groups at the national and provincial
    levels) have promoted community participation to fighting HIV/AIDS through the signing of
    over 7,000 contracts with local communities. Preparation and implementation of action plans
    by local communities has not been adequately supervised, however, resulting in serious
    doubts as to the effectiveness of these plans.

76. Project management was less than satisfactory. Overhead was too high (about 20 percent of
    project cost versus 7 percent estimated at appraisal). Despite the larger than expected number
    of staff in the project implementation institutions, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of
    program implementation were not emphasized. There has been a persistent lack of
    compliance with fiduciary agreements.




                                                 12

6. Lessons Learned

77. Fighting HIV/AIDS when it reaches epidemic proportions, as was the case in Cameroon in
    2000, is a top priority. The urgency of the fight would justify accelerating procedures, but not
    lessening the rigor of analysis and ignoring basic operational principles.

78. The Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP), developed in 2000 and aimed at enabling African
    countries to scale up their programs against the devastating epidemic, was focused on speed,
    flexibility, learning by doing and reliance on multiple implementing partners. Scaling up
    promising activities makes much sense, but these activities must be clearly defined and the
    justification of providing vastly increased resources clearly made.

79. Implementing organizations have a tendency to become oversized, particularly when the
    project involves a large number of activities and partners. This tendency should be checked
    from the very beginning and constantly until the end of the project.

80. Providing grants to a multitude of local organizations is a risky business everywhere and
    particularly in a context of poor governance. It was clear from the outset that the risks of
    misuse of funds were high. Extraordinary precautions should have been taken to mitigate
    these risks and reduce the vulnerability of a key Bank-financed operation to corruption.

81. Pressure to disburse in a context of weak governance and lack of accountability for results
    leads to inefficiencies in the use of resources.

82. A monitoring and evaluation system must be put in place at the outset of an operation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

83. The Borrower's observations are in Annex 7 (Summary of Borrower's ICR).

(b) Cofinanciers

84. There were no cofinanciers for CNLS.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

85. Several development partners (multi and bilateral agencies) that were working in the
    HIV/AIDS domain at the same time as CNLS actively collaborated with the project. Their
    views     are  summarized      in   Annex    8:   Comments      of  Cofinanciers   and    other
    Partners/Stakeholders.




                                                 13

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
           Components                                                          Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)       Estimate (USD
                                                            millions)            Appraisal

SUPPORT TO LOCAL RESPONSE                  30.00                30.53              101.7
SUPPORT TO HEALTH SECTOR
RESPONSE                                     3.43                5.95              173.4

SUPPORT TO THE DESIGN AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF SECTOR                     2.30                3.04              132.1
STRATEGIES
CAPACITY BUILDING                            4.80                7.80              162.5
COORDINATION                                 8.40               11.10              132.1


               Total Baseline Cost         48.93                58.42              119.4

Physical Contingencies                       0.38                0.53

Price Contingencies                          0.69                1.05
                Total Project Costs        50.00                60.00
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                0.00
         Total Financing Required            0.00               60.00



(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal    Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds              Type of                                   Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing      Estimate      Estimate
                                                     (USD millions) (USD millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                             7.50          0.00           .00
Local Communities                                    2.50          0.00           .00
International Development Association
(IDA)                                                50.00         0.00           .00




                                               14

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Development Objective
The objective of the project was to curb the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to mitigate its
impact for all those who are infected or affected by HIV/AIDS through the strengthening of
communities' capacity to design and implement action plans for HIV/AIDS and through support
to the design and implement of sector specific HIV/AIDS strategies.

                    to curb the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic
                    and to mitigate its impact for all those who
                    are infected or affected by HIV/AIDS
                         1. Decrease in HIV prevalence rate among
                             pregnant women (age 15 to 19)
                         2.  Decrease in HIV prevalence rate among
                             military (age 18 to 24)
                         3.  Decrease in HIV prevalence rate among
                             commercial sex workers (age 15 to 24)
                         4.  Percentage of tuberculosis patients
                             having completed Directly Observed
                             Treatment Strategy (DOTS)
Annual result of HIV prevalence surveillance and HIV/AIDS vulnerability mapping were not
provided regularly throughout the project life span.

Component 1: Support to local response.
Under this component,
        Local communities would prepare their action plans with the help of agencies and non
        governmental organizations (NGOs)
        Local communities which have prepared their action plan would submit these plans to
        communal committees and receive matching grants to their own contributions in cash or
        in kind.
         Implementing agencies will be trained and contracted to facilitate participatory processes
        at the community
         Voluntary Counseling and testing Centers will be established
                       1.  Number of Communities which have
                           opened an account and received funding
                           from MAP.
                       2.  Number of implementing agencies
                           contracted to facilitate participatory
                           processes at the community level
                       3.  Number of staff in implementing agencies
                           trained to support the participatory
                           development of action plans
                       4.  Provincial HIV/AIDS committees
                           established

Component 2: Support to health sector response.
This component would support establishment of voluntary testing and counseling centers,
improvement of blood banks, increase in the availability of drugs to treat opportunistic infections,
distribution of equipment and materials for home care of the sick, support to private companies,
and training of traditional healers and birth attendants in prevention and medication.



                                                    15

Support to health        1.   Availability of gloves and basic
Sector response               equipment for home care of terminal
                              HIV/AIDS patients of front line health
                              facilities
                         2.   Percentage of health institutions with
                              drugs available for treatment of STD,
                              tuberculosis, and other opportunistic
                              diseases
                         3.   Number of Voluntary Counseling and
                              testing Centers established
                         4.   Availability of medication to prevent              462 sites put in place and

                              mother to child transmission in 50% of             functional in partnership
                                                                                  with Elisabeth Glaser
                              natal clinics;                                    Foundation , Glaxo Smith
                                                                                 Kline, Plan International,
                                                                                  UNICEF and private
                                                                                           Sector
                         5.   Systematic screening of blood in 60%              Data not available
                              of blood banks;                                   (Current blood transfusion
                                                                                 structures in Cameroon
                                                                                are not up to international
                                                                                    safety standards)
                         6.   Increase from 30% to 60% in covering              Data not available
                              of demand for condoms
                         7.   Number of Traditional healers and                           1419
                              Traditional birth attendants were
                              trained

Component 3: Support to the design and implementation of sector strategies.
This component would support focal points in key sectors to design sector strategies.

Support to Sector        1.   Number of action plans prepared by
response                      public sector(*) and private sector(**)
                         2.   Number of action plans elaborated by
                              sector Focal Points to develop sector
                              specific strategies with the involvement
                              of all public, private and semi-private
                              agencies and organizations in the sector
                         3.   Amount of resources re-allocated by
                              sectors to support the implementation
                              their specific strategies (use of HIPC
                              resources, re-allocation of public
                              resources, retro-fitting of donor
                              financed projects)

Component 4: Capacity building.
This component would include training for facilitators, HIV/AIDS committee members, focal
points, staff of financial institutions, and managers.

                       1.   Number of staff in implementing agencies
                            trained to support the participatory
                            development of action plans

Component 5: Coordination.




                                                     16

This component would include support to small implementation and coordination units at the
national and provincial levels and to the operations of one staff in every commune and HIV/AIDS
committees at national, provincial and communal levels.

                       1.            GTC* and GTP** in place and fully
                                     operational


                                                   Outcome of VCT per Year
                                   80000
                                   70000
                       le          60000
                         eopp      50000                                  No. of people tested

                             of 40000
                             erb   30000                                  No. of people tested
                                muN                                       positive
                                   20000
                                   10000
                                       0
                                            2002   2003        2004       2005        2006

                                                               Year




                                                       Evolution of PMCTC


                      100000

                       90000                                                         Number of pregnant women
                       80000                                                         tested
                       70000
                                                                                     Number of women tested
                rebm   60000                                                         positive
                       50000
                    Nu                                                               Number of women tested
                       40000                                                         positive having received
                       30000                                                         ARV
                       20000                                                         Number of children having
                                                                                     received ARV
                       10000

                                    0
                                       2002   2003  2004      2005     2006

                                                    Years




                                                               17

RESULTS AND OUTCOME

                                                            Status of agreed outcomes indicators:
            Indicators                                                                     Measurement
                                       Baseline Value            Progress To Date                            End-of-Project Target Value
                                  Number or text     Date    Number or text       Date      Number or text    Date                    Observations
PDO Indicator                     The objective of the project was to curb the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to mitigate its impact for all those who are
                                  infected or affected by HIV/AIDS through the strengthening of communities' capacity to design and implement action plans
                                  for HIV/AIDS and through support to the design and implement of sector specific HIV/AIDS strategies.
1. The HIV prevalence rate        Initial           11/20/2 2.2 % (DHS          06/30/20 < 10.0%            06/30/20 Annual result of HIV prevalence
   among young women ( age 15 estimation of         003     Survey              07                          07        surveillance and HIV/AIDS vulnerability
   to 19) should be under 10%     11%, based on             Nationwide                                                mapping were not provided regularly
                                  ante natal                2004)                                                     throughout the project life span
                                  surveillance in
                                  limited areas.
Intermediate outcome
indicator(s)
1. Increase in functioning        Not applicable            5000                06/30/20 7706               06/30/20 The number of local committees put in
HIV/AIDS Council at community                                                   07                          07        place reflects great enthusiasm among
levels with well established work                                                                                     population at the grassroots level but,
programs                                                                                                              the quality of work plans produced is
                                                                                                                      still questionable. Very little specificity
                                                                                                                      and sense of innovation was recorded. In
                                                                                                                      August 2005 suspension of funding of
                                                                                                                      these committees occurs due to a lack of
                                                                                                                      justification of their performance and
                                                                                                                      efficiency. Above all, significant number
                                                                                                                      of fictitious or irregular committees
                                                                                                                      was recorded
2. Increase in implementing       Not applicable            200                 06/30/20 216                06/30/20 During the first phase of the project,
agencies contracted to facilitate                                               07                          07        number of Associations and NGOs were
participatory processes at the                                                                                        recruited and their personnel trained on
community level                                                                                                       participatory approaches. After the
                                                                                                                      second year of implementation they were
                                                                                                                      left out in the cold for non satisfactory
                                                                                                                      implementation rate and poor results in
                                                                                                                      monitoring of communities' work.
                                                                                                                      Project staff gradually replaced
                                                                                                                      contracted associations and NGOs.
2.1. Number of staff in           Not applicable            100                 06/30/07 1000               06/30/20 The project gave the opportunity to train
implementing agencies trained                                                                               07        more than 1000 "pair ducateurs" but
to support the participatory                                                                                          unfortunately they have not been
development of action plans                                                                                           optimally utilized in terms of follow up
                                                                                                                      work.
2.2. Implementing agencies will   Not applicable            5000                2004       3,500                      Implementing agencies `work was
have facilitated the participatory                                                         committees put             characterized by a rush for creating new
design and implementation of                                                               in place but no            committees without putting enough
community action plans against                                                             evidence of                emphasis on the quality of communities
HIV/AIDS                                                                                   effective work             work plans. Most of the plan did contain
                                                                                           plans                      the same set of activities without
                                                                                                                      reference to sociological characteristics
                                                                                                                      of various communities impacting on the
                                                                                                                      epidemic.
2.3. Communities will have        Not applicable            5000                           7706 Opened                At beginning, the financial sector did not
opened accounts and received                                                               their accounts             provide adequate institutional capacity
funding from MAP.                                                                                                     to accommodate several thousands of
                                                                                                                      accounts for communities. The project
                                                                                                                      had to negotiate with Micro finance
                                                                                                                      institutions in order to facilitate
                                                                                                                      transactions at the grassroots level. In
                                                                                                                      fact only MFI could ensure national
                                                                                                                      coverage.
3. Percentage of health           Not applicable            50%                 06/30/20   47%              06/30/20 The implementation of the Health sector
institutions with drugs available                                               07                          07        HIV/AIDS strategy as far as information
for treatment of STD,                                                                                                 availability is concerned suffered from
tuberculosis, and other                                                                                               lack of Collaboration and coordination
opportunistic diseases                                                                                                between the Ministry of health
                                                                                                                      monitoring system and Communal /
                                                                                                                      Provincial HIV/AIDS Committees. Their
                                                                                                                      relationship was subject to some
                                                                                                                      tensions, resulting in poor quality
                                                                                                                      information.
3.1 Voluntary Counseling and      Not applicable            Not applicable                 611
testing Centers established and
operational by end of project;
3.2 Availability of medication to                            50%                           462 sites put in           The follow-up of drug availability for the




                                                                          18

prevent mother to child                                                       place and                 treatment of STD and tuberculosis and
transmission in 50% of natal                                                  functional in             opportunistic diseases as well as other
clinics;                                                                      partnership with          activities conducted such as VCT,
                                                                              Elisabeth Glaser          availability of medication to prevent
                                                                              Foundation ,              mother to child transmission has not
                                                                              Glaxo Smith               been an easy task at the level of health
                                                                              Kline, Plan               centers and clinics due to staff turnover
                                                                              International,            and resources spread too thinly across
                                                                              UNICEF and                multiple project objectives and clinics.
                                                                              private Sector            The CNLS had to develop a parallel
3.3 Systematic screening of                          .60%                    Current blood              system for data collection.
blood in 60% of blood banks;                                                  transfusion
                                                                              structures in
                                                                              Cameroon are
                                                                              not up to
                                                                              international
                                                                              safety standards
3.4 Increase from 30% to 60% in                      60%
covering of demand for
condoms;
3. 5 Availability of gloves and                      50% of front
basic equipment for home care                        line health
of terminal HIV/AIDS patients of                     facilities
front line health facilities
3.6. Toolkit will be available and                                            1419 Traditional
traditional healers and                                                       healers and
traditional birth attendants will                                             Traditional birth
have been trained on HIV/AIDS                                                 attendants were
prevention and mitigation.                                                    trained, but no
                                                                              follow-up in
                                                                              their daily
                                                                              activities was
                                                                              organized.
4. Number of action plans          Not applicable    12 and 60       06/30/20 21 and 77        06/30/20
prepared by public sector(*) and                                     07       respectively     07
private sector(**)
4.1. Elaboration of action plans                     80 in both               98                        Most of actions plans prepared by public
by sector Focal Points to                            public and                                         sector contain the same set of activities,
develop sector specific strategies                   private sectors                                    without any reference to sector
with the involvement of all                                                                             specificities.
public, private and semi-private
agencies and organizations in
the sector
4.2. Sector strategies address                       Not applicable                                     Most of public sector strategies
prevention and mitigation                                                                               elaborated are not specific enough to
among staff working in the                                                                              address the identified challenges in the
sector and their families, the                                                                          sector.
public being served by the sector                                                                       The private sector ones seems to be more
and adequate communication                                                                              adequate to their needs. In general
strategy geared to the sector                                                                           communications aspects should be
specific needs                                                                                          reinforced to help promote real
4.3. Re-allocation of available                      Not applicable                                     ownership.
resources to finance
implementation of sector specific
strategies (use of HIPC
resources, re-allocation of
public resources, retro-fitting of
donor financed projects)
5. Number of agreed Treatment      Not applicable                    06/30/20 62 and 611       06/30/20 In the public sectors, this opportunity
Centers (*) and HIV/AIDS care                                        07                        07       has not been used. The private sector
centers (**) in place and                                                                               through few companies had to re-
functional.                                                                                             allocate their own resource to implement
                                                                                                        their strategy (AES-SONEL, ALUCAM,
                                                                                                        ...)
                                                                                                        This indicator was introduced during
                                                                                                        implementation to strengthen emphasis
                                                                                                        on treatment in addition to awareness
                                                                                                        raising




                                                                  19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Separate economic and financial analyses are not applicable to MAP projects.




                                          20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                           Title              Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending



Supervision/ICR

Jan Weetjens               Lead Knowledge & Learning Off.    HRSLB  Project TTL at
                                                                    Appraisal

Jean Delion                 Sr. Operations Officer           AFTCS  Project TTL during
                                                                    implementation
                                                                    All aspects related to
Nicolas Ahouissoussi        Sr. Agriculture Economist        AFTAR  local response and
                                                                    civil society

Michel Bakuzakundi          Consultant                       AFMCM  All aspects related to
                                                                    sectors response
Jean Delimard               Consultant                       AFTPC
Fathma Diana Jalloh         Junior Professional Associate           All M&E aspects

Kouami Hounsinou Messan    Procurement Specialist.           AFTPC  All aspects related to
                                                                    procurement

Francois Honore Mkouonga    Rural Development Specialist     AFTAR  All aspects related to
                                                                    local response

Helene Simonne Ndjebet Yaka Operations Analyst               AFMCM  All related aspects to
                                                                    disbursement
                                                                    All aspects related to
Fridolin Ondobo            Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM  Financial
                                                                    management
Pooshpa Muni Reddi         Program Assistant                 MNSED  All secretarial aspects

Anselm Schneider           Human Development Specialist      AFTH3  All aspects related to
                                                                    health

Miriam Schneidman           Sr. Health Specialist.           AFTH3  All aspects related to
                                                                    health

Ousmane Seck               Sr. Rural Development Specialist  AFTAR  Related aspects to
                                                                    operations




                                              21

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                   34                          161.53
  FY02                                   13                           64.54
  FY03                                                                 0.80
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00

                         Total:          47                          226.87
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                    9                           70.01
  FY03                                   36                          142.23
  FY04                                   34                          198.75
  FY05                                   55                          174.19
  FY06                                   59                          195.27
  FY07                                   33                          120.47
  FY08                                    7                           12.65

                         Total:        233                           913.57




                                     22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey was conducted for this operation.




                                          23

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

There has been no Stakeholder workshop for this project.




                                        24

      Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

Cameroon's response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic was early with the establishment of the National
AIDS control Programme as early as 1986. Up till 1999, the action embarked upon was set out in
several components, in the long and short runs developed and implemented by the Ministry of
Public Health. Unfortunately, the inadequacy of resources and the heavy concentration of the
control effort on only the health sector and the insufficient involvement of the other sectors of
national life did not make it possible to curb the spread of the disease. In the face of increased
HIV-prevalence, the President of the Republic, expressing an unprecedented political will, made
the control of this disease one of the national priorities and urged the government to take up the
challenge. A National AIDS Control Strategic Plan aiming to strengthen the response within the
framework of the National Strategy for the Control of this pandemic was developed for the 2000-
2005 period with the support of development partners. This plan was presented to the national
and international community on 4 September 2000 by the Prime Minister, Head of Government.
From that time on, AIDS was identified as a development problem and as such, the control
thereof is part of one of the priorities of Cameroon's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The
2000-2005 Strategic Plan aimed to reverse the trend of HIV prevalence and to reduce the socio-
economic impact of the epidemic in Cameroon, incorporating therein all sectors of national life. It
included an operational plan in 6 intervention areas and a 2000-2002 emergency plan.

The priority intervention areas included:
    -   prevention of HIV/AIDS and transmission of STIs through behaviour change;
    -   prevention of HIV transmission in hospitals by blood contamination;
    -   provision of clinical and home-based community care for persons living with HIV/AIDS;
    -   definition of an ethics, legal and human rights framework for persons living with
        HIV/AIDS;
    -   strengthening of HIV/AIDS and monitoring programme;
    -   programme management and coordination.

The emergency plan on its part targeted high-risk population groups (men in uniform, students,
sex workers, prison population and truck drivers and focused on three points:
    -   use of condoms (male and female); there was talk then of the 100% condom
    -   strategy;
    -   voluntary counselling and testing (VCT);
    -   promotion of behaviour change among youth of between 15 and 24 years.

The 2000 -2005 strategic plan, by opening up to others (Ministries other than Health, the private
sector and NGOs), is part of the national poverty reduction strategy.

To achieve these goals, Cameroon and the World Bank in March 2001 signed a US$50 million
grant agreement within the framework of MAP funding, which supported the 2000-2005 NSP in
five components:
    -   support to local interventions: this centered on assistance to communities in their efforts
        to prevent and reduce the effects of the pandemic;
    -   support to the development and implementation of sector strategies;
    -   support to health response interventions;
    -   capacity building for stakeholders involved in the control effort in the public,
    -   private and civil society sectors; and
    -   coordination.


                                                 25

At the end of the period of implementation of the 2000-2005 National Strategic Plan, it is
necessary to draft a general end-of-project report with the purpose of bringing out the
accomplishments and achievements and lessons learnt during the operationalisation of MAP 1 the
initial objective of which was to curb the spread of the AIDS epidemic in Cameroon and cushion
its effects on those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. The lessons drawn from this shall make it
possible to build on the strengths and correct weaknesses in the development and implementation
of a similar project.

I. Description of the Institutional HIV/AIDS Control Framework

HIV/AIDS and STI control is carried out within the framework of the National AIDS Control
Programme (NACP):
     -   The National AIDS Control Committee (NACC): This advisory multidisciplinary organ
         chaired by the Minister for Public Health is tasked with defining the general AIDS
         control policy in Cameroon.
     -   The Joint Monitoring Committee (JMC): It provides advice and ensures
     -   evaluation and control of the activities of the Programme.
     -   The Central Technical Group (CTG): This is the executive organ in charge of
         coordinating, managing and implementing the activities of NACP. Under the authority of
         the Permanent Secretary, assisted by a deputy Permanent Secretary, the Central Technical
         Group comprises:
             o A Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation section;
             o A Contracts Award Section;
             o An Administrative and Financial Management section;
             o A Health Sector Support section;
             o A Sector Response and Partnership Section;
             o A Local Response Section;
             o A Communication for Behaviour Change and Social Marketing Section;
             o Support executives and staff.
     -   The Provincial AIDS Control Committee (PACC): These are multi-sector
             o teams at the level of each province. They are tasked with ensuring the
             o coordination of AIDS control activities in the province.
     -   The Provincial Technical Group (PTG): It is the executive organ at the level of each
         province. Under the authority of a Coordinator, it executes AIDS control activities in the
         province under the supervision of the Provincial AIDS Control Committee (PACC). It
         comprises:
                 o A Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation unit;
                 o A Local and sector response unit;
                 o A Communication for Behaviour Change and Social Marketing unit;
                 o An accountant and support staff.
     -   The Communal AIDS Control Committee (CACC): It coordinates AIDS control activities
         within the council. Chaired by the Mayor, this committee has broad and multi-sector
         representation.
     -   The communal correspondent: He is the executing agent of the Communal AIDS Control
         Committee.
     -   The Local AIDS Control Committee (LACC): It is charged with carrying out AIDS
         control activities in a village, neighbourhood, a group of villages or neighbourhoods.

This institutional framework makes it possible to consolidate the multi-sector nature of control
both in the central and peripheral levels. As an illustration, NACC is made up of 12


                                                  26

representatives of various ministries and 2 MOH representatives, 14 members of the Civil Society
(PLWHA, Employers' Association, Churches, NGOs, etc.) and representatives of donors
involved in HIV/AIDS control. The institutional framework makes for great decentralization of
the control effort in the communities with CACC found in villages, in neighbourhoods both in
rural and urban areas. However, the weaknesses noted in the functioning and management of
CACC were behind the reorientation of community mobilization with the use of existing local
grassroots organizations.

This process has been ongoing with the decentralization of funding to the level of parishes since
2006. It will continue with decentralization to the basic structures of the sectors as nearly all
ministries have AIDS control units. There are no provincial breakdowns of these structures.

II. Presentation of Outcomes by Component

II.1. Local Responses

1. Objectives of local responses
The "local response" component was not taken into account at the time of development of the
strategic plan in September 2000. It is subsequently in the course of 2001 that the country
embarked on the implementation thereof. The objective of Local Response was to elicit the
response of grassroots communities through assistance provided to the latter by the Programme in
their efforts to prevent and reduce the effects of the AIDS crisis.

Specifically, focus was on:
             o Developing and adapting methodological tools on participatory approaches
                  adapted to the various target groups in order to elicit local response;
             o Providing support to subcontracting structures in the implementation of the
                  process of community participation in AIDS control in the communities;
             o Developing ways and means of transferring resources towards the communities
                  to support the execution of Community AIDS control Action Plans (CAP) drawn
                  up to this effect and the rational use of the resources transferred;
             o Facilitating, monitoring, supervising and controlling the execution of agreements,
                  contracts and conditions of contract drawn up with subcontracting agencies;
             o Preparing the contractual framework for collaboration and implementation of
                  local response strategies.

2. Local response implementation strategies
Local response is developed in five phases:
    1. Identification of communities to be mobilized for implementation of AIDS control
         activities;
    2. Participatory development of community action plans with the involvement of all social
         groups (vulnerable groups: women and youths) and especially Persons Living with
         HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in the planning and execution of activities.
    3. Capacity building for the stakeholders. This process of capacity building for secondary
         NGOs (Local Support Organizations) was renewed each year following selection of the
         latter subsequent to a call for expression of interest.
    4. Implementation of the community participation process. Following the identification of
         communities to be mobilized, the population of the latter formed social/professional sub
         groups according to sex, age, centre of interest in order to receive technical support from
         a subcontracting structure in view of developing an annual community AIDS control
         action plan. This plan includes a set of activities considered by the community among


                                                   27

        which the following were considered eligible for financing by the Programme: training of
        peer educators, prevention, promotion of voluntary testing, support to infected and/or
        affected persons, promotion of condom use, monitoring of activities and functioning of
        the Local Committee.
    5. Financing of Community Action plans (CAP). At the end of the participatory exercise,
        the community forwards a funding request file through the communal correspondent to
        the Council AIDS control Committee or failing that to the Provincial Technical Group in
        order to receive Programme resources for the implementation of its activities. This file
        comprises : proof of formation of LACC, proof that the community has grouped
        themselves into a legal entity with legal status, an AIDS control action plan based on
        which a request is made by the community for the financing of eligible actions, proof of
        opening of an account in an approved financial institution in the name of the LACC.

3. Outcomes of local responses
Local response to AIDS control mobilized 7,706 grassroots communities from 2002 to 2007, for a
total funding of 6 766 894 988 CFA Francs. These communities are broken down as follows:

          Table 1: Number of Communities mobilized and grant funds disbursed by the MACP
                                    from 2002 to 2007 per structure

              Types of communities                            Number          Amount
              Local Aids control communities                     5 739  5 665 662 323
              Association of PLWHA                                 176    464 872 665
              Women's associations (Communities                     20       9 250 000
              Women's Sector)
              Association of Public Service Staff                  101     76 500 000
              Association in schools/universities                  387    204 900 000
              Informal communities                                 179     17 610 000
              Heath District Committees                             89     71 250 000
              Health area Committees                             1 015    256 850 000
              TOTAL                                              7 706  6 766 894 988

4. Strengths and weaknesses of community response

Strengths
1. Mass action which affected more than 7 706 grassroots communities in all municipalities
2. Involvement of community members in the analysis of the HIV situation, development and
implementation of community action plans
3. Financial support of MAP to the implementation of community action plans
4. Improvement of community knowledge on HIV
5. Training of community volunteers for peer education for behaviour change with respect to HIV
6. Strong involvement of traditional, religious, administrative and local authorities in stimulating
behaviour change
7. Increase in availability and use of condom
8. Increase in demand for voluntary counseling and testing services
9. Reduction in stigmatization of PLWHA and acceptance of PLWHA by communities
10. Greater solidarity of communities towards people infected and/or affected by HIV.

Weaknesses




                                                 28

1. The setting up of local response was not preceded by a situational analysis to identify suitable
structures and leaders in the communities that could help define the best community control
framework
2. The setting up of special AIDS control management structures in communities sometimes
creating conflicts of authority with Community management structures already established there
3. Discontinuation of community activities at the end of financing calls for planning for
sustainability from the start of the project by incorporating the control effort in development
actions
4. Emphasis was laid on quantitative indicators of project disbursement, instead of qualitative
outcome indicators of the project
5. Low involvement of all community groups in AIDS control
6. Instability of Community AIDS control management structures the existence of which is
closely related to the existence of the support grant to MAP
7. The context of poverty in which some communities live and which compels them to allocate
MAP grants more to poverty reduction actions than to AIDS control
8. Limited blending of AIDS control with concrete poverty reduction actions as the priority of
grassroots communities
9. Non transparent management of grants to support community action plans
10. Low involvement of Health sector in Community HIV/AIDS control
11. Inadequate monitoring of Community AIDS control activities

5. Perception of local response by recipients
The following points emerged from the provincial interactive meetings organized within the
framework of the evaluation of the 2000-2005 strategic plan:
             o Inadequate training of various personnel at grassroots level and of other local
                  response stakeholders did not facilitate the implementation of local response;
             o Inadequate time to prepare local committees with very perfunctory training
                  without practice in the field;
             o Lack of real commitment on the part of municipal authorities resulting in the non
                  involvement of communities in the financing of HIV control activities.
             o Lack of credibility with regard to the setting up and existence of some local
                  committees;
             o Difficulty for communities to adapt to extreme standardization of activities to be
                  financed by the PTG with account not taken of the specific realities of each
                  community;
             o Low level of awareness of some populations with regard to the HIV situation
                  either by ignorance or bad faith;
             o Instability of Community relays (peer educators)
             o Unsuitability of communication to local realities (language code in particular);
             o Lack of cooperation between the PTG and other actors constituting part of the
                  weaknesses for the control effort.

II.2. Sector responses and partnership

1. Objectives assigned to sector responses
The aim of the sector response and partnership is to push all sectors (public, private and
denominational) of national life to get involved in AIDS control with priority to public/private
sector partnership for additional concrete actions beneficial to all segments of the population and
those at the grassroots level. Public authorities also associate the Denominational Sector to the
national response in order to: (a) supplement response to HIV/AIDS with a spiritual dimension
which gives pride of place to support and communication; (b) utilize the opportunities provided


                                                  29

by religious denominations in school, health guidance and social mobilization; (c) take into
account theological aspects in connection with HIV/AIDS and break the damaging silence based
on ignorance.

2. Implementation strategies of sector responses
A sector is made up of sub-sectors of similar activities or actors that can be public, lay private or
denominational. Each sector has the responsibility of working out its own AIDS control strategy.
To coordinate this process, contact teams are identified in each sector.

The CTG provides support to contact teams in the form of training on the methods of strategy
definition and on the problems of AIDS specific to each sector. Members of coordination teams
in each sector are selected by consensus and trained by the CTG with the technical assistance of
consultants on the methods of definition and implementation of the AIDS control strategy. Each
sector identifies a focal point made up of a team of 2 to 3 persons; members of this team are
based in their sector and are the interlocutors of the CTG Sector Response Section. Focal teams
of the sectors are tasked with coordinating the development of the sector plans.

These sector plans ought to specify:
(a) Specific actions to be implemented by each of the sub-sector (advocacies, capacity building,
mobilization and public awareness campaigns, prevention actions, etc.) and the monitoring
indicators of these activities;
(b) The terms and conditions of partnership between sub-sectors and mechanisms of integration
of their activities);
(c) Specific communication actions to be carried out within the sector;
(d) Mechanisms of financing the implementation of planned activities.

The sector plans is financed by the budget of each sector. For that purpose, funds come from:
(a) The reallocation of existing budgets of public and para-public sectors;
(b) HIPC Initiative resources;
(c) The reallocation of funds for ongoing project and/or new projects financed
by various donors. The financing of activities and the procedures of disbursement are clearly
defined in the partnership conventions. In fact, activities contained in the conventions are jointly
financed by NACC and the private sector (enterprises, Religious Denominations, etc).

The relevance of the advocacy carried out by the NACC Chairman made it possible to mobilise
significant funds from the following sources:
(a) State budget;
(b) World Bank IDA Funds;
(c) Funds allocated by UNAIDS to support interventions; and
(d) Funds accruing from debt relief to the Heavily Indebted Poor countries
(HIPC).

With regard to the activities financed by NACC, the budget of the action plans is drawn with the
participation of Companies on the basis of standards of calculation in force at NACC. Any
eligible activity has a work plan and a use of funds plan.




                                                 30

3. Outcomes of sector response
It was only in the year 2002 that the first conventions were signed with six (6) public
administration sectors (Education, Higher education, Defense, Women's, Social Affairs, and
Social Administration), 26 with the private sector and 17 with religious denominations. Among
these sectors having signed these conventions 23 companies were financed to the tune of 282
million, 15 religious denominations, 254 million and 3 university institutions for more than 11
million in order to carry out the activities of the first six months of 2004. The year 2003 was also
devoted to technical and financial support to the development of the sector plans of 14 ministries
and the National Assembly and led to the validation of the plans of 6 ministries which had
already signed their conventions in the year 2002.

Public sector
This support was limited to funding the process of development of their control Plans, funding
their implementation from the TTL's point of view, ineligible for IDA financing.

Religious denominations
In 2002, approximately 17 conventions were signed and 15 financed for the first half of the year
with religious denominations for a total amount of 253 981 333 CFA Francs.

4. Strengths and weaknesses of sector response

Strengths
1. Implementation of the multisector approach strengthening partnership between the various
sectors to cope with the pandemic which is a major obstacle to the socio-economic development
of the country;
2. Total commitment of the private sector to HIV control in Cameroon;
3. Capacity building of several focal points within each sector, so as to guarantee the permanent
availability of skills for the management of sector programmes;
4. Quality of prevention and management of STIs and OIs related to HIV/AIDS and by ARV
drugs within health structures of the denominational sector;
5. Management of OVC thanks to financial support from the authorities;
6. Ability of Religious denominational partners of NACC to design, formulate and implement
HIV/AIDS control campaigns in denominational settings and to manage crisis situations as
regards HIV/AIDS.

Weaknesses
1. The process of putting in place focal points, building their capacity and the development of
sector plans took much time. Indeed, the process which started in 2001 continued for the first
three years before the first sector plans were validated in 2003;
2. Weak commitment of officials at the level of some ministries who have not completed their
sector plans and are not mobilizing to seek internal or external funding;
3. Lack of sufficient information with regard to the execution of activities of the private sector,
the public sector and religious denominations.
4. Absence of control mechanisms with respect the use of funds granted to the sectors;
5. Inadequate supervision mechanism and technical support to the various sectors to properly
ensure the process of development of sector plans;
6. Non compliance with contract clauses by the CTG with respect to certain sectors;
7. Weaknesses, within the CTG and PTG, in the management and technical and financial follow-
up of activities of sector response; and
8. Inadequate decentralization of sector response activities.


                                                  31

II.3. Health Sector Response

1. Objectives assigned to health response
The objectives of the Health Response in the implementation of the 2000-2005 NSP were to:
           o Set up 30 voluntary counselling and testing centres
           o Improve transfusion safety by testing blood in 60% of health facilities providing
               blood transfusion services
           o Increase the availability of drugs for opportunistic infections, STIs, tuberculosis
               in 90% of existing health structures in councils selected in the project
           o Make available, at the level of sites, drugs for the prevention of MTCT in 50% of
               antenatal clinics
           o Distribute medical equipment for the home-based management of patients in
               50% of highly involved structures
           o Build the capacity of the private sector in HIV/AIDS control
           o Conduct HIV-prevalence survey or investigations at the level of sentinel sites and
               produce a vulnerability map each year
           o Increase by 30% to 60% condom demand coverage

2. Health response implementation process
The execution of Health Response activities to attain the objectives of MACP consisted in:
           o The Setting up, in 2001, of 16 Approved Treatment Centres (ATC) for the
               comprehensive case management of PLWHA, Voluntary Counselling and
               Testing activities, which constituted the basis thereof
           o The rehabilitation and equipment of these centres to make them functional
           o The development of training tools (Training Guides for comprehensive case
               management, Guidelines for case and data management, data collection tools,
               etc.)
           o The training of medical and para-medical staff in the comprehensive case
               management of PLWHA and PMTCT.
           o The provision of ATC with reagents, essential drugs and supplies
           o The designation, in various sectors of activities, of officials in charge of
               implementation of HIV/AIDS control activities
           o The supervision of activities




                                               32

3. Results achieved
Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT):
Outcomes of VCT per year
   Year             No. of people tested             No. of people tested Positive

   2002             21 247                           2 065
   2003             56 968                           16 071
   2004             54 538                           13 243
   2005             69 212                           10 440
   2006             74 499                           18 991

Two Mobile Units made it possible to carry out testing on 12,536 persons in 2005 compared with
14,524 in 2006. The purchase of 10 Mobile Units in 2006 certainly made it possible to strengthen
testing in communities. Prevention of mother to child HIV transmission (PMTCT) The evolution
of PMTCT from 2000 to 2007 is remarkable. Starting from a pilot site in 2000, the number
gradually moved to 350 sites delivering PMTCT services in 2003, and to more than 600 sites at
the end of 2006.

Summary table of the evolution of PMTCT from 2002 to 2006
Year      # of pregnant       # tested positive   # of HIV-positive         # of children born
          women tested                            women having              of + mothers and
                                                  received ARV as           put on ARV at
                                                  prophylaxis               birth

2002      23091               2219                499                       447
2003      28934               2467                1571                      908
2004      36864               3712                1711                      676
2005      52163               6014                2514                      1873
2006      90238               9308                4780                      4315

PLWHA management:
In 2002, a pilot management project was developed and adopted. Several training workshops
were organized for 164 doctors and 27 nurses making a total of 191 trained medical staff. In the
course of the same year, drugs were bought for the therapeutic management of OIs, with support
for clinical follow-up of PLWHA by the provision of equipment for CD4-CDB counts.
ARV supply activities were strengthened with an extension of case management for 13 ATC
targeting 1300 destitute patients following conventions signed between NACC and the ATC. A
guide for treatment with ARV was drawn up and translated and about thirty pharmacists followed
training on the dispensing of ARVs and OIs to PLWHA. A national strategy for equitable access
to ARVs and treatment of OIs was developed and a request was prepared and submitted to the
Global Fund. The commencement of the Global Fund programme in January 2005 allowed for
the scaling up of treatment with ARVs. From 16 ATC in 2001, the number moved to 23 ATCs
and 68 functional management units (MU) in 2006. From 2000 until the end of 2006, more than
2839 doctors and nurses were trained in the case management of PLWHA, 38 laboratories
equipped, 309 laboratory assistants trained and 450 community relay workers trained in
community support of PLWHA.

4. Strengths and weaknesses of health response
Strengths
1. Free provision of ARV drugs started through pilot projects and was generalized in May 1 2007



                                                33

2. Decentralization of HIV management
3. Free treatment of opportunistic infections
4. Free HIV testing for vulnerable populations
5. Recruitment of some PLWHA in HIV/AIDS control hospitals or institutions
6. Permanent availability of ARV drugs at the level of CENAME
7. Systematic testing of any blood donor
8. Building the capacity of central, provincial and some district laboratories in equipment and
reagents for two years
9. Application of safety measures by health personnel during the handling of blood products in
laboratories and hospital structures
10. Setting up of associations of blood donors
11. Development of standardized STI management modules
12. Lower costs of essential drugs for syndromic case management
13. Systematic proposal for testing pregnant women during antenatal consultations
14. Significant increase in the number of PMTCT sites
15. Inexistence of progress reports on achievements in management or treatment structures

Weaknesses
1. Poorly covered nutritional component
2. Insufficient collaboration between NACC and PLWHA management structures
3. Inadequate monitoring of activities of STI prevention and syndromic management or treatment
4. Lack of supervision to assess the level of achievements and the quality of care given to patients
5. Lack of collaboration between the technical coordination groups of NACC and the central,
provincial and operational health structures for the effective operationalization of STI prevention
and treatment activities in the whole country
6. Insufficient number of prevention of Mother-to-child transmission sites
7. Stock-outs of PMTCT inputs
8. Non involvement of traditional birth attendants in the process (training and sensitization)
9. Insufficient follow-up of mothers during breast feeding

II-4. Communication for Behaviour Change

1. Objectives assigned to CBC
The Communication for Behaviour Change and Social Marketing component is responsible on
the one hand, for facilitating, coordinating and monitoring the implementation of awareness
campaign activities targeting the population on the dangers they face in the context of AIDS, and
on the other hand, the institutional communication of the National AIDS Control Committee.
This Section is responsible for the communication strategy of the National AIDS Control
Committee.

2. Process of implementation of CBC activities
Communication for behaviour change (CBC) was not really taken into account during the
development of the2000-2005 strategic Plan. However, the need for communication was named
in the immediate actions to be carried out to guarantee success in the implementation of the 2000-
2003 action plan. CBC activities are implemented based on the communication strategy of the
National AIDS Control Programme which is considered as the centrepiece of all CBC activities.
This strategy document was available since June 2004, that is to say, three years after the
effective start of the Multi-sector AIDS Control Programme. Before this date, CBC activities
were implemented based on a temporary communication plan designed thanks to the contribution
of the Technical Communication Support Commission (CTAC) set up by decision of the Minister
for Public Health, Chairperson of the NACC. This plan built on various aids considered to be key


                                                 34

(road posters, folders, bill boards, small posters, radio and TV campaigns, insertion of
sensitization messages on books of pupils/students, match boxes, etc).

In June 2004, the communication strategy document of the NACC was validated during a
workshop that brought together various AIDS control actors.

3. Results of CBC
The main achievements of the CBC are as follows:
 the 2002 emergency campaign of NACC launched with the use of four components: A radio
campaign based on the production of a spot and a bilingual micro programme broadcast more
than 6750 times; A TV campaign through close to sixty broadcasts of spots and production of
three documentaries on AIDS control in companies, AIDS control by religious denominations
and the management of PLWHA; A press campaign written with the insertion of 126 messages in
15 national newspapers which was rounded off in October 2002 with the publication of the "letter
from a big brother"; A public posting campaign with 100 road posters measuring 4 X 3 m and
2000 posters stuck up everywhere.
 the "AIDS-free Holidays" campaign of the CTG/NACC editions 2001 through 2006. The
objective of this campaign was to raise awareness and to reduce HIV/AIDS infection among at
least 120.000 school children, university students and youth during holidays.
 the "No AIDS 2004" campaign caravan co-financed by the PAF and the World Bank was a
success and enabled the information and sensitizing of almost 9000 young pupils and students
from 35 schools in 14 towns and 7 provinces. It was particularly appreciated by youth thanks to
concerts, in particular rap music and sketches presented by associations of youths living or not
with VIH.
 the 2005 multi-media "Pinch-unroll" campaign of the Cameroonian Association for Social
Marketing (ACMS) was put in place based on the results of a study carried out on 622 persons,
following complaints made about condoms which frequently get torn. This study showed that
although 7 surveyed out of 10 declared that they knew how to properly use the condom, their
aptitude to correctly describe how to use a condom is definitely lower.
 Awareness raising by community radios (NACC/UNESCO/UNICEF/UNAIDS): this translates
the importance of proximity communication through the setting up and provision of support to
private FM radio stations and provincial CRTV stations: to convey messages in several local
languages; transmit messages adapted to the various cultural contexts and the various local
problems; obtain feedback from the populations concerned; allow the production of programmes
with questions to specialists, testimonies; enable a proper targeting of messages etc. This
awareness programme by community radios was the subject of a partnership agreement signed
between community radios, UNESCO, UNICEF, the Coca-Cola Foundation and NACC.
 brochures titled "the snail and dino" by CTG/NACC; "AIDS declared nonstarter" by PMUC and
"letter from big brother" by the Minister for Public Health at the start of new school year
campaigns. NACC developed and distributed a brochure titled "the snail and dino" which is based
on the comparison between the snail which can get back into its shell when the air is too
dry and come out once the rains return, and the dinosaur which disappeared because it did not
know how to adapt.
 the "Cross-Generational Sex" campaign by ACMS/NACC/GTZ/USAID. This initiative stems
from the results of the DHS 2004 which revealed that girls between 15-19 years and 20-24 years
have a higher HIV prevalence rate than boys of the same age, 2.2% and 7.9% compared with
0.6% and 2.5% respectively. The hypothesis was thus put forth that they were infected by older
men with whom they have more or less regular sexual intercourse. This cross-generational
sexuality is an old practice in Cameroon, but it was in exchange for money and worsened because
of poverty.



                                                 35

4. Strengths and weaknesses of CBC
Strengths
1. Multiplicity of promising initiatives as regards multimedia campaigns and the quality of tools
developed and broadcast
2. Effort of creativity, innovation and targeting in the contents of messages and choice of aids
3. Express will to use all opportunities to develop CBC actions during major gatherings or
assemblies of populations (youth festivals or shows, traditional festivals, sports tournaments,
celebration of world days, etc)
4. Collaboration between some partners for the production and dissemination of awareness tools
5. Involvement of the private sector in awareness campaigns.

Weaknesses
1. Absence of national CBC strategy document until June 2004 to support the other NACP
activities
2. CBC strategies contained in the document validated in June 2004 were ill adapted, and do not
take into account media and socio-cultural opportunities of the Cameroonian context
3. Insufficient situation analysis as regards predominant behaviour among high-risk target groups
4. Failure to take into account ongoing actions and research results at the level of the other
communication partners
5. Intensification of CBC activities in the urban environment to the detriment of rural areas
6. Relative ignorance in the communication strategy of the predominant role played at community
level by the traditional chieftainships and under-utilization of the potential offered by the wealth
of associations
7. Inexistence, until 2005, of monitoring and evaluation indicators of CBC activities
8. Insufficient information management attributable to the inexistence of progress reports on CBC
activities in the provinces

II-5. Administrative and Financial Management

The Multi-sector AIDS Control Programme (MAP) was financed by the World Bank to the tune
of 50 million dollars and counterpart funds of an estimated amount of 7.5 million dollars from the
State for the period from September 2001 to June 30 2007. In the project assessment document
(PAD), it was agreed that an adequate financial management system was to be set up with the
coming into force of the grant. A financial officer was to be recruited and accountancy was to be
subcontracted to a private specialized firm. To meet these requirements, an Administrative and
Financial Management Section was set up within the Programme under the authority of a Section
Head and an accounting and financial assistance firm was recruited by mutual agreement by the
World Bank. During the execution of the Project, the missions of this Firm were reinforced to
control financial management at the level of Provincial Technical Groups, thus the Firm became
administrator in the Provincial Technical Groups. The financial management of the Programme
was decentralized according to the organization of control activities in the field. Each Provincial
Technical group had autonomy of management over the annual budgets validated by the NACC
and approved by IDA The accounts of the Programme were opened and managed by the National
Sinking Fund in mutual agreement between the Cameroonian Government and IDA/World Bank.
An accounting, administrative and financial procedures manual was put in place and approved by
IDA at the start of the Project. MAP set up a disbursement mechanism enabling it to ensure fluid
and speedy transfer of funds from the central level (CAA) to the decentralized level. Bank
accounts were opened and managed by the National Sinking Fund (CAA) for the management of
project funds.
The rate of grant disbursement as of 30/06/2007 stands at 97% and taking into account the last
commitments already concluded, it will stand at nearly 100%. The Project had problems with


                                                  36

mobilizing counterpart funds. Such that on August 26 2005, the World Bank and the Government
of Cameroon signed an amendment to Grant arrangements of 100% funding by IDA of all
expenditure of the Project.

Strengths and weaknesses of the administrative and financial management

Strengths
1. setting up an accounting office
2. putting in place and application of the Manual of administrative, accounting and financial
Procedures
3. existence of budgetary norms
4. preparation of detailed annual budgetary estimates and budgets by the project
5. execution of financial supervision missions to detect and correct dysfunctions
6. production of financial and accounting statements
7. production of management reports
8. strengthening of the powers of the Accounting firm at the level of PTG (joint management
powers) with financial responsibility since 2004
9. development by the project of its own FRR
10. regular drawing up according to periods of FRR by the AFS/FAU with the support of the
National Sinking Fund
11. high level of disbursement.

Weaknesses
1. at the level of PTGs, the coordinators who are for the most part doctors have not always been
trained in financial management and in World Bank disbursement procedures
2. the firm put in place did not master the financial and accounting management of projects in
particular new tools such as Financial Monitoring Reports, follow up of fund reimbursement
requests (FRR) and expenditure by financial categories. Consequently, the project operated
according to treasury accounting and not commitment rules, hence the real problem of following
up commitments, and the cost overruns recorded in some expenditure
3. the application of internal control proved inadequate in Provincial Technical Groups for want
of capacity building for its officials
4. the TOMPRO software module put in place was not used in all the human resources
management modules of the Project.

III. Impact of IDA/WORLD BANK Procedures on the Implementation of the
Project

It was observed all along the implementation of MAP that World Bank Task Team leaders played
a predominant role in the setting of priorities and strategies. MAP 1 was a typical example of a
project whose true leadership was external to the country and ensured by the World Bank TTL.
This lop-sided nature of decision taking power impacted negatively on the overall performance of
the project.

1. Choice of ill-adapted strategies of implementation of local and sector responses
The aide-memoire of the World Bank supervision mission from 2 to 9 February 2003 stipulates:
"Each Grassroots Community (GC) is eligible to a grant on an indicative base of FCFA 1000 per
member, with an average of FCFA 1000 000 per year, a maximum of FCFA 1500 000. A GC is
understood to mean a village/neighbourhood of 1000 persons on the average or legally registered
organizations, organizations of members carrying out activities at the service of their members,



                                                 37

non profit making, parish associations, trade unions, associations of company employees,
associations of prisoners, parent teacher associations, soldiers in barracks, HC, small PLWHA
associations." "Big Communities (BC) are associations which serve more members and
organizations which work with orphans, widows of PLWHA. Each PTG can fund some BC per
year (maximum 30) and the amounts will vary from FCFA 7 000 000 to FCFA 10 000 000. The
contribution stands at 50% per enterprise, 50% maximum by NACC in the form of grants. In the
case of other Big Communities, the contribution of the BC shall be at least 15% by the BC and
85% in the form of grants for sub-projects by NACC. In the case of a BC with a broad impact, the
maximum amount of the grant as representing CAP can go up to FCFA 25 000 000 per year, still
in supplement to a contribution of the enterprise as defined in the handbook of procedures (50%
of the total cost)." These clear guidelines of the World Bank mission show that funding was not
done on the basis of activities to be carried out, but on the number of individuals living in an area
and often without any established solidarity basis. This approach became a source of confusion in
the field for it was difficult to determine members of a local committee. The choice of old and
experienced organizations would have been a better option.

2. Choice of process and not outcome indicators
The aide-memoire of the World Bank supervision mission from 22 April to 1 May 2003
stipulates: "Follow-up of major indicators:
    -   Number of Grassroots Community having received payment of the first installment for
        the first year
    -   Number of Grassroots Community having received payment of the second installment for
        the first year
    -   Number of Grassroots Community having received payment of the first installment for
        the second year
    -   Number of Grassroots Community having received payment of the second installment for
        the second year;
    -   Number of OAP contracts under execution;
    -   Number of communities prepared with the support of these OPA;
    -   Number of Big Community having received payment of first installment;
    -   Number of Big Community having received payment of second installment;
    -   Amount disbursed on category A."
These indicators must be preceded by estimates (number planned), and was collected quarterly in
collaboration with M&E and financial services (FAMU, FAS, Firm)". It is obvious that for TTL,
what mattered most was the disbursement of funds and not the outcomes of use of these funds in
the field. At the end of the project, there were surprisingly no statistics on the concrete
achievements of the various actors having been funded. The unilateral nature of the choices made
by the bank did not make it possible to have outcome indicators with respect to the services
provided to the population.

3. The pernicious effects of the prior "non objections" of TTL
The implementation of yearly action plans needs a formal and written "non objection" of the Task
Team Leader. This provision made him the real leader in the implementation of the programme.
All activities depended on his availability and that of his colleagues tasked with examining the
budgetary estimates or the procurement plan.

For all these reasons, the annual action plans of CTG/NACC were always approved after the
month of March delaying their implementation for at least three months. These "non objection"
power wielded by TTL did not allow CTG/NACC to acquire female condoms in spite of their
planned procurement since 2003. It was suggested that they should be procured by ACMS, which



                                                  38

is an NGO, then by a United Nations agency etc. All these guidelines, falling under the remit of
the TTL alone, always ended in impasse.

Conclusion

The IDA 3454 grant made it possible for the first time to scale up HIV/AIDS control in
Cameroon. This funding allowed for the operationalization of the multisector approach to
HIV/AIDS control and enabled thousands of communities in the rural and urban areas to become
aware of the dangers of HIV/AIDS. Prepared as a matter of emergency, MAP 1 made use of the
principle of "learning by doing" for its implementation. This special context should not be
forgotten at the time of evaluating the programme. Several activities carried out cannot be
highlighted on account of the absence of relevant monitoring indicators and of a potent
monitoring and evaluation system. The following actions, however, stood out as best practices
within the framework of MAP 1:
    -   Contracting of service provision: (for instance, condom distribution) with local NGOs
        and associations of PLWHA who played a vital role in the psychological support of
        infected and affected persons and nutritional support.
    -   De-stigmatisation of the disease marked by open testimonies and increased demand for
        voluntary counselling and testing services by community members.
    -   The involvement of leaders of certain communities in the dissemination of HIV and
        AIDS control messages.
    -   The effective involvement of community radio stations in the spread of HIV and AIDS
        messages.
    -   Ownership of the control effort by community members and a greater solidarity among
        infected and affected persons through the setting up of solidarity funds in some
        communities.
    -   Public/private sector partnership was an entry point for local neighbouring communities
        to prevention, care and treatment services.
    -   The organization of anonymous and voluntary testing campaigns for all staff followed by
        the case management of sick workers, as was the case with the ALUCAM and
        HEVECAM ATC.
    -   Maintaining HIV-positive workers in activity in companies contributed to encouraging
        workers to freely access voluntary counselling and testing.
    -   The availability of condoms in customers' rooms in hotels (IBIS Hotel, SAWA Hotel, for
        instance).
    -   The facilitation of sharing of experiences and good practices through the pooling of
        efforts by means of networks and coalitions of companies such as the Plateforme de
        Coordination Groupes d'Entrepises (PCGE)  [Platform of Coordination of Groups of
        Companies] (Alucam, Brasseries du Cameroun, Camrail, CFAO, Cimencam) are good
        examples.
    -   The execution of special awareness campaigns during major social events likely to
        mobilize a great number of persons (Youth Day, International Women's Day, National
        Day, etc.) with the use of mobile units for general public testing.
    -   Awareness campaigns among students and pupils during holidays referred to as "AIDS-
        free Holidays" with the use of mobile units for testing youths.
    -   Information and awareness campaign on HIV/AIDS for students (in secondary and high
        schools) christened Caravane No Sida [No AIDS Caravan]. Here, awareness messages
        were carried through music shows, poems and sketches.
    -   Popularization of the male condom thanks to the multimedia "Pinch, Unroll" campaign.
        The aim here is to help the population use the condom correctly.



                                                39

     -   Support by NACC to relevant communication activities by the civil society (stage arts,
         books on AIDS, etc.). The objective here is to encourage Cameroonians engaged in AIDS
         control.
     -   The insertion of HIV/AIDS control messages in some widely distributed industrial
         products (school exercise books for youths, match boxes for families and households).

It is therefore crucial that these activities should continue within the framework of MAP II, with
lessons drawn from the experience of MAP I. This MAP II should be prepared in the spirit of the
Paris declaration, namely: Ownership, alignment, harmonization, results-based management, and
mutual accountability.




                                                   40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Several development partners (multi and bilateral agencies) actively collaborated with the project.
This Annex presents the views of UNAIDS, UNESCO, UNICEF, UNDP and French Cooperation.

UNAIDS. The UNAIDS representative emphasized the importance of implementing the "three
ones"approach, namely that in Cameroon there must be a common HIV/AIDS strategy, common
leadership and a uniform monitoring and evaluation (M&E system. UNAIDS has financed the
elaboration of a sound M&E manual and consultant support. She also emphasized on the need for
establishing a more dynamic collaboration among development partners. In view of the
preparation of a follow-up operation of MAP project and subsequent rounds of Global fund, a
Memorandum of understanding was prepared. This MOU pointed out six directions to be
developed for the future:
     (a) The ownership of the fight by all the stakeholders;
     (b) The implementation of harmonized and alignment procedures on government's priorities;
     (c) To have regular consultation and discussion among development partners;
     (d) To put in place a common Monitoring and Evaluation system
     (e) To regularly share with all stakeholders and development partners project's objectives
         and annual work plans;
     (f) To put in place a functional mechanism to share/disseminate information

UNESCO: UNESCO has been very instrumental in the fight against HIV/AIDS in Cameroon.
The UNESCO representative has been the chair person of the technical and financial
development partners group involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS in Cameroon. UNESCO also
contributed actively to develop and insert in school curricula, modules to inform and promote
behavioral change at the level of primary and secondary education in Cameroun. While regretting
the fact that this orientation was not strongly developed within the MAP, they express the need to
have future operations to emphasize on prevention in school through curriculum development.

UNICEF: UNICEF has actively promoted the prevention of mother to child transmission
(PMCT) of the virus, as well as the provision of special medication and nutrition programs for
infected or affected children through collaboration with CNLS. Although congratulation CNLS
for its achievements in the domain of PMCT, UNICEF was dissatisfied with the amount of
resources and attention set aside for PMCT program. UNICEF closely collaborated with the
World Bank and UNAIDS and fully support the "three ones"approach in Cameroon.

UNDP: UNDP has been actively supporting the development of a strategic plan for 2006-2010 in
Cameroon, as well as conducting studies to help improve the implementation of the whole
HIV/AIDS program in Cameroon. Among the studies conducted, "resource mobilization and
utilization for the fight against HIV/AIDS within sector ministries" was one of their major
concerns. The study revealed that following Prime Minister's 2004 order to provision resources in
various ministries' budget for the fight against HIV/AIDS, though the resources were mobilized,
a very limited amount was effectively used for this purpose. The study strongly recommended
that in the future the national committee be informed on the resources mobilized and annual work
plans of various ministries, in order to ensure appropriate coordination of activities.

French Cooperation: They were actively involved in voluntary counseling and testing. Their
main complaint for the project has been the need to share information and set up a sound
monitoring and evaluation system to improve data reliability.




                                                 41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. World Bank: Project Appraisal Document on Cameroon Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
     Project

  2. World Bank: Development Credit Agreement on Cameroon Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
     Project

  3. World Bank: Supervision Mission Aide-Memoires 1-16. World Bank Files, 2001-2007

  4. World Bank: Implementation Status Reports 1-16. World Bank Files, 2001-2007




                                         42

