Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17038
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3265-CHA/CREDIT 2182-CHA)
August 26, 1997
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1990               $1=Y4.78
1991                $1 = Y 5.32
1992                $1 = Y 5.42
1993                $1 = Y 5.73
1994               $1 = Y 8.50
1995                $1=Y8.40
1996               $1 = Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)  15 mu
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC      -  Agricultural Bank of China
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
ADBC    -  Agricultural Development Bank of China
BOC      -  Bank of China
EDI      -  Economic Development Institute
ERR      -  Economic Rate of Return
FIL      -  Financial Intermediary Loan
FRR      -  Financial Rate of Return
FSTAP   -  Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
IBRD     -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA      -  International Development Association
IFAD     -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LIB      -  Limited International Bidding
MOA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
NCB      -  National Competitive Bidding
NGO      -  Nongovernmental Organization
PBC      -  People's Bank of China
RCC      -  Rural Credit Cooperative
RC I     -  Rural Credit I Project (CR 1462-CHA)
RC II    -  Rural Credit II Project (CR 1642-CHA)
RC III   -  Rural Credit III Project (CR 1871-CHA)
RC IV    -. Rural Credit IV Project (LN 3265/CR 2182-CHA)
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
TA       -  Technical Assistance
TEG      -  Technical Expert Group
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Manager           Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Staff Member      Ramesh Deshpande, Principal Financial Operations Officer, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
A. Project Background .........................................................
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  ... 13
D. Project Sustainability .......................................................                       16
E. Bank Performance                          ................................................... 16
F. Borrower (MOF) and Beneficiary (ABC) Performance                                        ..  16
G. Assessment of Outcome .......................................................                        17
H. Future Operation .......................................................                             18
I. Key Lessons Learned .......................................................                          19
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .......................................................                              21
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .......................................................                   21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................................                 22
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................................                      22
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ......... 23
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................... 24
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations ............................................. 25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .......................................................              25
Table 8a: Project Costs .......................................................                         26
Table 8b: Project Costs .......................................................                         26
Table 8c: Project Financing .......................................................                     27
Table 9: Economic Costs and BenefitsZa ....................................................... 27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .......................................................               28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................... 32
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................... 32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .......................................................                  33
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ........................... 35
ANNEX  B: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE  MEMOIRE                                           ....................................... 45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3265-CHA/CREDIT 2182-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Rural Credit
Project in China, for which Loan 3265-CHA in the amount of $75 million equivalent and
Credit 2182-CHA in the amount of SDR 143.7 million ($200 million equivalent) were
approved on October 30, 1990 and made effective on March 22, 1991. The loan and
credit were closed on December 31, 1996. These were fully disbursed; and the last
disbursement took place on February 5, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Ramesh Deshpande, Principal Financial Operations
Officer, Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division, Country Department III, Europe and
Central Asia Region, with the assistance of Kay Hill and Weiguo Zhou (Consultants), and
reviewed by Messrs. Joseph Goldberg, Chief, EA2RS and Yo Kimura, Project Advisor,
EA2DR. The borrower provided comments that are included as an annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR, which began during the Bank's final supervision mission
in May 1996, was completed by an ICR mission that visited ABC headquarters and
selected provincial branches during March 1997. The ICR is based on materials in the
project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views
reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






- v -
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3265-CHA/CREDIT 2182-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Fourth Rural Credit Project (RCIV) was one of the first few operations,
Bankwide, which the Bank processed using guidelines contained in Operational Directive
8.30. The project was designed in the context of the Bank's ongoing dialogue on
financial sector issues, and on the understanding that the Chinese authorities would be
prepared to implement various policy reforms and institutional changes supported by the
project. At the time of RCIV's appraisal, there was considerable uncertainty over the
pace and direction of China's financial sector reforms. The financial sector, as others,
was caught in a problematic situation, where it was given substantial responsibility for
allocation of China's investible resources but its decisions had continued to be subject to
heavy intervention by government at all levels. The Bank Group's financial sector
review,' which was then under discussion with the government, had recommended the
introduction of a range of reforms to enable banks to become full financial intermediaries,
including enactment of a comprehensive banking law; strengthening of bank
management; competition among and a mix of financial intermediaries; and further
rationalization of monetary, credit and interest rate policies.
Project Objectives
2.    Against this background, RCIV's main objectives were to:
(a)   stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by financing profitable
investments by farmers, collectives, state farms, and enterprises; and
(b)   promote efficiency of rural financial intermediation through introduction
of sound, market-oriented, policies and development of main institutions
concerned with rural savings mobilization and lending.
3.    The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) used the Bank Group funds along with its
own funds to provide subloans to expand production and improve productivity of
commercial agriculture including crops, livestock, fisheries, agroprocessing, and
The World Bank, "China: Financial Sector Review: Financial Policy and Institutional Reforms,"
Report No. 8415-CHA dated June 29, 1990.



- vi -
marketing facilities in seven regional clusters, including Inner Mongolia, five provinces
of Shaanxi in the northwest; Jilin and Liaoning in the northeast, Jiangxi and Guangdong
in central and south China, and Beijing municipality. ABC also used a part of the Bank
Group assistance in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and three provinces of Fujian,
Hunan and Hubei, which were covered by earlier IDA-assisted credit projects. Given the
line-of-credit nature of the project, ABC had the flexibility of adjusting the lending
program in response to a changing macroeconomic environment and subproject
appraisals including market and credit risk analysis.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Project Objectives. The project's first objective of stimulating
growth and diversification of agriculture was substantially achieved through provision of
credit (investment funds and incremental working capital) for commercially viable
production and productivity improvements in agriculture and agroprocessing, with
emphasis on environmental protection and poverty alleviation. Most of the subprojects
are expected to achieve their production targets, but a small number (6 percent), accounting
for 16 percent of subloans disbursed, are considered problem projects and have the potential
to threaten the viability of the project, if not corrected. The project's second objective of
promoting efficiency of rural financial intermediation was, however, only partially
achieved because some of the core features of the project designed to accelerate ABC's
commercialization were either not implemented or only partially implemented. These
included elimination of subsidies on onlending of Bank/IDA funds from MOF to ABC
and ensuring minimum interest spreads to ABC and the Rural Credit Cooperatives
(RCC). In retrospect, the financial sector objective of the project may have been too
ambitious, as it did not fit with the government's phased approach to sector reform and
many of the proposed activities were outside the control of ABC.
5.    Banking Reforms. During the course of RCIV's implementation, as part of
broader financial sector reforms, the government took important steps toward the
project's objective of promoting efficiency of rural financial intermediation and
introduced important policy and institutional changes. In 1993, ABC was split into two
institutions: (a) the existing ABC retaining its commercial banking functions; and (b) the
newly established "policy" bank, the Agricultural Development Bank of China (ADBC)
assuming government business including subsidized credits for grain procurement and
poverty alleviation. Subsequently, in 1996, the government also separated the grassroots
RCC system from ABC supervision, to function independently under a newly created
organization which is currently under the State Council but is expected to become a RCC
federation. These initiatives were indeed consistent with the Bank's recommendations
for financial sector reform and RCIV's objective of promoting efficiency of rural
financial intermediation.



- vii -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    The project outcome is viewed as unsatisfactory on the basis that it at best only
partially achieved its sector policy and institutional development objectives and its level of
achievement of the financial objectives was negligible. One could ask how an institution
that had satisfactorily implemented three previous projects could perform poorly on the
fourth. Also, it is unusual to rate a project with an estimated ERR of 24 percent as
unsatisfactory. But RCIV had higher aims than the earlier projects, extending into the
overall operations of ABC and even into the government's financial sector development
strategy. The same project in today's financial sector environment would have a much
greater chance of achieving its objectives.
7.    A study of rural investment and finance, which had been intended to support sector
development, was reduced in scope and intended consultations with the Bank on a general
interest rate structure were not carried out as a result of the split of ABC and the overlap
with a subsequent Bank-assisted Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTAP),
which focused on reforms applicable to all financial institutions. The financial objectives
that the project had envisaged-elimination of subsidized credit, a more rational interest
rate structure for the project and for ABC as a whole, and adjustment of the provision for
bad debts to levels more realistic and in line with international practice-were not
implemented within the time frame of project implementation. It is unclear why MOF
provided subsidized credit to ABC, but the interest rate structure and provisioning are issues
still unresolved for the sector and still being addressed by the Bank and government.
8.    The main objectives of the institutional development programs were to upgrade
ABC's financial management. A financial management symposium, intended for ABC and
PBC participation, to discuss ABC's long-range business planning, credit plan formulation
and lending policies was not held because both ABC and the Bank decided this could be
better handled by the FSTAP. Some studies were carried out and reviewed by the Bank, but
not pursued further in light of the impending hiving off of policy lending and RCC
oversight.
9.    The project's sustainability is uncertain; the real sector benefits are likely to be
substantial, but ABC's sustainability and its continued profitability will be somewhat
contingent on the financial reform process. The pace of commercialization of all the
formerly specialized banks will to a large extent be influenced by state enterprise reforms,
since the financial health of one affects the financial health of the other.
10.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory, with the exception that it overestimated
the scope for certain elements of the financial sector reform program during project
preparation, ABC believes that the Bank did not effectively listen to its concerns during
appraisal and negotiations about the difficulty of implementing the financial sector
reform program, and the Bank did not give enough attention to the institutional
development and financial sector objectives during supervision. The Borrower (the
Ministry of Finance, MOF) and the Beneficiary (ABC) did not comply with one of



- viii -
RCIV's core covenants, namely, the elimination of subsidized interest rates on Bank
Group funds to ABC. Also, despite considerable technical assistance provided by the
Bank Group (RCI to IV) and other donors, ABC's loan portfolio management
performance remained at a relatively low level. ABC, as a rule, should not administer
foreign-funded project-type lending such as RCIV through international or other
noncredit departments but integrate such lending with its mainstream credit departments
to improve the project's institutional development impact, efficiency of resource
planning, portfolio management, and quality of financial services provided to clients.
The Borrower (MOF) should have placed greater emphasis on introducing sustainable
banking practices in agricultural lending by allowing ABC to (a) retain minimum interest
spreads on subloans assisted by the project, and (b) make adequate provisions for
nonperforming subloans. These issues must be addressed by the government and the
People's Bank of China (PBC) through ongoing banking reforms and possible future
Bank-assisted operations with ABC and other financial institutions.
11.   The major lessons learned are (1) there is a fairly narrow limit as to how far an FIL
for one banking institution can go in achieving reform objectives for the whole financial
sector; (2) when financial sector objectives are introduced into an FIL, all stakeholders must
be explicitly involved and exhibit ownership of and commitment to the project objectives;
(3) the Bank and Borrower should only develop projects for which there is a strong
consensus and common understanding about the main objective of the project, particularly
in a complex and sensitive policy area such as financial sector reform; and (4) projects must
be kept simple enough that both Bank and implementing agency resources are not stretched
beyond capacity to supervise implementation.



- 1 -
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3265-CHA/CREDIT 2182-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) was reestablished in 1979 to take over
rural banking functions of the People's Bank of China (PBC). This was the first major
initiative the government took to begin restructuring of the country's monobank system,
which was established in 1950 to serve specific needs of a centrally planned economy.
Tlhe Bank Group started working with ABC in 1981. In 1990, when the Fourth Rural
Credit Project (RCIV) was approved for Bank Group assistance, ABC had successfully
implemented two IDA-assisted rural credit projects in three provinces (RCI, FY84, $50
million; and RCII, FY86, $90 million), while the third project (RCIII, FY88, $170
million) was under implementation. RCI to III were generally well implemented with
partial or substantial achievement of development objectives, satisfactory borrower
performance, likely sustainability and satisfactory outcomes. However, they had focused
narrowly on strengthening ABC's capacity for investment appraisal and, considering the
overall pace of financial sector development, did not address its broader institutional
requirements.
2.    RCIV was one of the first few operations Bankwide, which the Bank processed
using guidelines contained in Operational Directive 8.30. The project was designed in
the context of the Bank's ongoing dialogue on financial sector issues, and on the
understanding that the Chinese authorities would be prepared to implement various policy
reforms and institutional changes supported by the project. At the time of RCIV's
appraisal, there was considerable uncertainty over the pace and direction of China's
financial sector reforms. The financial sector, as others, was caught in a problematic
situation, where it was given substantial responsibility for allocation of China's investible
resources but its decisions had continued to be subject to heavy intervention by
government at all levels. The Bank Group's financial sector review,' which was then
under discussion with the government, had recommended the introduction of a range of
reforms to enable banks to become full financial intermediaries, including enactment of a
comprehensive banking law; strengthening of bank management; competition among and
1  The World Bank, "China: Financial Sector Review: Financial Policy and Institutional Reforms,"
Report No. 8415-CHA dated June 29, 1990.



-2 -
a mix of financial intermediaries; and further rationalization of monetary, credit and
interest rate policies.
3.    The Bank processed RCIV on the basis that there must be an understanding with
the government on the financial sector development strategy, and that it (RCIV) should
not only address interest rate issues related to the project per se, but also to the reform of
the overall interest rate structure (administered by PBC), which should, inter alia, provide
for more automatic interest rate adjustment mechanisms.
4.    In support of this approach, the Bank kept RCIV negotiations on hold for over six
months until after it received a positive response from the government to the
recommendations of the Bank's financial sector review.2 During RCIV negotiations, the
government agreed to carry out RCIV's mid-terrn review, to enable the Bank to discuss
with Chinese authorities the progress in implementing not only the project and ABC's
institutional development objective, but also overall financial sector reform. Specifically,
RCIV required the government to take measures to:
3  eliminate subsidies on Bank Group funds onlent by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) to ABC;
*  provide minimum interest rate spreads to ABC;
*  establish an appropriate recapitalization plan for ABC; and
*  strengthen ABC's financial management and credit policies.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overview
5.    The project's first objective of stimulating growth and diversification of
agriculture was substantially achieved through the provision of credit (investment funds
and incremental working capital) for commercially viable production and productivity
improvements in crops, livestock, aquaculture, and agroprocessing with emphasis on
environmental protection, poverty alleviation, and market development. Most of the
subprojects are expected to achieve their production targets, but a small number (6
percent), accounting for 16 percent of subloans disbursed, are considered problem
projects and have the potential to threaten the viability of the project, if not corrected.
The project's second objective of promoting efficiency of rural financial intermediation
was, however, only partially achieved. In retrospect, the financial sector objective of the
project may have been too ambitious, as it did not fit with the government's phased
approach to sector reform and many of the proposed activities were outside the control of
ABC.
2  Ibid.



6.    RCIV's performance with reference to key elements of the above two main
objectives was as follows.
Agricultural Growth and Diversification
7.    Subloans. During the project period (1991-96),3 ABC financed 1,780 subprojects
involving a total investment of about Y 4 billion ($648 million equivalent) and a lending
program of about Y 2.5 billion ($386.8 million equivalent), which in local currency was
higher by about 53 percent than the appraisal estimate of Y 1.8 billion. The increase in
the lending program was mainly due to the cost escalation contributed by high rates of
inflation during 1993-96 and the devaluation of the yuan.4 Subborrowers' contribution
turned out to be much higher than 30 percent of the project cost, at about $261 million
compared to the appraisal estimate of $164 million. ABC provided about 17 percent of
the total project cost from its own funds. The project supported term transformation of
ABC's predominantly short-term  resources.  ABC  could also roll over subloan
repayments to improve its profitability.
8.    In most of the project provinces, RCIV-assisted loan portfolio was largely in line
with the appraisal estimates (Part II, Tables 8A and 8B.); however, overall, the proportion
of agroprocessing investments was larger at 53 percent compared to 31 percent expected
at appraisal. ABC also financed construction and upgrading of 23 primary and wholesale
markets, which activity was added to the project after the Bank Group appraisal. Given
the line-of-credit nature of the project, such adjustments in the lending program were
expected; in fact, ABC branches which did not adequately respond to the changing
economic environment had a greater incidence of failed or problem subprojects. By
ownership, about 42 percent of subloans went to state farms and state-owned enterprises
(Y 1,057 million); 40 percent to collectives (Y 1,007 million); and 18 percent to
specialized households, individuals and joint ventures (Y 480 million). Lending in
poverty counties amounted to about 22 percent of total.
9.    Realizing the problems with project implementation at the grassroots, within
about a year from RCIV commencement (March 1991), ABC developed an action plan
and guidelines for subproject management and appraisal, including types of subloans
eligible for financing, determination of loan repayment terms and interest rates, and
outlining corrective measures that must be taken for subloans that did not comply with
the project's procurement and environmental guidelines.
3   The project's closing date was extended by one year from December 31, 1995 to December 31, 1996
to enable ABC subborrowers to complete outstanding procurement actions under approved subloans,
and prepare pilot business plans in two provinces as part of the preparation of the proposed ABC
Commercialization project.
4   The exchange rate at appraisal was at $1: Y 4.7, which changed as follows: 1991, Y 5.7; 1994, Y 8.7;
and 1996, Y 8.3.



- 4 -
10.   RCIV introduced new initiatives to improve ABC's subloan approval processes
by establishing a nongovernmental Technical Expert Group (TEG) at ABC headquarters,
and private consultant rosters at provincial branches to advise subborrowers; and to assist
ABC in supervising compliance with technical aspects of the subprojects; developing
technical guidelines for investment appraisal in major subsectors; and introducing
enterprise appraisal as a criterion for subloan approval. These aspects have become an
important part of ABC's credit appraisal process, both in project and nonproject lending,
and are being extended to provinces that did not have an opportunity to participate in
Bank Group-assisted projects. ABC recognizes this as one of RCIV's most important
elements in contributing to its ongoing commercialization.
11.   Subproject Performance.  The ICR mission briefly assessed virtually all
subprojects of which about 100 were reviewed in detail. This review indicates that with
the improvement in ABC's portfolio management capabilities through RCI to III, the
majority of RCIV-assisted subprojects, about 94 percent, are performing satisfactorily
and are expected to reach their production and productivity improvement goals
anticipated at appraisal. These investments were of a commercial nature based on
recognized local competitive advantage, and were broadly consistent with sector
strategies pursued by the government and assisted by the Bank Group.
12.   Subloan Repayments. As per ABC calculations, as of December 31, 1996,
subloans amounting to Y 217 million ($26 million equivalent) or 11 percent of the total
outstanding subloans at Y 2.1 billion ($247.8 million) were overdue (or nonperforming),
while interest due but remaining uncollected amounted to Y 54 million ($6.4 million
equivalent). Subloans amounting to Y 17.3 million ($2.1 million) were classified as
"bad." The overdue subloans at the regional level range from 3 percent in Hubei to 21
percent of outstanding subloans in Guangdong. Besides Guangdong, the other branches
which had high levels of overdues included Beijing (15 percent); Liaoning, Jiangxi (11
percent) and Shaanxi (10 percent), reflecting the relatively high incidence of problem
subprojects in these regions. Repayment periods for subloans set by ABC branches
generally tended to be shorter than warranted by subprojects' cash flows, possibly
because the branches hoped to accelerate the rollover of Bank Group funds, to enhance
development impact of foreign funds and improve profitability on project operations. In
reality, however, ABC branches had to often extend grace periods for repayment of
principal, originally set at about one to two years, by a further two to three years due to
subborrowers' inability to repay their obligations on due dates. The branches also
routinely extended subloan grace periods to subborrowers even though they had the
capacity to repay, collecting only interest due for the year.
13.   This implicit rescheduling of subloans seemed to have encouraged subborrowers
to (a) possibly hide their financial problems for extended periods; and/or (b) use
repayments due to ABC as working capital or investment funds to expand their
businesses, without necessarily subjecting themselves to ABC's reappraisal of their
continued credit eligibility. For most of these subloans, ABC would be eventually
required to extend originally-set subloan maturities. The branches' prevailing practice of



- 5 -
extending subloan grace periods, besides significantly weakening portfolio management,
has indeed exposed ABC to increased credit risks and potential problems with its
repayment obligations to MOF under the project.
14.   ABC's classification of subprojects by their likely outcome shows that the
proportion of subloans involved in failed or problem subprojects in RCIV was significant,
at about 16 percent of the total subloans disbursed or Y 380 million ($45 million
equivalent). This could have serious implications for ABC's future profitability on
project lending, as well as its total operations if their problems are not addressed.5
15.   About 5.6 percent of the total investments (Y 221 million) in 27 subprojects
(including a group of several small subloans for citrus development in Guangdong) have
failed mainly because of natural disasters such as widespread floods and diseases
affecting shrimp, scallop and eel culture in Liaoning and Guangdong, and citrus planting
in Guangdong and Guangxi. A few (four) agroprocessing subprojects (Guangxi, Hunan
and Jilin) have failed due to lack of markets, use of low or inappropriate technology, and
poor financial management. ABC has started developing financial workouts with
subborrowers, and enforcing guarantees for subloans against failed investments.
16.   Besides failed investments, a number of subprojects (96) involving outstanding
subloans of about Y 246 million (a sizable 10 percent of the subloan disbursements), have
one or more problems-technical, financial, marketing and managerial-with potential to
delay or reduce financial returns on related investments and possibly turn some of the
problem subloans into bad debts. In terms of outstanding subloans, the problem
subprojects relate predominantly to agroprocessing (54 percent), followed by livestock
(27 percent), crops (8 percent), wholesale markets (6 percent) and aquaculture (5
percent). It is possible that the number and the amount of problem subloans could
increase as ABC branches' current reporting on problem subprojects is not
comprehensive and cover only those subprojects where the subborrowers have defaulted
in payment of interest and principal.
17.   Some of the subloans were clearly wrong decisions in terms of choice of
technology, market prospects, and subborrowers' management capabilities. Additionally,
some of the subprojects (mainly in the agroprocessing category) could not sustain
anticipated profitability in a difficult macroeconomic environment that prevailed during
the project period (1991-96), characterized by high rates of inflation and reduced access
to credit. Among factors that contributed to the subprojects' poor performance were, in
varying degrees, the following: (a) low profitability due to changes in relative prices of
5   At appraisal, annual write-offs of bad loans under the project were expected at about 1 percent of the
outstanding loans; this may turn out to be a reality over the remaining life of the portfolio. The
project had provided that ABC must receive a spread of at least 2.5 percent (after tax) so that it could
build up necessary provisions for bad debts (up to I percent of interest spread on project lending).
ABC, however, received a spread of less than 2.5 percent (subject to tax) and its bad debts
provisioning continued to be regulated by MOF as part of a sectorwide policy based on fiscal
considerations rather than the viability of the banking system.



-6 -
inputs and outputs; (b) low capacity utilization; (c) lack of markets and marketing
strategies; and (d) inadequate crop extension services, especially in remote/poverty areas.
While these problems fall mainly within the purview of subborrowers, ABC branches and
local governments' technical bureaus (which had sponsored the subprojects) should have
assisted subborrowers to address these problems systematically, through effective
extension services, supervision and monitoring and greater use of the TEG.
18.   Problems faced by subprojects undertaken by state-owned enterprises are more
acute as they lacked flexibility, resilience, and incentives for efficient management of
related investments. As reform of the state-owned enterprises has become China's
national priority for 1997 and beyond, ABC (especially at the provincial level) must use
its financial leverage to accelerate the reform of the state-owned enterprises that are its
clients, focusing first on those enterprises that have defaulted on the project-assisted
subloans. These enterprises have various options such as reorganization; mergers;
corporatization (shareholding arrangements); leasing; contract operations; sell-offs; and
bankruptcy. This process is critical if ABC is to reduce RCIV's potential subloan losses.
19.   Lending Through Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCC)s. Traditionally, ABC
provided credit to state farms, collectives and specialized households.  Individual
households (peasant farms), which generally dealt with local RCCs for securing short-
term production and farm improvement credit had practically no access to ABC. RCIV,
therefore, extended the pilot started by RCIII of providing Bank Group funds (up to $10
million) to eligible RCCs in six new project provinces to enable local branches to develop
operational strategies for RCCs' institutional development for microcredit operations.
After a slow start, ABC and participating RCCs successfully implemented this
component and gained valuable experience, even though RCC credit went largely to
specialized households. With the separation of RCCs from ABC, follow-up on the pilot
is expected to be continued by the new State Council organization for the RCC system.
20.   Financial and Economic Rates of Return. A review of financial and economic
analysis of some 40 representative subprojects indicated that rates of return on
investments in crops and aquaculture continue to be strong. Financial rates of return
(FRRs) and economic rates of return (ERRs) for livestock and agroprocessing would be
lower due to changes in cost-benefit parameters and market prospects caused mainly by
high rates of inflation during 1993-96 including adjustments introduced by the
government in basic construction material, energy and transportation prices. For the
project as whole, FRRs and ERRs would, however, be satisfactory at 22 and 24 percent,
2-3 percentage points lower compared to the appraisal estimates of 24 and 27 percent,



-7 -
respectively. It is assumed that there would be no returns on failed investments.6 The net
present value of the incremental production in crops, livestock and fisheries, together
with value added by agroprocessing and marketing services, amounted to approximately
$3.0 billion, as against the appraisal estimate of about $1.9 billion. The FRRs projected
at completion for livestock and agroprocessing investments are estimated to be lower by
8 and 9 percentage points relative to the appraisal estimate but still are at satisfactory
levels of 19 and 23 percent. The project benefits could, however, be enhanced if ABC
and subborrowers rehabilitate and restructure the problem subprojects.
Efficiency of Rural Financial Intermediation
21.    Financial Sector Development. As part of a broader financial sector reform,7 the
government took steps toward the project's objective to promote efficiency of rural
financial intermediation and introduced important policy and institutional changes with
regard to the rural financial system. ABC was split into two institutions: (a) the existing
ABC retaining its commercial banking functions; and (b) the newly established "policy"
bank, the Agricultural Development Bank of China (ADBC) assuming government
business including subsidized credits for grain procurement and poverty alleviation. In
1996, the government also separated the RCC system, which was then operating under
ABC's supervision, to function under a newly constituted organization under the State
Council, operating directly under the general supervision of PBC (the central bank).
Government initiatives to separate policy lending from ABC's commercial banking
activity and RCCs from ABC's oversight were indeed consistent with the Bank's
recommendations for financial sector reform, and RCIV's objective of promoting
efficiency of rural financial intermediation.
22.    As a result of these government decisions and the overlap with the Bank's
subsequent Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTAP, Cr. 2423-CHA) some
of the RCIV activities intended to support rural financial market development and
broader financial sector development were considerably reduced in scope. For example,
RCIV's mid-term review, which was intended to assess project implementation and the
6   The project's financial and economic rates of return at completion are based on recalculation of 40
representative investment models for principal subcomponents of crops, livestock, acquaculture,
agroprocessing, and markets. The weighted average of the relative rates of return, by category of
investments, were applied to the total investment cost of the project (including the cost of failed
investments at 6 percent of the total on which no benefits have been assumed). The project FRR and
ERR were lower compared to the appraisal estimate due to: (a) higher real prices of inputs and lower
real prices of some of the outputs; (b) reduced yields on some investments; (c) changes in the relative
shares of subcomponents in the investment program; and (d) increase in the standard conversion
factor from 0.86 to I following the adjustment of the exchange rate.
7   Significant legislation was passed in 1995-the Central Bank Law, the Commercial Banking Law, the
Negotiable Bills Law, the Insurance Law, and the Guarantee Law. The Central Bank Law provides
PBC with the powers to regulate and supervise the banking system; the Commercial Banking Law
stipulates capital adequacy, legal lending limits and insider trading, asset/liability management, and
provides for compensation to financial institutions for losses that may result from loans to special
projects at the behest of Government.



-8 -
progress in financial sector development, was confined to only those aspects specifically
affecting ABC and the financial sector review was left to be covered by the Bank Group's
general financial sector dialogue with the government in the context of the FSTAP.
Similarly, RCIV had proposed, a rural investment and finance study, under the leadership
of MOF, focusing on further market orientation of credit and interest rate policies and
introducing a competitive institutional base for rural finance, but the scope of this study
was necessarily reduced to focus mainly on ABC's difficulties in raising longer-term
resources for rural lending. Broad-based policy work in rural finance contemplated by
RCIV was not carried out pending emergence of a new institutional set up contemplated
for the financial sector. ABC, the newly established ADBC, and the State Council's
Coordinating Group for Rural Reform (which is now responsible for RCC development)
consider that the rationale for a broader rural financial sector review is now stronger than
before, and that the Bank and government should find ways to continue their support for
this activity.
23.   ABC's Financial Management. While RCIV was being prepared, the Bank's
financial sector operations including agricultural credit, had come under criticism: one
objection was that traditional credit projects provided credit for production objectives
rather than encouraging intermediation between savers and investors as an objective in its
own right. The other objections included the traditional credit project's indifference to
deposit mobilization, widespread use of subsidies, targeting without effect, and the use of
specialized and protected agencies. The use of low interest rates in many such projects
was seen as ineffective in reaching production and equity objectives and destructive in its
impact on financial systems. The situation in China was not different, exacerbated by
considerable uncertainty within China and within the Bank over the pace and direction of
the financial sector reforms. The Bank was, therefore, exploring what kind of process
credit operations in China should be trying to assist.
24.   RCIV  attempted to address the objective of upgrading ABC's financial
management. However, some of the core features of the project that were explicitly
designed to accelerate ABC's commercialization were either not implemented or only
partially implemented.  These included elimination of subsidies on onlending of
IDA/Bank funds from MOF to ABC; ensuring minimum interest spreads to ABC and
RCCs; and establishment of a recapitalization plan for ABC. However, the progress in
this regard suffered a great deal as some of the core covenants under RCIV were either
not implemented or the pace of implementation has been rather slow to have any
significant impact. The Bank's Financial Sector Review8 had noted that it was then not
feasible for China to replace the prevailing system of controlled interest rates by a system
based on market forces mainly because the government still continued to use credit plans
as a tool to influence the banking system's resource allocation across sectors and by types
of subborrowers, including the level and pattern of investments in the economy. Interest
8  The World Bank, "China: Financial Sector Review: Financial Policy and Institutional Reforms,"
Report No. 8415-CHA dated June 29, 1990.



- 9 -
rate liberalization per se would not have made much sense at the time unless the
government was prepared to rapidly reduce its role in credit planning and increase the use
of the interest rate as a tool in managing aggregate demand. This was expected to happen
gradually as financial reforms were adopted.
25.   Still within the bounds set by the Government's financial sector policy, RCIV
attempted to introduce a comprehensive framework for interest rates and interest spreads
that would have no element of subsidy and would help to ensure that ABC would remain
a profitable and viable institution. However, the impact of various financial covenants, as
they related to ABC, turned out to be far less than that expected at appraisal.
(a)   MOF Onlending to ABC. RCIV provided that (a) the MOF interest rate
on Bank Group funds onlent to ABC in local currency should not be lower
than the rate charged by PBC on ordinary long-term loans to other
specialized banks, so that no subsidies were provided to ABC in relation to
other specialized banks or sectors; and (b) the MOF rate on both IDA and
IBRD funds onlent to ABC in foreign currency should not be lower than
the rates charged by the Bank to the government on IBRD loans. This
covenant, which was intended to eliminate subsidies to ABC and
accelerate its commercialization, however, was not complied with. MOF
onlent Bank Group funds entirely in foreign exchange at 5.4 percent, the
weighted average cost of the IBRD/IDA blend. These funds should have
carried an interest rate equivalent to that charged on IBRD loans (in the
range of 7.2 to 7.5 percent); instead, ABC received an unintended subsidy
of about 2 percent on the amount of $275 million disbursed over a period
of six years. Surprisingly, the Government and ABC never sought Bank
concurrence to use lower-than-market rates for project-assisted subloans.
(b)   Interest Spread on Project Lending:  RCIV provided that ABC's
interest spread on project lending should not be less than 2.5 percent (after
payment of income and adjustment taxes to MOF) or such higher spread
as may be agreed between the government and the Bank in order to enable
ABC to fully cover its transaction costs and provide for possible bad debts
annually up to 1 percent of the outstanding subloans under the project.
ABC could have approached PBC to permit it to use flexible interest rates,
which was possible both under PBC's policy for foreign-funded loans and
project covenants; however, ABC did not do so as it feared that it would
face client resistance to charging interest rates higher than those prescribed
by PBC.
Throughout project implementation, as ABC applied PBC-prescribed rates
to project subloans, it was generally unable to earn the minimum spread of
2.5 percent (after tax). According to present calculations, ABC received a
spread of less than 2.5 percent (before tax) during 1991-94 and 1996; in



- 10-
1995, however the spread was higher at about 3.23 percent.9 On subloans
expressed in US dollars, which accounted for a very small part of the
RCIV's loan portfolio, ABC received a spread of about 2.2 percent (before
tax). ABC's view was that as it borrowed Bank Group funds entirely in
foreign exchange (US dollars) and used these funds to expand its foreign
exchange business, it earned profits that were sufficient to make good the
shortfall in interest spreads on local currency subloans under the project.
Perhaps, overall, ABC did earn additional margins that were sufficient to
make good the shortfall in interest spreads on project subloans. However,
if ABC had paid market rates on Bank Group funds borrowed in foreign
exchange, the potential for cross-subsidization of local currency subloans
would have been negligible. Moreover, RCIV had not contemplated
cross-subsidization of local currency subloans, given that ABC's foreign
exchange business had its own costs and risks, and that such cross-
subsidization would not have been helpful to establish a sustainable
lending program in the rural sector.
(c)   Positive Interest Rates on Project Lending. RCIV provided that ABC
should onlend project funds to subborrowers at least at the same interest
rates that it charges on subloans for similar purposes with similar
maturities outside the project; and that taking into account inflation in the
economy, interest rates paid by final beneficiaries on project subloans
would remain positive in real terms. However, during 1993-95, interest
rates especially on subloans with maturities up to five years prescribed by
PBC were generally negative. Since ABC was using PBC-prescribed
interest rates, the needed adjustment in interest rates was not made.
(d)   Interest Spread on ABC's Total Banking Business.  RCIV  had
stipulated that ABC's interest spread on total banking business (including
commercial and policy-based lending), should be adequate (after payment
of taxes) to maintain its overall financial viability and profitability, and to
enable ABC to make provisions for bad debts on the basis of criteria
acceptable to the Bank Group. During the project period, PBC continued
to administer interest rates that regulated ABC's interest spreads. ABC
remained profitable (according to its income statement based on Chinese
auditing principles) during the project period; however, its profits
continued to be subject to tax, and its bad debt provisioning was still
regulated by MOF guidelines.
(e)   ABC's Recapitalization. For ensuring ABC's overall financial viability,
RCIV included the following covenants: (a) ABC's equity should not be
9  The interest spreads were as follows: 1.35 percent in 1991; 2.19 percent in 1992; 1.75 percent in
1993; 2.36 percent in 1994; 3.23 percent in 1995; and 1.88 percent in 1996.



initially less than 5 percent of the risk assets; and (b) MOF and ABC
should develop a recapitalization plan for ABC, indicating the likely
mechanisms of equity replenishment. The goal was to raise in phases
ABC's risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio to 8 percent as per
international standards (Basle Committee recommendations). As ABC
was in the process of being split up and PBC began to pursue this aspect
for the banking system as a whole, ABC did not prepare the
recapitalization plan under RCIV.  However, since July 1994, all
commercial banks including ABC are required to provide to PBC for
review the information on capital adequacy ratio. Furthermore, both the
IMF and the Bank are of the view that recapitalization without first
addressing more fundamental issues is not a good strategy.
(f)   Portfolio Review. As part of RCIV preparation, ABC carried out a
comprehensive internal loan portfolio review and had agreed to update this
information annually for ABC as a whole and for the project provinces for
purposes of assessing ABC's overall subloan collection performance and
adequacy of interest spreads, bad debt provisions and capital. ABC's
initial proposals were that the responsibility for writing-off of accumulated
bad debts arising in respect of loans disbursed prior to the end of 1988
should be undertaken by the government, and for bad debts against loans
disbursed after that date by ABC. This approach was not pursued.
Instead, ABC continued to follow prevailing MOF rules by which ABC
anmually made incremental provisions for bad debts at the prescribed rate
of 0.08 percent of the outstanding loan amount. Clearly, this amount is
very low relative to the large volume of ABC's (or any other bank's)
nonperforming loans.  MOF's bad debt provisioning rules are not
consistent with international standards and are primarily governed by
fiscal considerations.
(g)   General Interest Rate Structure. While the level of interest rates,
especially of the lending rates, is gradually becoming an important tool for
managing aggregate demand, in recent years low and often negative rates
of interests have, inter alia, affected the efficiency of financial
intermediation, and encouraged relatively capital-intensive production in
enterprises that have access to credit. During RCIV negotiations, the Bank
had reached an understanding with the government (which also
represented PBC) and ABC that while the loan/credit agreements should
aim to rationalize onlending terms and conditions for the project, the
government, ABC and the Bank Group should seek ways to rationalize the
general interest rate structure for rural households, collectives, state farms
and township and village enterprises (TVEs) by purpose and subloan
maturities. This was proposed to be done during the course of project
supervision, while related policy issues were to be considered by the
proposed study of rural finance and investment and the project's mid-term



- 12-
review. However, since the latter activity was moved to another Bank
Group-assisted operation, namely the FSTAP, the issue of rationalizing the
general interest rate structure was not effectively pursued during project
supervision.
26.  In retrospect, the project agenda seems to have been too ambitious, considering
China's record of gradualism in the area of financial reform. The Minutes of Negotiation
recorded that while the Chinese delegation agreed with the onlending terms proposed on
the project, they "noted that, in order to achieve these onlending rates, considerable
difficulties had to be overcome." This is not to say that ABC languished in the controls
and constraints imposed on a financial sector that was emerging from its role as state
fiscal agent into conmmercial banking organizations. ABC is ranked by asset size as
among the top 100 banks in the world (Institutional Investor, August 1995). Probably the
most significant event affecting ABC (and the other specialized banks) was the Third
Plenum of the Fourteenth Party Central Committee in November 1993 which issued its
"Decision on Issues concerning the Establishment of a Socialist Market Economic
Structure." This document outlined a 50-point agenda for economic reform, including a
long-term strategy to stimulate rapid transformation of the Chinese financial system and
to gradually transform the specialized banks into commercial banks. Only then could
ABC truly embark on a route toward commercialization, and its progress is outlined in
Box 1.
Human Resource Development
27.   RCIV focused on core activities in ABC's very large training program that is
funded from its own resources including: (a) training of trainers at three national training
colleges (Tianjin, Wuhan and Changchun) and 147 regional/vocational training schools;
(b) conduct of special courses for project/credit staff in project appraisal, supervision and
monitoring; and (c) purchase of equipment for ABC headquarters, project provinces and
the three national training colleges. Overall, during 1991-96, some 24,750 officials
(including 500 trainers) received training under the project-assisted programs. About 350
officials (including 20 trainers from three national training colleges) were trained abroad,
focusing on financial management, risk analysis, internal audit, foreign exchange
business; foreign languages; and information technology. Domestic and overseas training
for a large number of managerial staff has significantly enhanced ABC's institutional
capabilities for rapid commercialization. ABC's three national training colleges have,
over the years, developed comprehensive training material in collaboration with the
Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI). By investing about $650 million
equivalent from its own resources since its reestablishment in 1979, ABC has developed
infrastructure that is capable of training annually about 200,000 staff in different
programs. With its ongoing commercialization, ABC is in the process of reorienting
some of its trainers and training programs, and twinning with universities and banking
institutes abroad, in Europe and the United States, to effectively address skill
requirements of its new mandate.



- 13 -
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28.   The main factors that had affected the achievement of RCIV's objectives as
envisaged at appraisal were the following:
Factors Subject to Government Control
29.   Macroeconomic  Environment.   RCIV  started  in  a relatively  stable
macroeconomic environment (with inflation rates ranging between 3 percent in 1991 and
5.4 percent in 1992) but faced high rates of inflation in the following two years, at 13
percent in 1993 and 21.4 percent in 1994. Though later years saw the inflation
decelerating as a result of the government's successful implementation of stabilization
policies, the inflation rates were still high at 15 percent in 1995 and about 10 percent in
1996. The inflation was driven mostly by increases in administrative prices for food,
petroleum, coal and steel (and accommodated by excessive monetary expansion
generated in part from sharp increases in foreign exchange reserves). On the one hand,
this slowed down the completion of several subprojects, as ABC and subborrowers faced
the constraint of raising counterpart funds; and on the other, subprojects that were
completed during 1991-93 faced a severe shortage of working capital in the wake of
PBC's tightened controls on bank credit.
30.   The changes in relative prices of inputs and outputs reduced the profitability of
some investments. The fallout was that several of ABC's subborrowers defaulted in
subloan repayments, affecting the quality of RCIV's loan portfolio. As ABC had made
the bulk (close to 80 percent) of the total subloan commitments proposed under the
project by the end of 1992, the project could not effectively respond to economic
stabilization measures by reducing the level of new lending and making subproject
appraisal more rigorous, so that the project-financed portfolio would still be viable in an
inflationary environment. Demand for project funds was also exacerbated by the fact that
during the periods of high inflation (1993 and 1994), PBC-administered rates were
negative in real terms.
31.   Financial Sector Policy. During the early years of project implementation, the
credit plan was the centerpiece of monetary management and guided the bulk of all
lending activity. By setting limits on prices (interest rates) and quantities (credit
ceilings), PBC tried, often unsuccessfully, to accomplish the dual objectives of directing
credit while maintaining macroeconomic stability. Aware of the increasing inconsistency
between China's highly decentralized and largely market-driven economy and a centrally
plamned credit allocation, the authorities began to reduce the scope of the credit plan until
by 1995, it was only applied to the four specialized banks and the policy banks, with
other banks' lending controlled through asset/liability management ratios.  The
specialized banks are allowed to extend additional credit only if deposits exceed targets.
The government's stated position is to continue to gradually phase out the credit plan,
while pressing ahead with the development of indirect instruments.



- 14-
Box 1: ABC's PROGRESS IN COMMERCIALIZATION
* Establishment of ADBC Completed. The separation of ABC's "policy" business into ADBC, which
started in 1994, was completed in 1996. ADBC, which used ABC's agency services for the past two
years, now operates through its own branch network.
* Separation of RCCs Completed. By end-1996, ABC had fully entrusted the administration of the
RCC system to the Rural Finance Reform Office, set up under the jurisdiction of the State Council.
* New Charter Prepared. Following the requirements of the new Law on Commercial Banks (1995),
ABC has introduced a new charter and important initiatives in following key areas: Assets and
Liability Ratios Management; Accounting and Audit; Personnel Management; Branch Network
Assessment; Resource Planning and Adjustment; Capital Operations; Deposit Mobilization; Loan
Portfolio Management; Noncredit Business; and Financial Management.
* Pilot Programs Introduced.  Several provincial and lower-level branches have piloted new
management practices and improved credit risk management; profitability norms, organizational
efficiency and quality of services provided to clients.
* Large-Scale Readjustment and Relocation of Grassroots Offices Under Way. Over the past years,
about 7 percent of the total number of offices (about 50,000) have been closed and/or relocated, using
business potential and efficiency criteria. This process will continue over the next several years, with
emphasis on closing down of unprofitable branches in rural areas and opening of new branches in urban
areas.
* Business Development. Much progress has been made in improving the quality of banking and
financial services to clients. Besides traditional banking, ABC has introduced international banking
services; credit card business; trade bills settlement; and other kinds of agency and noncredit services.
Over 90 percent of the branches in large- and medium-size cities have computerized their operations
and electronic banking including ATM stations. Some 6,000 offices are connected to electronic
payments/ remittance systems.
* Review of Financial Management Practices. In conjunction with RCIV and using the Asian
Development Bank's technical assistance, ABC completed four major reviews as follows: Project
Lending Review; Risk Management Policies and Procedures; Accounting Systems Review; and
Accounting Systems Improvement. While the Financial Management symposium planned under RCIV
for March 1991 was not held (as the Bank and ABC thought that this activity could be better handled
by the Bank-assisted FSTAP), ABC carried out other activities provided by RCIV including the reviews
of its medium- and long-term lending strategies and lending policies concerning its major client groups
including TVEs, state farms, and the beneficiaries of poverty alleviation programs. The Bank reviews
noted that the content of these studies were not analytical enough; moreover, in view of the change in
ABC's business mandate, these studies would have to be redone or updated involving ADBC and
RCCs.
* Development of Business Plans. ABC carried out an activity that was not contemplated by RCIV
appraisal, namely the development of business plans, on a pilot basis, for two provincial branches
(Henan and Fujian) in conjunction with the preparation of the proposed ABC Commercialization
Project for possible Bank assistance. These business plans focused on issues such as strategic analysis,
financial analysis, portfolio analysis, and development of action plans that would accelerate ABC's
commercialization. ABC proposes to field-test a suitable methodology and framework for the
preparation of business plans, for purposes of replication in other provinces.
. ABC's Management Information System. Based on the studies carried out as part of appraisal, RCIV
had provided for a review of ABC's management information system (MIS) and related
computerization programs. Using a long-tenn consultant to study this topic, ABC's management
reviewed a medium- to long-term strategic plan for ABC's computerization and the development of an
MIS. Some of the key elements of this work have been included in ABC's Ninth Five-Year Plan.
ABC's MIS is still in a formative stage and needs much strengthening.



- 15 -
Factors Subject to ABC Control
32.   Project Implementation. Generally, RCIV relied excessively on government
agencies for technical support, which are becoming increasingly out-of-date on broader
technology and subsector issues. The use of TEG and local consultants helped to
improve subproject designs and layouts to some extent, but as demonstrated by the
incidence of problem projects, these arrangements were not adequately used by ABC
branches, with a possible consequence that technical experience gained in one province
has not benefited other areas.  At the provincial level, ABC's supervision over
subprojects, despite considerable improvement over RCI to III, was still less than
optimal, especially in terms of ensuring compliance with technical standards, addressing
subproject performance problems, and ensuring timely repayment of subloans.
33.   Subprojects financed by RCIV  generally followed local environmental
regulations; however, for a good number of agroprocessing subloans, the Bank
supervision missions pointed out deficient wastewater treatments. ABC promptly asked
subborrowers to rectify environmental problems, stopping subloan disbursements where
needed. ABC has now established a joint agreement with the National Environment
Protection Agency for technical collaboration.
34.   During the initial years of the project (1991-92), ABC's compliance with Bank
Group procurement guidelines was a problem area as the provincial branches used local
guidelines for national competitive bidding (NCB) and limited international bidding
(LIB) procurement and shopping (both domestic and international) seemed to be the most
frequently used procurement method. However, during project implementation, ABC
revised local guidelines; provided necessary orientation and training to project staff and
subborrowers; and brought about significant efficiency in procurement of goods and
services.
Factors Subject to Subborrower Control
35.   Problems faced by several subprojects could be attributed to the lack of market
orientation and management capabilities at the level of subborrowers.  In several
subprojects, subborrowers have not scrupulously followed technical standards
recommended by the project; used traditional (and costly) designs and layouts, did not
adequately explore marketing strategies, and ignored efficient financial management.
Examples include: (a) failure to follow breeding and nursery guidelines to produce virus-
free planting material for oranges which resulted in substantial losses in Guangdong and
Guangxi; (b) financing investments in cotton and silk processing in Hunan, without
adequate profitability and market analysis; and (c) poor technical and financial
management of poultry breeding in Beijing and shrimp and eel production in Liaoning
and Guangdong. Clearly, ABC and the governments' technical bureaus should have
assisted clients more systematically to address these problems through necessary
orientation programs and effective subloan supervision.



-16-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.   The project's sustainability is uncertain. The real sector benefits are likely to be
substantial, including increased production and productivity in a regime of diversified
agriculture, incremental employment, enlarged product markets, enterprise efficiency,
substantial use of improved technologies and environmental awareness.  ABC's
sustainability and its continued profitability will be somewhat contingent on the financial
reform process. The existence of strong linkages between the fiscal, banking and enterprise
sectors, and organizational changes needed to transform the existing institutions with
different mindsets, culture and traditions into market-based institutions will take time. The
pace of commercialization of ABC and the other formerly specialized banks will to a large
extent be influenced by state enterprise reforms, since the financial health of one affects the
financial health of the other.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.   The Bank's approach, during project identification, preparation and appraisal, to
achieve broader financial sector objectives (such as sectorwide interest rate reforms)
through a single FIL such as RCIV, seems in retrospect too ambitious. The project had
four different task managers over the six-year implementation period. Because of this and
the fact that substantial organizational changes (split off of policy lending and then RCCs)
were either impending or occurring during the course of implementation, supervision
missions concentrated on tracking progress of the subprojects, and the eleven provincial
branches' performances in subloan administration, instead of the overall institutional
development of ABC and the financial sector objectives of RCIV.  In retrospect,
supervision did not place adequate emphasis on the institutional and sectoral objectives of
the project and, therefore, is rated as deficient.
F. BORROWER (MOF) AND BENEFICIARY (ABC) PERFORMANCE
38.   The borrower (MOF) was not expected to have a direct role in RCIV
implementation except for two sectoral activities, namely, the project's mid-term review
and the rural finance and investment study. However, since the scope of these activities
was reduced in the wake of ongoing financial sector reforms, ABC was asked to complete
these studies focusing on its operations. It is unclear why MOF did not use market-based
rates (or IBRD rates) for onlending Bank Group funds to ABC as required under the
Loan/Credit agreements and why it did not seek the Bank's prior concurrence to use
lower-than-market/IBRD rates. This left one important objective of the project, namely
elimination of subsidies to ABC lending, unachieved. The ICR mission was informed
that all future Bank Group loans/credits to financial intermediaries will carry market-
based interest rates.
39.   ABC on its part made best efforts to implement the project efficiently in spite of
various systemic problems and the lack of adequate skilled manpower. In implementing
RCIV, after initial difficulties concerning compliance with the Bank's procurement and
environment guidelines (largely discovered through Bank supervisions), ABC made



- 17-
major strides in rectifying the problems, improving subproject appraisal and supervision,
and enforcing Bank procurement and environment protection guidelines. ABC did not,
however, integrate project lending with its mainstream credit departments to improve the
project's institutional development impact, efficiency of resource planning, portfolio
management, and quality of financial services provided to clients. Because of this lack of
integration, RCIV could make only a limited impact on improving the quality of ABC's
lending and portfolio management.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   The project outcome is viewed as unsatisfactory on the basis that it at best only
partially achieved its sector policy and institutional development objectives and its level
of achievement of the financial objectives was negligible. One could ask how an
institution that had satisfactorily implemented three previous projects could perform
poorly on the fourth. Also, it is unusual to rate a project with an estimated final ERR of
24 percent as unsatisfactory. But RCIV had higher aims than the earlier projects,
extending into the overall operations of ABC and even into the government's financial
sector development strategy. The same project in today's financial sector environment
would have a much greater chance of achieving its objectives.
41.   Sector Policies (Partial Achievement). The financial sector policies that had the
greatest effect on ABC during project implementation-separation of policy lending
(including grain procurement and poverty alleviation) from ABC into a newly established
financial intermediary and separation of the rural credit cooperative system from ABC's
oversight-were not the result of the project, but were definitely within the overall
objectives of the financial sector reform recommended by the Bank and intended to be
supported by the project. The RCIV activities intended to support rural financial market
development and broader financial sector development-a study of rural investment and
finance and ongoing consultations with the Bank on a general interest rate structure (this
was an understanding reached at negotiations, but not covenanted)-were, in the case of the
forrner, reduced in scope as a result of the split of ABC and by the overlap with a
subsequent FSTAP, which focused on reforms applicable to all financial institutions and for
the latter, not pursued.
42.   Financial Objectives (Negligible). The financial objectives that the project had
envisaged-elimination of subsidized credit, a more rational interest rate structure for the
project and for ABC as a whole, and adjustment of the provision for bad debts to levels
more realistic and in line with international practice-were not implemented within the time
frame of project implementation. It is unclear why MOF provided subsidized credit to
ABC, but the interest rate structure and provisioning are issues still unresolved for the
sector and still being addressed by the Bank on a project-by-project basis. The Bank is now
of the view that deregulated interest rates are an important objective, which can best be fully
attained only in the final stages of the financial reform process after a number of conditions,
such as macroeconomic stability, contestable financial markets, healthy financial



- 18 -
institutions and real sector enterprises, trained bank staff and bank supervisors, and modem
accounting and auditing systems, have been put into place.
43.  Institutional Development (Partial Achievement). The main objectives of the
institutional development programs were to upgrade ABC's financial management (with a
symposium in Beijing, which ABC and the Bank decided could be better handled by the
FSTAP). Some studies were carried out and reviewed by the Bank, but not pursued further
in light of the impending split of policy lending and RCC oversight. ABC's recapitalization
plan was not prepared, but there is a view in the Bank that this recapitalization without first
addressing the more fundamental issues is not a good strategy. ABC did not provide the
updated portfolio review annually to the Bank.
44.   Physical Objectives (Substantial Achievement).  About 94 percent of the
subprojects are performing satisfactorily and are expected to reach their production and
productivity improvement goals. The remaining 6 percent of the subprojects, accounting
for 16 percent of the subloan amounts disbursed, are rated as failed or problem projects with
the potential to further increase the proportion of overdue/nonperforming loans, the
estimated FRR and ERR are 22 percent and 24 percent, respectively.
45.   Poverty Reduction (Partial Achievement). Lending in poverty counties amounts
to about 22 percent of the total subloan amount.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
46.   ABC would take steps, in conjunction with its clients, to improve performance of
problem subprojects; spearhead the reform of state-owned enterprises that have borrowed
project funds; and improve portfolio management to reduce overdue subloans. ABC
should also continue various institutional development activities started by RCIV,
including trainers' training and staff training programs in investment appraisal, project
monitoring, and financial management. ABC should use its three national training
colleges and several regional training institutes to disseminate skills and experience in
project lending gained through RCI to RCIV.
47.   Competitive Banking Model.  When RCIV was processed, it was ABC's
primary mandate to support rural financial intermediation and real sector development
(including poverty alleviation). However, since ABC is now in a transition to becoming
a full-fledged commercial bank, the Chinese authorities should focus on using a range of
institutions including all commercial banks (not just ABC), the RCC system, policy
banks, and nonbank financial intermediaries in order to promote competition and
efficiency in the provision of financial services to the rural sector. The government and
PBC should launch a broad-based program to develop institutional capabilities within the
RCC system, ADBC, as well as ABC to enhance achievement of objectives of RCIV and
the three earlier Bank-assisted rural credit projects.
48.   Interest Rates and Recapitalization. In future, financial sector policies pursued
by PBC and the government should ensure that ABC and similar financial institutions



- 19 -
receive adequate interest spreads on foreign-funded (as well as domestic) lending to
enable them to (a) fully meet transaction costs (including realistic provisioning for bad
debts) and (b) earn a reasonable profit (after tax) so that they could increase their equity
and/or pay a reasonable dividend on equity. Over a period, allowing commercial banks to
raise private capital is an issue that must be addressed by a broader financial sector
dialogue between the Bank and the government, if the processes started by RCIV and
other similar Bank-assisted financial sector operations are to be sustained. Meanwhile,
subject to continuing review of ABC's capital adequacy ratio, MOF guidelines on bad
debt provisioning need to be revised, as well as ABC's ability to increase its capital base
enhanced so that it could efficiently cope with problem loans, without jeopardizing its
status as a viable universal bank.
49.   Greater Donor Coordination. Future financial sector and financial intermediary
operations in China should ensure greater donor coordination (among the Bank, the Asian
Development Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural Development) to avoid
wasteful overlap and duplication in technical assistance.
50.   Technical Assistance: Design and Scope. RCIV relied for technical support
excessively on government agencies that are becoming increasingly out-of-date on
broader technology and subsector issues. China's future rural finance programs should
facilitate subborrowers to engage technical experts competitively and irrespective of
whether they work for the government or in the private sector. Future Bank Group and
other donor-assisted credit operations should provide increased focus on strengthening
ABC's portfolio management, institutional mechanisms for transferring new technologies
to subborrowers, and stricter compliance with environment protection regulations. The
project design should also place increased emphasis on the quality of subproject
appraisals, which must adequately address product marketing issues and strategies for
accessing domestic and/or export markets.
51.   At the grassroots level (especially in poverty areas), many ABC and RCC clients
still regard bank credit as a grant from the government. If new rural credit programs are
to be launched, this perception must be changed through client education, involvement of
self-help groups, accelerated introduction of new types of micro savings and credit
programs, and institutional development of grassroots-level financial institutions
including numerous types of rural credit cooperatives. The government should carry out
a comprehensive rural finance and investment study that was contemplated by RCIV to
address the above issues.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
52.   The key lessons learned from the project include the following:



- 20 -
(a)   Limit to Reform. There is a fairly narrow limit as to how far an FIL for one
banking institution can go in achieving reform objectives for the whole
financial sector.
(b)   Ownership. When financial sector objectives are introduced into an FIL, all
stakeholders (in this case, specifically PBC) must be explicitly involved and
exhibit ownership of and commitment to the project objectives.
(c)   Consensus. The Bank and Borrower should only develop projects for
which there is a strong consensus and common understanding about the
main objective of the project, particularly in a complex and sensitive policy
area such as financial sector reform.
(d)   Simplicity. Projects must be kept simple enough that both Bank and
implementing agency resources are not stretched beyond capacity to
supervise implementation.



- 21 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives          Substantial    Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             x
Sector policies                                        X
Financial objectives                                               X
Institutional development                              X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                                      X
Gender issues                                                                      x
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environmental objectives                               X
Public sector management                               X
Private sector development                                                         X
Project Sustainability                    Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
x
Rank Performance                      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                     X
Preparation assistance                                             X
Appraisal                                                          X
Supervision                                                                          X
Borrower Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                        X
Implementation                                                                        X
Covenant compliance                                                                   X
Operation (if applicable)                                          X
Assessment of Outcome           Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
x



- 22 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose                Approval      Status
Rural Credit I (Cr. 1462-CHA)   Provision of medium- and long-term loans in  FY84  Completed
Guangxi for investment in aquaculture,
orchards, agroprocessing, livestock and TA.
Rural Credit II (Cr. 1 642-CHA)  Provision of medium- and long-term loans in  FY86  Completed
Fujian and Hunan for investment in aquacul-
ture, orchards, agroprocessing, livestock and
TA.
Rural Credit III (Cr. 1871 -CHA) Provision of medium- and long-term loans in  FY88  Completed
Anhui, Henan and Hubei to stimulate growth
and diversification of agriculture and
increase the operational efficiency of ABC.
Financial Sector Technical   Support to govemment for continued    FY93         Ongoing
Assistance Project           financial sector refonn
(Cr. 2423-CHA)
Agricultural Bank of China   ABC's capacity building as a commercial        Under preparation
Commercialization Project    bank.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                              Date planned            Date actual
Identification                                         04/88                 10/03/88
Preappraisal                                             -                   08/08/89
Appraisal                                              11/89                 12/11/89
Negotiations                                           04/90                 09/10/90
Board presentation                                       -                   10/30/90
Signing                                                  -                   12/10/90
Effectiveness                                          12/90                 03/22/91
Project completion                                   06/30/95                12/31/96
Loan closing                                          12/31/95               12/31/96



- 23 -
TABLE 4: LoAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97
Appraisal estimate               30.0      80.0     150.0    220.0    275.0
Actual                           31.4     112.3     172.5    220.8      259.2     268.8     274.6
Actual as % of adjusted estimate   104.8  140.4     115.0     100.4      94.3
Date of final disbursement      February 5, 1997



- 24 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR             Unit         Estimated       Actual La
Incremental Production at Full Development:
Crops
Fruit                                            ton            360,000        490,280
Vegetable and other specialty crops              ton             170,000        163,420
Bamboo                                           ton           1,000,000        117,500
Tea                                              ton             40,000          12,280
Mulberry and cocoon                              ton             180,000         13,210
Livestock
Cattle                                           head           200,000         110,840
Sheep/Goat                                       head           450,000         65,600
Poultry                                          bird         21,000,000     13,304,000
Pig                                              head                 -         165450
Fishery
Freshwater fish                                  ton              13,000        28,670
Shrimp                                           ton               1,800            84
Scallop                                          ton              6,000          2,490
Fingerling                                       n/a            adequate       adequate
Agroprocessing
Fruit processing                                 ton                  -          11,870
Fruit storage                                    ton                  -         24,470
Livestock product                                ton                  -          12,610
Animal feed                                      ton                  -        223,560
Tea processing                                   ton                  -          5,600
Chinese medicine                                 ton                  -         20,340
Cold storage                                     ton                  -         97,620
Market                                           each                 -             20
Incremental production value                   $ million            600            826
Incremental employment generation             person/year        108,000       655,900
Training                                        person                -         24,750
La Figures are rounded.



- 25 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
(Not Applicable)
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study         Purpose as defined at         Status                Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Study of rural invest-   Review of rural financial Partially done focusing on  Limited as ABC now in transi-
ment and fnance      institutions and credit   ABC's constraints to raising tion to become a universal bank;
and interest rate policies long-term funds for rural   rural lending being moved to
lending                 ADBC and RCCs
Development of ABC's Review of status of lend- Completed           Conclusions incorporated in
lending policies for    ing to TVEs, state farms                   ABC's lending policies
major client groups    and poverty groups



- 26 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Y million)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate La
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Crops                                 614.5    153.9    768.4    724.1   181.0       905.1
Livestock                             535.2    134.0    669.3    448.0   112.0       560.0
Aquaculture                           301.1     26.0    327.1    359.3    31.3       390.6
Agroprocessing & Marketing            572.1    245.0    817.0  1,509.4   621.3   2,130.7
Technical Assistance                    5.7      8.5      14.2      6.3      8.6      14.9
Total                             2,028.7    567.3   2,596.0  3,047.1   954.2    4,001.3
/a Source: ABC provincial branches.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate /a
Item                                  Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Crops                                 130.2     32.6    162.8    125.3    31.3       156.6
Livestock                             113.4     28.4    141.8      73.0    18.2       91.2
Aquaculture                            63.8      5.5      69.3     60.3     5.3       65.6
Agroprocessing & Marketing            121.2     51.9    173.1    235.2    97.1       332.3
Technical Assistance                    1.2      1.8       3.0      1.0      1.3       2.3
Total                              429.8    120.2    550.0    494.8   153.2        648.0
/a Source: ABC provincial branches.



-27 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate /a
Source                         Local      Foreign     Total        Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD                            42.2         32.8      75.0          57.4        17.6      75.0
IDA                             112.6        87.4     200.0          152.3      47.3      199.6
ABC/RCCs                        110.9         0.0     110.9          85.4       26.8      112.2
Subborrowers                    164.1         0.0     164.1          199.7      61.5     261.2
Total                        429.8       120.2      550.0         494.8      153.2     648.0
/a     Increases in investment costs were financed mainly by the subborrowers.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS /a
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Activity            FRR        ERR         NPV             FRR          ERR           NPV
(N)       (%)       (Y million)       (%)           (%/0)      (Y million)
Crops               31         36           837            30            34           1,334
Livestock           27         28           386             19           27             260
Aquaculture         27         26            198           25            28             223
Agroprocessing       32        43           421            23            23           1,379
Marketing /b          -          -             -           14            14              46
Total Project     24         27         1,944            22            24          3,044
/a  FRR  and ERR represent weighted averages, based on 40 representative models for the five
subcomponents and their relative shares in the total project-assisted lending program.
lb Marketing component was not separately listed at appraisal.



- 28 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-           Original    Revised
Agree-                 nant  Present fulfillment  fulfillment
ment      Section     type   Status    date        date       Description of covenant          Comments
DCA   Art. 1,           3       C                          Project entities defined as
Section 1.02(a)                                     Fujian, Guangdong, Hubei,
Hunan, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning,
Shaanxi, Inner Mongolia,
Guangxi, Beijing
DCA   Art, 3            3      NC                          MOF to onlend proceeds to    MOF applied rate applicable to
Section 3.01 (b)                                    ABC at IBRD rate            blend of IBRD and IDA funds
DCA   Art. 3,           3      NC                           MOF to take measures to insure ABC continued to be bound by
Section 3.02                                        that ABC has authority to   PBC rates for subloans, which
increase subloan interest rates  in some years were negative in
to achieve minimum spread of  real terms.
2.5% or such other rate agreed
with Bank/IDA and that
subloan interest rates are
positive in real terms
DCA   Art. 3,           12     CP     06/30/92              Govt/ABC to carny out studies  The studies were partially
Section 3.07(a)                                     under Part C (rural investment  completed, partly due to simi-
and finance, rural financial  lar work under the later FSTAP
institutions, and credit and  project and the implementation
interest rate policies)     of new financial sector
reforms.
DCA   Art. 3,           5      CP      12/31/92            Midterm review of financial    The mid-term review was
Section. 3.09                                       sector reform, Project and  restricted to project-related
ABC's institutional develop-    matters. However, a general
ment, including risk-assets ratio review of financial sector
and recapitalization       reform program was held as
part of FSTAP project supervi-
sion. Review of project imple-
mentation issues conducted as
part of project supervision. No
recapitalization plan was pre-
pared and reviewed.
DCA   Sched. 4          5      NA      Annual               Calculation of interest rate from  No onlending in yuan; all in
MOF to ABC for onlending in  foreign exchange. However,
yuan                        MOF did not comply with
covenant, which required
onlending at IBRD rate.
PA     Art. 3,          3      NC                           Spread between cost of funds   Interest rate spread on local
Section. 3.02(a)                                    and subloans to be 2.5% after   currency subloans was general-
taxes                       ly less than 2.5 % (before tax)
during 1991-94 and 1996.
Interest spread was also less
than 2.5% (before tax) on for-
eign currency subloans. How-
ever, ABC reported that
spreads on incremental foreign
exchange business generated
by RCIV helped to make good
the shortfall but details are not
available. ABC did not
approach PBC to allow
flexibility in interest rates
admissible on foreign-funded
subloans.



- 29 -
Cove-            Original    Revised
Agree-                 nant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment      Section     type   Status     date        date        Description of covenant           Comments
PA     Art. 3,           3      CP                           ABC to maintain financial    ABC maintained its
Section 3.02(b)                                      viability and profitability,  profitability, but kept the bad
including provisioning for bad   debt provision at the low rate
debts on the basis of criteria    set by PBC.
acceptable to IBRD/IDA
PA     Art. 3,           3      CD                           ABC to maintain equity at level Recent audit indicated ABC's
Section 3.03                                         not less than 5% of its risk  capital adequacy ratio at about
assets                       8%.
Art. 3,          5      CD      12/31/91              ABC to provide recapitalization
Section 3.04                                          plan to Bank; discuss plan with
Bank; modify plan to ensure
that ABC's risk-weighted capi-
tal adequacy ratio to be at least
8%; carry out plan
PA      Section 4.01     9       C       06/30               Auditing of Provincial Project   Separate reports prepared for
annually             accounts; provide to Bank/IDA   each province include project
certified copies of accounts and  accounts and provincial branch
financial statements, auditor's  financial statements published
report, and financial statements  in Annual Report. ABC's
of ABC's provincial and county global accounts audited by the
branches in project provinces    State Audit Agency.
and ABC's total operations.
PA     Part A            5       C                           Procedures for appraisal and
Para. I                                               approval, including enterprise
appraisal for state farms and
intermediary enterprises
PA     Part A            3       C                           Free limit subloans defined as
Para 2                                                subloang in an amount to be
financed out of loan/credit
proceeds not to exceed $3
million equivalent
PA     Part A            3       C                           Request by ABC for authoriza-
Para 3                                               tion to withdraw from Loan/
Credit account for a free-limit
subloan shall contain a sum-
mary description of subborrow-
er, subproject and terms and
conditions of subloan; first two
irrigation subprojects to be
submitted to IDA for review.
PA     Part B            3      CD                           Subborrower contribution to be  After some initial problems
Para I                                                at least 300/h of total invest-  with subborrower contri-
ment; interest rate for subbor-   butions and interest rates,
rowers to be not lower than  compliance was satisfactory.
ABC's or RCC's prevailing    Interests rates turned positive
rate, positive in real terms and   in real terms during 1995 and
in compliance with interest rate  after with the decline in
spread covenant; amortization   inflation.
to be based on cash flow and
not to exceed 15 years;
subloans to be withdrawn and
repaid in yuan or foreign
exchange, with subborrower to
bear foreign exchange risk.



- 30 -
Cove-           Original    Revised
Agree-                nant  Present fulfillment  fulfillment
ment      Section    type   Status     date        date       Description of covenant          Comments
PA     Part C           3       C                           RCC eligibility: satisfactory
Para 2                                              financial condition; equity
reserves not less than 15% of
total loan portfolio, total
amount of past due loans not to
exceed 20% of loans outstand-
ing and past due loans in arrears
more than 3 years not to exceed
5% of total loans outstanding.
PA     Part C           3      CD                           For RCC subloans, ABC to    Several ABC subloans
Para 3                                              onlend not more than 50% of   exceeded 50% of subproject
subproject cost; require repay-  cost, but these were adjusted.
ment by RCC within same
amortization period as subloan
and with same grace period;
interest at ABC's prevailing
rate for similar loans to RCCs.
PA     Sched. 2         10     CD                           LIB procurement procedures to  After considerable problems
Section 1,                                          be used for items or groups of  initially, usually in compli-
Part C I                                            items of machinery and equip-  ance.
ment estimated to cost $50,000
or more if used for producing
export products and $ 100,000
for producing for domestic
market.
PA     Sched. 2         10      C                          NCB procurement procedures
Section 1,                                         to be used for items/groups
Part C 3                                           estimated to cost between
$50,000 and $ 100,000 (except
for export production) and for
civil works under Part A.
PA     Sched. 2         10      C                          Price quotations to be obtained
Section 1,                                         for items/groups estimated to
Part C 4                                            cost less than $50,000
PA     Sched. 3         5       C                          Each project entity shall estab-
Part A I                                            lish and maintain a project
management committee,
including a representative of the
environmental protection
agency (EPA)
PA     Sched. 3         5       C      12/31/91            ABC to maintain and strength-  TEG and consultant rosters
Part A 3                                            en its Technical Expert Group   established at various levels
(TEG) at headquarters and by
Dec. 31, 1991, review progress
of strengthening
PA     Sched.3          5      CP      Dec. 31             ABC to conduct assessment of  Area livestock components
Part B                         annually             use of Area Management Plan-  reduced due to lower profita-
ning techniques and review  bility; AMP techniques satis-
with Bank/IDA               factorily implemented. ABC
will continue use of AMP
techniques in future lending.
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partially



- 31 -
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9            NA  = not applicable
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral            NC  = not complied
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants            regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 32 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Operational Manual Statements were complied with.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned            Revised             Actual
Stage of Project Cycle           Weeks  $'000       Weeks  $'000       Weeks   $'000
Preparation to Appraisal            -       -          -       -        175.5    488.3
Appraisal-Board                     -       -          -       -         70.8    209.4
Negotiations through Board Approval    -    -          -       -          14.4     47.3
Supervision                         -       -          -       -        130.0    446.3
Completion                          -       -          -       -         22.5      75.0
TOTAL                                                                 413.2  1,271.3



- 33 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Number                                               Imple-     Devel-
Stage of    Month/    of      Days   Specialized staff skills represented L/  mentation   opment  Type of
project cycle    year   persons  in field                                  status Lb   objectives    problems
Identification   10/88     7        26       CS/EC/AQSILS/AGS/APSIFA
Preparation      04/89     4        32              CS/EC/APS/FA
Preappraisal     09/89     10       35    CS/FAIEC/APS/AQS/AGSIMS/HS/LS
Appraisal        12/89     8        30      CS/HS/FA/EC/APS/AGS/LS/IDS
Negotiation      09/90     4                        CSIEC/LW/DS
Board approval   10190
Signing          12/90
Effective        03/91
Supervision 1    05/91     5        21            CSIEN/GD/APS/LS                I          I         LC/PP
Supervision 2    04/92     4        17             EC/CS/APS/AQS                2           1      OS/LC/PP/SP
Supervision 3    09/92     9       23    EC/CS/APS/AQS/GS/LSIMSIIE/AGS          2           I      OS/LC/PP/SP
Supervision 4    11/93     4       24              APS/CS/AQS/OO                I           1      OS/LC/CF/SP
Supervision 5    06/94     4       22                CS/APS/OO                  S          S         CF/SP/EI
Supervision 6    05/95     4        13             CS/APS/AQS/OO                S          S            SP
Supervision 7    05/96     1        3                    EC                     S          S           LC
Completion       03/97     4       20              CS/EC/APS/AQS
/a AGS: Agricultural Specialist; APS: Agroprocessing Specialist; AQS: Aquacultural Specialist; CS: Credit Specialist;
DS: Disbursement Specialist; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; GS: Grassland (Rangeland) Specialist;
HS: Horticulture Specialist; IDS: Institutional Development Specialist; IE: Irrigation Engineer; LS: Livestock Specialist;
LW: Lawyer; MS: Marketing Specialist; 00: Operation Officer.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; S: Satisfactory.
/c CF: Counterpart Funds; El: Environmental Issues; LC: Legal Covenant; OS: Overall Status; PP: Procurement Progress; SP:
Studies Progress.






- 35 -                     ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREPARED BY ABC
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2182-CHA; LOAN 3265-CHA
1.    The Project
1.01  Name of project:    Fourth Rural Credit Project
Credit No.:       CREDIT 2182-CHA/LOAN 3265-CHA
Region:           East Asia and Pacific region
Country:          China
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Rural Credit
Loan Amount:      CR 2182: SDR 143.7 Million/LN 3265: USD 75 Million
2.    Project Background
2.01  Following the introduction of economic reforms since 1979, China's agriculture
has achieved a remarkable progress, with a rapid growth in the output of grain, poultry
and animal husbandry. The outstanding feature of the buoyant farn sector performance
in 1996 was a record grain harvest of 490 million tons, about 25 million tons above the
previous record in 1995, enabling the country, for the first time, to reach the level of per
capita grain consumption close to the world average. However, it is premature to suppose
that China's grain production has hit a new, consistently upward trend considering the
factors such as relatively small size of cultivated land per capita, increasing reduction in
farm land due to diversion to non-agricultural uses, relatively backward methods of
production, and production losses caused by natural disasters such as floods and drought.
Also, with growing population and per capita incomes, demand pressures on agricultural
production are increasing. It is, therefore, imperative for China to continue to improve
agricultural efficiency through increased production, productivity, product diversification
and quality improvement, accompanied by more efficient agro-processing and marketing
systems.
2.02 Since its re-establishment in 1979, the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) was
mandated to support rural development and poverty alleviation programs. In 1994, the
government launched major financial sector reforms, with ABC and other state-owned
specialized banks beginning their transition to genuine commercial banks. Following the



- 36 -                    ANNEX A
promulgation of the Commercial Banking Law, the ABC was split and its policy lending
(for government-sponsored programs) was transferred to the newly established
Agricultural Development Bank of China (ADBC). Subsequently, the government also
separated the network of Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCCs) from ABC's supervision in
1996 to PBC, in order to accelerate ABC's transition to a genuine commercial bank.
2.03  At the time launching of the Fourth Rural Credit Project (RCIV) in 1991, ABC
had successfully implemented the first two IDA-assisted rural credit projects, while the
third one was under implementation. These projects played an important role by
supplementing ABC's longer term resources for rural development, and ABC's
institutional development.
Name of Project   Project No.  Total Loan  Completion Date
Rural Credit I    1462-CHA   47.2m. SDR  June 1988
Rural Credit II   1642-CHA   84.0m. SDR  September 1991
Rural Credit III    1871-CHA   123 .8m. SDR June 1994
3.    Project Objectives and Design
3.01  The main objectives (as followings) of the Fourth Rural Credit Project were as
follows:
(a)   to stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by financing
investments by farmers, collectives and enterprises; and
(b)   to  promote efficiency  of rural financial intermediation  through
introduction of sound, market-oriented policies and development of the
main rural financial institutions.
3.02  Objective (1) was achieved through the provision of credit for commercially
viable production and productivity improvements in crops, livestock and fisheries, agro-
processing, and agro-products market development with a special emphasis on
environmental protection and poverty alleviation.
3.03  Objective (2) was achieved mainly through the provision of technical assistance to
ABC for its and RCCs' institutional development, in conjunction with major rural
financial sector reforms that were introduced by the govenment in 1993.
3.04 The RCIV was processed as per the following schedule:
Preparation:      1988        Pre-appraisal:     August 1989
Appraisal:        January 1990 Negotiations:     September 1990
Effectiveness:    March 1991  Completion:        December 1996



- 37 -                    ANNEX A
3.05  The Project covers following eleven provincial branches: Beijing, Inner
Mongolia, Liaoning, Jilin, Jiangxi, Fujian, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong, Guangxi and
Shaanxi.
3.06  The project was implemented according to the Credit, Loan and Project
Agreements consistent with the government's macro-economic policies and sectoral
development strategies.  The project made use of available natural resources and
competitive advantages to develop local economies. The project generated about 656,000
incremental full time jobs especially for women and assisted in poverty alleviation.
4.    Project Organization
4.01  ABC headquarters had set up a Project Office which was responsible mainly for
external liaison and correspondence, and developing project implementation strategies
and management including guidelines for subproject appraisal, monitoring, procurement,
staff training and study tours. The project office also conducted project supervision,
monitoring and evaluation. ABC's provincial branches were responsible for subproject
appraisal except for subloans in excess of their approval powers; monitoring subproject
performance; resource mobilization; and subloan collection.  ABC  headquarters
undertook regular supervisions with focus on assessing subborrowers' financial status,
subprojects' market analysis, environmental protection and portfolio management.
4.02  Subproject approvals were made generally in compliance with the covenants and
guidelines outlined in the Loan/Credit and Project Agreements. Subloans exceeding
USD 3 million equivalent were to be approved by the Bank Group, USD 2-3 million
equivalent by ABC headquarters and others by provincial branches.  The project
implementation indicated that the free limit for provincial branches and ABC
headquarters were rather low to ensure the achievement of institutional development
objectives.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01  A total of 1,780 subprojects were implemented under the Project. Detailed
information are as following:
Category    No. of Projects   Total Investment   IBRD/IDA    Funds
(000 RMB)         (000 RMB)
Crops       1,135               905,100           393,281
Livestock     142               559,954           282,514
Fishery       141               390,670           146,780
Agro-processing 339            1,773,538          750,212
Wholesale market 23             357,180           150,460
Total       1,780             3,986,442         1,723,247



- 38 -                     ANNEX A
5.02  By the end of 1996, the project had financed planting of over 320,840 mu of fruits
trees, 69,660 mu of tea, 889,520 mu of other crops; construction of 137,280 mu of fishery
(including freshwater and sea water); raising of 110,840 cattle, 65,600 sheep and goat,
165,500 pigs, 13.3 million poultry; building or improving of about 340 agricultural
product and by-products processing plants and supporting of 23 markets. The combined
output value reached 6.9 billion RMB yuan.
5.03  At the beginning of the project implementation, ABC  Headquarters had
established a Technical Expert Group (TEG) at the national level. The TEG's main
functions were to provide advice to subborrowers on technical designs and layouts;
review subproject feasibility studies and ABC subloan approvals; and supervise
subproject compliance with technical aspects. The Group carried out its responsibilities
satisfactorily. ABC headquarters and provincial branches used the project cycle approach
in implementing the project, by carrying out individual subprojects' feasibility studies,
appraisal and monitoring, with necessary attention to procurement of goods and services
and environmental requirements as per the Bank Group guidelines. These approaches
have now been extended to ABC's non-project lending undertaken by mainstream credit
departments. In fact, many subprojects' good performance could be attributed to the
introduction of systematic appraisal procedures through a series of Bank/IDA-assisted
projects.
5.04  The project period was extended by one year mainly due to: (a) a substantial
increase in the lending program resulting from the depreciation of the yuan relative to US
dollar (from 1:4.7 in 1991 to 1:8.7 in 1994) and (b) high rates of inflation during 1992-
1994, which caused a remarkable increase in the project investment cost, which
inevitably created problems for ABC to find increased amount of counterpart resources,
and financially sound sub-projects in subsectors and areas included in the project.
5.05  Most of the subprojects financed by RCIV  are performing satisfactorily.
However, some 123 subprojects (including a group of small citrus subloans in
Guangdong), about 7% of the total, approved during the project's first two years, 1991-93
have problems with achieving expected rates of return and subloan collections. The
problem subloans amount to 632 million yuan or 15.9% of the total investment. Most of
the problem subprojects are predominantly in tree crops followed by livestock, fisheries
and agro-processing. These subprojects are relatively small and located in remote and/or
poverty areas where there is an acute shortage of trained manpower making it difficult for
subborrowers to secure satisfactory technical and marketing services.  Performance
problems are more acute for subprojects undertaken by state-owned enterprises which
often lack flexibility, resilience and incentives required for effective management.
5.06  In support of the project's poverty alleviation objective, the RCIV approved
subprojects in as many as 90 counties in eleven project provinces, which are classified as
poverty counties, with total loans of RMB 476 million, financing investments in sub-
sectors such as crops and livestock.



-39-                      ANNEX A
5.07 Unlike RCI to III, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) wanted ABC to bear the foreign
exchange risk on Bank Group funds and, therefore, passed on the entire amount of about
USD 275 million to ABC in US dollars. ABC headquarters used part of the dollar funds
for expanding its own foreign exchange business (by providing corresponding local
resources to provincial branches) and passed on the rest to provincial branches also in US
dollars. The provincial branches used dollar funds for financing their respective foreign
exchange business and issued subloans in local currencies using their domestic funds.
Except for a few subloans which financed export-oriented activities, all other subloans
were expressed in the local currency. Subborrowers operating in the domestic market
were generally unwilling to undertake foreign exchange risk. The People's Bank of
China continued regulation of interest rates and the limited ability of the subprojects to
bear market rates of interest, it was difficult for ABC to use the flexible interest rate
policy proposed by the RCIV. ABC therefore could not comply with the project
covenant that required it to ensure a minimum interest spread of at least 2.5%. ABC
received an average interest spread of about 2.16%.
6.    Adjustment of the Project
6.01  In a changing macroeconomic environment characterized by high rates of
inflation and responding to the problems faced in implementing numerous subprojects
spread over a vast area, ABC made some adjustments in the project's lending program
and included some investments in agricultural wholesale markets most of which have
proved to be successful.
7.    Onlending to RCCs
7.01  By the end of 1996, ABC had onlent SDR 8.62 million of Bank Group funds to
RCCs. The objective was to orient, on a pilot basis, a few RCCs to undertake project-
type lending. The subloans under this component were provided mainly to individual
farmers which helped improve their living standards, and in some measure contributed to
poverty alleviation in remote areas.
8.   Implementation of Part B
8.01 By December 31, 1996, ABC used SDR 1.597 million (under Part B of the
project): SDR 925,000 for staff training and SDR 0.672 million for procurement of
office equipment. A total of 24,750 persons(including 500 trainers from ABC's three
colleges and training school) received training through various programs, and 354
persons (including 20 trainers from three colleges) participated in overseas training and
study tours. Training courses focused on project appraisal, management, monitoring and
evaluation; benefit-cost analysis; financial management; risk management; and market
analysis. In addition, some 10 foreign experts were invited to undertake grassland
regional planning and training and provide technical assistance on flax textile industry
loans. Through these training activities, ABC's credit management level has been
substantially upgraded and staff quality improved.



-40-                      ANNEX A
8.02  ABC carried out a study to review its lending policies for three major types of
client groups under the project's TA program, including state farms; poverty alleviation;
and township and village industries. Besides, ABC has reviewed its middle and long-
term lending strategies, information technology, portfolio status, and business planing
procedures. In conjunction with RCIV, ABC used ADB-provided TA to review its Risk
Management Policy and Procedures, Project Lending Review, and Accounting System
Improvement.  All these initiatives have contributed to ABC's commercialization
process.
8.03  As part of RCIV preparation, ABC had carried out a comprehensive loan portfolio
audit and agreed to update this information annually for ABC as a whole, and for the
project provinces for purposes of assessing ABC's overall subloan collection
performance; and adequacy of interest spreads, provisions and capital. Because the
decisions on loan provisioning and write-offs rest with the government, ABC could not
effectively follow up on the measures proposed by the project.
8.04  Overall, ABC actively pursued RCIV's institutional development objectives and
prepared itself for a rapid transition from a specialized bank to a commercial bank. With
the promulgation of the Commercial Banking Law in 1995, ABC has improved its asset
quality by introducing asset/liability ratio management and risk management,
commenced rationalizing the organizational structure by closing down unprofitable
banking office and laying off credit agencies and setting up new banking offices in
developed suburb areas; and begun reform of its internal management. (ABC's
additional comments on the Bank's assessment of the institutional development objective
are included as Appendix 1.)
9.    Execution of Legal Documents
9.01  In general, ABC followed the project implementation requirements stipulated by
the legal documents.
9.02  Compared with the previous projects, ABC made remarkable progress in
complying with project covenants concerning procurement of goods and services;
subloan approvals; monitoring; and environmental regulations.
10.   Project Sustainability
10.01 RCIV's contribution to ABC's institutional capacity building, especially the
spheres of financial management, project appraisal and portfolio management, would
continue to remain relevant to its new role as a commercial bank. ABC expects further
Bank project support to upgrade its internal management including development of
management procedures, human resource development and information technology to
accelerated commercialization within the country's broader framework for financial
sector development.



-41-                      ANNEX A
10.02 Following its on-going transition from a specialized bank for rural development to
a commercial bank, ABC is in the process of adjusting its internal organization and
branch network to enable it perform as a universal bank, in a competitive environment,
and going to develop its market-oriented lending business.
11.   Bank and ABC Performance
11.01 The Bank Group supervision missions made important contributions for smooth
and successful implementation of the project. The missions' comments on key issues
were promptly reviewed, and effectively followed up by ABC. The missions included
experts in agricultural marketing; project monitoring, financing and supervision; and
procurement.
11.03 ABC, as a project beneficiary and implementing agency made necessary efforts to
ensure timely and successful implementation of the project, with a focus on improved
portfolio management and institutional capacity building.
11.04 During the project period, ABC worked out a series of loan portfolio management
rules and procedures; held diverse training courses for managers and trainers; reviewed
its loan portfolio performance; studied lending policies for its major client groups; and
assisted in improving subproject management. All these initiatives made were critical for
successful implementation of the project.
11.05 ABC and the World Bank have, over the years, established a collegial relationship
which was fundamental to the successful implementation of the project.
12.   Lessons Learned
12.01 Because real sectors assisted by the project were limited to crop planting, animal
husbandry, aquaculture and agro-processing, ABC's lending choices were limited to rural
and poverty areas where there was considerable lack of trained manpower for technical
assistance to subborrowers and project management. Consequently, several subprojects
may not realize their expected financial rates of return which has partially affected the
efficiency of the project.
12.02 Future financial sector and financial intermediary operations should ensure greater
coordination (among the Bank, ADB and IFAD) to avoid wasteful overlap and
duplication in technical assistance provided for financial sector development including
rural finance.
12.03 While ABC's institutional capacity for project appraisal, implementation and
supervision has significantly increased through the implementation of the RCIV and
earlier projects, it needs to be further strengthened and broad-based, especially in context
of ABC's new mandate for commercial banking. ABC should aim to integrate project-
type lending with its mainstream credit departments and not run it as a parallel activity.
This will help to achieve greater impact on institutional development and bring to bear



-42 -                       ANNEX A
professionalism and quality in project lending; and ensure better performance of loan
portfolio and financial management.
12.04 The new ABC commercialization project proposed for World Bank assistance
should not restrict its line of credit to specific real sectors but allow ABC to lend to any
activity that is commercially viable based on market conditions. Subprojects should not
be widely dispersed making it difficult for the branches to exercise effective supervision.



- 43 -                           ANNEX A
APPENDIX 1: ADDITIONAL BORROWER COMMENTS ON WORLD BANK ASSESSMENT
RATINGS
Agriculurar  Bank of China
Iaternadonal Department
SiF,Yulong Hota
40Fuch=gRoad- Beijing 100036, Th Pcop1c'sRepublicofChina
FAX COVER SHEET
Dare:          Augusr 4,1997             No. of Pages:  2
(including this page)
To:           Mr. Rick Scobev, Senior Ecoxlomist
Rural Development and Naurral Resource Uait
East Asia ar.d PaciJlc Region, The World Bank
Fax Na.:       1-202-5-7 "1561
From:          Min Wei, Deputy General Manager
International Deoar=eat, ABC
Fax No.:      86-10-68416011
Sabjecr:      Revised ICR-RCIV
Message:
Dear-2r. Rick Scobey,
Thank you very much fr your fax dated July l0, 1997 which
clearly addressed the details of :he Bankk's views and the internal raings
on RCIV project Regarding to the issues mentioned in your x we
would lile to have fbllowing co=enzs:
Based on the imnlementation of the forth rural credit project,
we view the project was successfil and we caa get tie same conclusion
from the Banies revised ICR. However, the project's objecrive design for
its sector refoxm i light of the nare of nural credit project was too
ambitious. RCIW was a Un of credit, not a projec for systm taasftrm,
so its desiged fnancial sector reform objectives could not be achieved
by this project itself From the Borrower side, issues regarding adecuate
provisioning for bad debts, preparation of a re-capitalizaion plan and
rationalizaton of the general interest rate siaucture which were ptoposed
by the Bank could not be imiemented completely tbroum  the
implementaticn of RCIV project in few years under the governernt's
time-based policy framework. We believe that it could be more effective
and efcient for the project implementatian  if the Bank could have take
into consideration of this Government's approach. In fact, the Chinese
financial sector reforms in the past; especiaEly in recent three yeats, have



- 44 -                           ANNEX A
made remarkable progress arnd some of them even exceeded whar the
Bank requeird during the project anpraisal. Three policy banks had beea
established in 1994. In 1996, Rural Credit Cooperatives de-hooked from
ABC's supervision, which gave ABC another chance to concentre its
efforcs on the commzeriTi7-qron  tmder Central Bank Law  and
Commercial Bank Law. ABC has strengthened rt inernal corrrl
tbrough establishment of asset-Liability management committee, loan
approval committee and inz=mal auditing committee; gradually
improving accotmting system; establishing management infoblion
system, and enhancing human resource management. We understand the
financial system in China has a long way to go, but both the Govemment
and ABC is moving at rizt direction. The process will defi3itely lead o
solve die issues like re capicaizaion plan, provision for bad debts and
inrerest rare liberation.
Based on above e=1-n-ion, I hove the Bank would take into
account of ABC's comments, arnd reconsider the project rating.
in view of their intresTs on this matter, I am sending ccpies to
Mr. Li Yong, executive director at the Worid Bank and Mr. Zhu Xan,
acdog direcnor of World Bank Desarr-ent, MOF. I am loolnrl forward
to hearing from youL
IMy best regards,
Sincerey Yours
Mi Wei
cc: Mr. Li Yong
Executive Director for China at the World Banlk
Fax: 1-202-5221579
M r. Zhu Xian
Acting Direcror
World Bank Deparrment
The Ministry ofFinc:
Fax: 68511062



- 45 -                     ANNEXB
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
A World Bank mission' visited China from March 3 to 24, 1997 to review the
implementation of the Fourth Rural Credit Project (RCIV), with a focus on assessing
primarily the degree of achievement of project objectives; prospects of the project's
sustainability; Bank and the borrower performance; project outcome; plan for the
project's future operation; and lessons learned.
The mission visited ABC's Beijing; Liaoning; Jiangxi; Hubei; and Guangdong
branches to review their experience with project implementation. At these centers, the
mission also met with ABC's project staff from other provincial branches which
participated in the project, including Inner Mongolia; Jilin; Fujian, Guangxi; Hunan and
Shaanxi, and visited a few representative subprojects to assess client perspective. At
ABC headquarters in Beijing, the mission reviewed ABC's own project completion
report and offered suggestions to improve its analytical content and conclusions. The
mission's conclusions were reviewed and agreed with ABC officials.2 It was agreed that
subject to further review of the ABC's revised ICR, government comments on the ICR,
and the discussions with the Bank management, the ICR mission's aide memoire be kept
on project file and the main conclusions and lessons learned be incorporated in the final
ICR.
1  The mission comprised of Ramesh Deshpande (Bank), Christopher Cronberg, Andrew Kaelin and
Zhou Weiguo (Consultants).
2  ABC headquarters officials included: Mss. Min Wei, Deputy General Manager; Hua Ruoming,
Division Chief; Li Shiqin, Liu Pei and Mr. Zhang Jun, Project Officers.






MAP SECTION



I



1 20'                             ~1 25'                                          130 |.(-.A:oo r
120  ~        ~         ~        ~        0
--  j . :  )  oMohe                f'                                          t                      >             <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(--
C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~115D ''
. . . {~~~~/ ~ ~      oBishui                   -T- ME  LS.ETSE                                                       ' R EP MEMEOEA
!  ='~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I' 4L Sl.AGA                                SNNIMiANfQN             IM.EJPAN
/                                                                                                 MNOT,~M,CrO    JM.L
j ER6UN   < -r-              6           s                                             _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.MNU    5HANGHAISH,
.'ERHUN                                                                                               M         MANA JAN0 _
'    - '  ~~  X ~ z       ~               S'/       Hei he0 o -.                  50U M'EOhAM   MLGUAMNGI  'ANMN   (TAIWAN
(C-' 0N 'AK -                .                                        .            .                            r -TNjAM      I HONG KOW3
E '    j A' .,          ;*,_'_  KLAMO ( \ f AACMO, PORT
P J .- -- - ! - - -j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PDE,P, ,HAUNAN.' SG..S:_,,,HUPIE
M<h Tw \./ ' 5- i            A 0:          /   tY jAKTf  SHI                  -''   " S \ I' z -'           p Longzhen"E
, -, . . / : i3 - EXE aK~~~IZ                                                                            N' '        Y      '               .'  \ TE      PTITIL.     :T yli
N          'CLSNSARAOIrh a Lunguhun                                                                                                  (.               /             --@,.> ...... 
MonzhouIi9~                    AM' l           A                             0LOW         Nnin 
M~~~~~~~O9                                                A)NGOLI\i '  .  .     .   .    97. '  ' B iW                        -                                 /r   ---,',--
"'7                  ~~~~~~~WuyiIir,g
XIN$ARMAI                                                                        (      A" 
(.     , MHX   Ei1YOOCI                                 - 0      a       /                                                      E
OiTph.r1               X   JE I LQ'WGJ-1A 1KIG
MONGOLIA
45-~~~~~~N-
ySh iczhrng_  ._-;r    9 7      D-- -.            -                   10Nfl 30  -.__'--' tI   ";                                                              LAO>^AqsuR
> j < engshti t { ~~~~~~~~~/                                                                               !             I       ;       =_ an1pocsiang
)  .  no/ 9 X Mf on -                 1              /                              0 --Rclod
;= ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /i,               /N                                                                                                MyNVOPtE;         1'wgit.n 
YOMR,                          / Z4OQI ZOO, _rN K                                                     T
NUQ                                                                                                       OngL  C
CHLMENG        /           >                  /)UPe Uj
H~~~~~~~~E! ~~~~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC
00E~~ 4~'~  'jEll  ~ ~ j~'V'                    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
-~~~~~~~DOG I                            KOREA
400
OMNMTA                                                  -                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
1ANI                 -1 D                               Doln                              FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROGRAM
SE/I                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEI MONGOL, JILIN, LIAONING PROVINCES
Boo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ~~~~~~AND BEIJING MUNICIPALITY
00HEBEi                                          H  i
0       Crops
9    . Li-estoulk
Shijiazhuang   -                           'N'                                                     ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Aquacultur
7">  /  '-2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rod
N  /T'TCT9RTMI  I j  <"""~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          0        Agropruress~~.-t (iag B.d.i
T  7-  gJLTAEET                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prefecture Boundaries    TIOLCSCl)
-1                                       -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Provinc  Boundaries
S HA  N  DO  E~~~~~~~tA  (~~~~">  -                                   -'-"-  ~~~~~Intereatione1 Boundaries
aTNEETMMMAOMEOMEONEEEEAAE,PN'EOE      0            ~00             200           300
ME  'EUNAId                             J~~~~~~~~O~~~EEEEO.AEE4EEL0.EN'MLEE,  M                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~






I                                                                      , .
100                                                                       1109                    */   0Ererd,ot              f'7 v/t!_                             i
.                                  / .ouo -, -- E5E                  w  
MONGOLIA                                                                                    *                     y           .JrSa
/                                                                        .  '\   ''  S/CHUAN  .- e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~diN  .''. nvgO  ,$ 0
. LOANk- f A; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                                              1 i 5  3
_40  -'   <        0                                   t     3t          X f         -      7            a z                       40_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s,:4. -
AN                                            /X
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I / '-a' '
40-        U         1                                                                                                                                                   A ,c
>    W   t            'dN    S_(/-',   ' .   Ooo                                                                                 -, 
Eil  aIAOI,uuon 
)000 050001    -4.\IN    S                     5i A       -H,
45.                                                                                              Deioe9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i            40'~~~~~~~~~.T
'5-/t  ffi31   ?--
\_    >,,  ,  f,=,, Sl HnC  , __A                                                                                                    r''E~
'I- ~~~~~~~~~-
,-E _ , F~~AOJI                      %,! X--INGPINdG  =    ,TOGk  :  
_    W  -~~'s     X       ,              ,           v_-=! ,IANY        ---  =
.  , . , /  , =.         ~~ZHOUZHI H4u KIM2  G         SHAPZHO-Ob                                                      C  H  I N  A
-    ;-       o--.-  s--<        --                                                                  FOURTH RURAL CRE DIT PROJECT
- ~~ ''re UU3A ,.' ' -- ' ' ~ '' SHAANXI AND NEI MONGOL PROVINCES
.. -                                                                       -. .          Ti  ,   , CHeNGGU   0  r'
MIhZAN JIAN 0; 0 YANG XIAN>.                       '-T         '      HNNN                                            Project C-mp--fes:
--.XHUNOMANG                          ~o.C 
, ,,,       N     C~~,4     , ,                                     0,                                                     Li-etock
.//              ,                             '--'   Hsnohr-A -                                                  Aqu-It-
,    . ,4G .  4~~~~~ \   _            rr~T X-0-hz                                Agr.pr.cessir,g
3   ~ ~   ',                   e          ;  LANGAO:   .- .s             . .,,,,0  0                                      C.u.ty (Xi.n) 3.und.ri.s; Project
r  v ~~~~~~ S ! ' 4 ' ' f , , ~~~~~~~~~Prcin-e Bound- ies
T. B-- ancho-i,qt'                                                                                   I.t.rn.tion.1 Boundories
g  C1 ON.d.,,G,P,,,,I. dN d4L &edWwdddnnbondLLSdemldn<>                                                     1 00              2n  i0
_  Iqu/XWM=nybaeusuanrend>>efdapWaEolbLaes    110^  Y                                                       KILOMETERS       115^        _~~~~~~~~KILMETER
1.71  It  iE rl.  _iio- X5lA'
.L                                                                                                                                                   I             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA00v.s






C                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 22129
3tr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t
(~~~~~~~~~~~C                                  0 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I  V ~ ~  V
LP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N ~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~!~
0'  -  "., x  ft'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUAY1I






)
HEILONCI/ANG
Harbin
<  t  84                    {                                   ~~~~~~~~MONGOLIA                                     f^                              hncu    
Chan5ch.n
\                                                                                     s              ~~~ ~ ~            ~     ~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEI  67, 
c~~~~.   J                  Urum(Dqi                                                                                  rm                                                   JIIN t
J-Ho , /              , f .                Shenyang . ONA    DP                     Sea oi   JAPAN
AIN r   tE,\/MN6                                                                                                                                             OF   O                                         V>
Yinchuta                                Shijiazhnan               X                  IOREA                                      -v
(AASL'                       ~~~~~~~Taiyuan
sirg                                 (  sf i/NX!          :   o Jinan       $.'                       I     eSr      b
ircsis7zyv*, vaf7^e9opu7bev ,0, 0 <. ,. Lanzhou                                                                                                          -f fi h                                    Sea .
->17hl>s ornteXxuv  __    ~   thus         IA                  Zheng,h.ou
0007099000/00009 900                                                                                ~~~~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Xi'an  -
Oo,ooo009000070.ooooI         7'/1w                            "        ~~~For detal, see                                                       tC
'9'                                                11R[ 21793 0g \',  For det   see                               '         S    / Nanjing       honghai
A30   t/~r   - ,hw  /;Z'iloi'lG    -            _                              ' '     H(J/.F/           !     Hefei e                              /S/l
< NEPAL               [haso                                                 \&h Chenffri   u loi o_,uh gd.                                     Ynh -    Hangz
'\~- N E A L            Lha                                                       0                 /N.-,W an                     o >
<_              go-  , 90,R                                            5I(HlI't/'             3.                   )..7/"       iag         .J/oho?It/FJ//,A',
CHINA  (~                                                          0 S 'Nanchang
Changsha
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                           Guiyang              HUNA                    'FANI    A A' hon
PROJECT PROVINCES                                                                                      GIJIZHOUL                                                                                                   PA CVic
Project provinces                                  rKnig                                                                     7           -                                                        OCE'AN
0       Selected Towns                                                  YUNNAN                       GUANGX                     Guangzhou         JCEfN
0       Province Capitals                                                                               Nanning           J        0
National Capital                                                                                                                 O      KON,
Province Boundaries                                                          VIET NAMK                                                                For detail see
International Boundaries 7.7           <     <   <>Macao, Port.                                                                                 IB RD 22 129.
Ineraioa    Boundaries                              X                                                                   5O eOO  ]  ;  |  ^O  2   LAO   PEOPSouth    *     PHILIPPINES
|  MIES '  11    21  3      4UU                             MTHAILAN         DEM, REP.         )AINAA'                             ea
'2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                11'                                                                                                    190      909\3\









IMAGING
Report No:          1738
Type:      1CR



