Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
zZ   L  4F2.   -                   H   9         Report No. 8387-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
OCTOBER 9, 1990
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
Agricultural Operations Division
This document has a resticted dtibutdon ad may be used by recmients only In the perfonuan of
their officiiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Worid Bank authozation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Effective December 15, 1989)
Yuan (Y) 1.00           - USS 0.21
Y 4.72                  = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer       = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    = 2.47 acres
- 15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)   = 2.2 pounds (lb)
= 2 jin
1 ton (t)         = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMC         - Agricultural Bank of China
AMP         - Area Management Planning
BOC         - Bank of China
BOCOM       - Bank of Communications
CDC         - Citrus Development Center, Ganzhou
CIB         - China Investment Bank
CITIC       - China International Trust and Investment Corporation
CREC        - China Refrigeration Engineering Company
DRI         - Development Research Institute
EPA         - Environment Protection Agency
FTC         - Foreign Trade Corporations
FSR         - Financir. Sector Review
IBRD        - International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
ICBC        - Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
MOA         - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
NBFI        - Nonbank Financial Intermediaries
NGFAs       - Non-governmental Financial Institutions
ORREA       - Office of the Rural Reform Experimental Areas
PBC         - People's Bank of China
PCBC        - People's Construction Bank of China
PMCs        - Project Management Committees
PO          - Project Office
PU          - Project Unit
SAA         - State Audit Agency
SMCs        - Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
TCW         - Tianjin, Wuhan and Changchun (ABC Training Institutes)
TEG         - Technical Expert Group
TVEs        - Township and Village Enterprises
RCCs        - Rural Credit Cooperatives



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit/Loan and Project Summary ............ .. .................  (iv)
I.    BACKGROUND ..........     ................................      1
A. Intruduction ........      .............................     1
B. The Rural Sector .......      ..........................     1
C. Sectoral Objectives and Bank Group Operations .....          3
D. Experience with IDA Lending through ABC       ..........     4
E. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ..   ...........        5
II.  AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA (ABC).                                6
A. Reform of the Banking System and ABC.                        7
B. Rural Financial Market Reform.                               9
C. ABC: Institutional Aspects .10
D. ABC Operations .12
E. Overview .17
III. THE PROJECT AREAS    ..18
A. General .18
B. Climate and Land Use .19
C. Recent Agricultural Performance .20
D. Agricultural Support Services .21
IV. THE PROJECT .21
A. Objectives and Scope ......       .......................   21
B. Project Features .22
C. Crops .22
D. Livestock .25
E. Fisheries .27
F. Agro-processing .28
G. Technical Assistance ................ ............          29
H. Cost Estimates & Financing .......................          30
I. Procurement .31
J. Disbursement .33
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission and an appraisal
mission which visited China during August and November 1989 respectively. The
preappraisal mission included R. Deshpande. H. Kim, Bi Ming Jian (Bank Group) and C.
Cronberg, R. Zweig, P. Gilchrist, Paul Liou, W. Baier, and E. Bayer (Consultants).
The appraisal mission comprised of R. Deshpande, H. Kim, W. Wickrema, Bi Ming Jian
(Bank Group) C. Cronberg and D. Sheehy (Consultants). H. Eisa, W.P. Ting and L.S.
Tay (Bank Group) assisted the mission in the review of selected subprojects. Mr.
Hong Gao (Consultant) assisted in the financial and economic analysis.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................      34
A. Project Organization & Management ....   ............  34
B. Institutional development .....    ...................  37
C. Subproject Implementation .....    ...................  38
D. Project Beneficiaries  ......    .....................  38
E. Onlending Terms and Conditions .....   ..............  40
F.  Accounts  & Audit   .................................  42
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ....  .........   43
H. Environmental Effects ......    ......................  43
VI   MARKETS AND PRICES .......     ...........................  44
A.  Market  Prospects   .................................  44
B. Marketing Channels ......    .........................  46
C.  Prices   ........... ................................  47
VII  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS    .       .48
A. Production & Benefits .48
B. Employment, Income & Poverty Alleviation               49
C. Environmental Benefits .50
D. Financial Analysis .50
E. Economic Analysis .51
F. Project Risks .52
VIII AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .52
TABLES IN THE TEXT
4.1        Project Cost Summary
4.2        Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.   Table 1: Structural Change in the Rural Economy, 1982-88
ANNEX 2.   Table 1: Structure of the Financial System (1988)
Table 2: ABC Organization - National and in Project Areas
Table 3: Interest Rates on Deposits, Bonds and Interbank
Operations, 1982-90
Table 4: Interest Rates on Loans, 1982-90
Attachment 1: Financial Appraisal of ABC
Table 5: Consolidated Balance Sheet of ABC, 1986-89
Table 6: Coirsolidated Income Statements of ABC, 1986-89
Table 7: Maturity Structure of ABC's Loan Portfolio
Table 8: ABC's Loan Collection Performance, 1986-88
Table 9: Cunsolidated Balance Sheet of ABC's project
branches, 1986-88
Table 10:Consolidated Income Statements for ABC's project
branches, 1986-89



(iii)
Table 11: Consolidated Balance Sheet of RCCs, 1986-89
ANNEX 3.    Table 1: Basic data on Inner Mongolia, Jilin and Liaoning
Table 2: Basic data on Shaanxi, Jiangxi, Guangdong, and
Beijing
Table 3: Basic data on Hubei, Hunan, Fujian, and Guangxi
ANNEX 4.    Indicative Investment Program (by activity and province)
ANNEX 5.    Technical Guidelines: Apple Planting and Rehabilitation
ANNEX 6.    Technical Guidelines: Citrus Development in Jiangxi and
Guangdong
ANNEX 7.    Technical Guidelines: Green Tea Rehabilitation in Jiangxi
ANNEX 8.    Pasture-based Livestock Development: Area Management Planning (AMP):
Concept and Organizational Arrangements
ANNEX 9.    Technical Assistance for InstituLional Development of ABC
ANNEX 10.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 11.   Onlending Terms and Conditions and Criteria for Subloan
approval
ANNEX 12.   Table 1: Farm Gate Prices for Trade Inputs
Table 2: Selected Conversion Factors
ANNEX 13.   Financial and Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity
Analysis of selected subprojects (Tables 1 to 11)
ANNEX 14.   Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
Chart 1:    ABC's national organization
Chart 2:    ABC Head Office Organization
Chart 3:    Organization for Project Implementation
Chart 4:    Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 22151
IBRD 21792
IBRD 21793
IBRD 22129



(iv)
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
Amount:            IBRD Loan: US$ 75 million equivalent
IDA Credit: SDR 143.7 million (US$ 200 million equivalent)
Terms:             IBRD Loan: Repayable over 20 years including five years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable rate
IDA Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity
Onlending Terms:  (i) From Government to ABC: 15 years, including five years of
grace. On proceeds of Bank Group funds onlent to ABC in foreign
exchange, government to charge interest at the prevailing IBRD
rate or such other market-based rate acceptable to the Bank Group;
and on Bank Group funds onlent in Renminbi, at a non-subsidized
rate which shall be based on ABC's weighted average interest costs
of long-term domestic funds (currently at about 8Z); commitment
fee on IBRD Loan and IDA Credit (if any) to be borne by ABC;
(ii) From ABC to subborrowers: Interest at ABC's prevailing rates
currently ranging between 9.362 to 13.42 for one to ten year
loans; and 15-17Z for 10-12 year loans; when ABC uses RCCs, RCCs'
prevailing interest rates which are slightly higher than ABC
rates, will apply; interest spreads to ABCIRCCs on project lending
of at least 2.5Z p.a. (after payment of income and adjustment
taxes); subloan interest rates to remain positive in real terms;l/
(iii) Exchange risk: On proceeds of Bank Group funds onlent to ABC
in foreign exchange, ABC to bear exchange risk; on subloans
disbursed by ABC in foreign exchange, ABC to pass on the exchange
risk to subborrowers;
Proiect Obiectives
and Description:  The main objectives of the proposed project would be: (a) to
stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by financing
investments by farmers, collectives, and enterprises; and (b) to
promote efficiency of rural financial intermediation through
introduction of sound, market-oriented policies, and development
of the main institutions concerned with rural savings mobilization
and lending. ABC would use the project funds to provide subloans
to expand production of commercial agricultural products including
crops, livestock and fisheries, and for agroprocessing and
11 PBC prescribed rates effective as of August 21, 1990.



(v)
marketing facilities mainly in the Autonomous Region of Inner
Mongolia, five provinces of Shaanxi, Liaoning, Jilin, Jiangxi and
Guangdong, and Beijing municipality where ABC has already
appraised a substantial part of the lending program. ABC would
also use a part of the Bank Group assistance in other areas,
mainly those covered by earlier IDA-assisted credit projects
Including Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and the provinces of
Fujian, Hunan and Hubei. ABC's lending program would be flexible
so that it could change in response to subproject appraisals
including market and credit risk analysis.
The proposed project would also provide technical assistance
to ABC to continue its institutional development, focussing on
broader issues in financial management, loan policies and
procedures, management information system, and human resource
development, and make important contributions to special emphasis
areas including environment protection and poverty alleviation.
Benefits and Risks: At full development, the value of the project's incremental
output would be about $600 million per annum. The project would
help reduce seasonal unemployment and underemployment by
generating equivalent of 90,000 full-time jobs. No major risks
are anticipated in project-assisted investments and steps would be
taken to reduce institutional risks in lending operations.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
-------  (US $ million)------
Crops                    130.2        32.6      162.8
Livestock                113.4        28.4      141.8
Aquaculture               63.8         5.5        69.3
Agroprocessing & Mktg.  121.2         51.9       173.1
Technical Assistance       1.2         1.8         3.0
Total              429.8      120.2       550.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                      42.2        32.8       75.0
IDA                      112.6        87.4      200.0
ABC/RCCs                 110.9         0.0       110.9
Subborrowers             164.1         0.0      164.1
Total              429.8      120.2       550.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY          1991    1992    1993   1994   1995
Annual:     30.0    50.0    70.0   70.0   55.0
Cumulative: 30.0    80.0   150.0  220.0  275.0
Sconomic Rate of Return:   27?



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. Background
A. Introduction
1.1         The Government of China has requested an IBRD loan of US$75 million
equivalent and an IDA Credit of SDR 143.7 million (US$200 million equivalent) to
finance a Fourth Rural Credit Project proposed by the Agricultural Bank of China
(ABC). In line with the earlier three IDA-assisted operations with ABC, the main
objectives of the proposed project would be to stimulate growth and diversification
of agriculture by financing profitable investments by households, collectives and
enterprises, and to promote efficiency of rural financial intermediation through
introduction of sound policies and development of the main institutions concerned
with rural savings mobilization and lending. The project would finance mainly
investments in production and processing of high value-added food products in
accordance with profit-oriented decisions by local entities, based on recognized
local comparative advantage. The project would be placed through ABC in the context
of an ongoing broader dialogue with the government on financial sector policy and
development, and would support ABC to increase its institutional capabilities for
undertaking financial intermediation for real sector development more efficiently.
B. The Rural Sector
1.2         For the past decade, China's rural sector witnessed impressive growth
and structural change as a result of a package of economic reforms including the
introduction of the well-known production responsibility system (PRS), increased
producer prices and the enlarged role of the market (Annex 1. Table 1). During
1980-88, the rural economy grew by more than 10X p.a. or at least three times the
average rate for the previous 25 years. China's agriculture (including crops,
livestock, forestry and fisheries) provides sustenance to over one billion people
and is a major source of income to some 190 million farm families. Since only about
137 million ha of China's 960 million ha are arable, farming systems are intensive
with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers, and water. Nearly
half of the arable land is irrigated. Foodgrains account for about 80Z of the crop
land and about 65Z of the total output. This intensive system of food production
has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its population (about 22Z
of the world's total) from less than 11Z of the world's arable land.
1.3         While economic reforms have significantly revitalized the agricultural
sector, the government's central concern in recent years has been stagnating grain
production, which peaked at 407 million tons in 1984 (rising from 305 million in
1978), declined to 371 million tons in 1985, and which has thereafter ranged between
391-407 million tons. Adverse weather conditions and stronger incentives to farmers
to produce high-value nongrain crops, contributed to this decline. Recent
government strategies have focussed on stabilizing grain production through
irrigation expansion and rehabilitation, and introducing partial reforms in grain
procurement, distribution, prices and subsidies. Local governments in particular
have also placed high priority on investments in uplands, natural pastures, and
water surfaces for expanding production and productivity of nonstaple food and



2
commercial crops to meet the growing demand for these commodities, increase local
entity profits and farmer incomes, and help alleviate the pressure on the demand for
grains. Unlike in the past, government policy increasingly emphasizes that cropping
must be commercially oriented and matched with local agro-ecological conditions.
This has enabled China to achieve significant increases in the sown area,
productivity and output of major industrial crops including cotton, oilseeds,
fibers, silk and tea. Production of all major fruits including apple, citrus, and
pears has also recorded remarkable increases.
1.4          During the past decade, China's livestock production (pork, poultry,
beef and mutton) has more than doubled from 7.8 million tons to over 20 million
tons. Livestock accounts for about 27Z of the Gross Value of Agricultural Output
(GVAO) in 1988 compared to 15% in 1978. Besides producer incentives provided by the
economic reforms, this growth was made possible by breed improvement, increased feed
supply (through increased grain production), construction of processing and market
infrastructure and an improved network of veterinary services. Farmers are
increasingly recognizing the benefits of scientifically formulated feed. However,
feed supply has lagged behind demand especially in corn deficit provinces in the
south. This underscores the need to increase livestock production in the northeast
to limit exposure to high feed costs, and also alleviate the current constraints to
transporting corn from surplus regions of the northeast to the south. The
government also attaches high priority to the rehabilitation and modernization of
rangeland livestock production to reduce demand pressures on feedgrain, and relieve
the high incidence of poverty in the rangelands.
1.5         China is the largest producer of freshwater fish in the world and the
third largest fishing nation after USSR and Japan. Increases in marine production
have been achieved through innovative use of undeveloped inshore resources,
exploitation of new fishing grounds, development of high-sea and ocean-going
fisheries and artificial propagation of natural fishery resources. Major strides
have been made in expanding production of its culture fisheries (from 1 million tons
in 1978 to 4.4 million tons in 1988) by integrating fish farming with animal
husbandry, forestry, and grain production and by introducing cage culture in large
and medium-size lakes and rivulets. China's coastline, which provides 10 million ha
of tidal mud flat land is still marginally exploited (600,000 ha) and affords vast
scope to expand production of domestic species of prawns, scallops, and shell fish.
Much emphasis is being given to increase the proportion of high value fish in total
production, and develop fisheries in remote areas where fisheries infrastructure is
weak. The fisheries contribution to China's exports (about US$ 1 billion in 1989)
is increasing, dominated largely by prawns and shell fish.
1.6         China's agroindustrial enterprises generally process their own or
locally available raw materials from crop farming, livestock, fisheries and forestry
products to realize the benefits of value added by serving both domestic and export
markets. Some of the township and village enterprises (TVEs) have developed
industrial production such as manufacturing of construction materials, textiles,
food processing, carpet weaving, and leather processing. The improved policy
environment since 1979, especially the relaxed restrictions against nongovernmental
or private enterprises (an outgrowth of the production responsibility system)
contributed to a phenomenal growth of China's rural nonfarm commercial activities
and rural industry. The TVE sector's dynamism is reflected in its ability to take
advantage of market opportunities, diversity in institutional arrangements and



3
flexible management, competitiveness vis-a-vis the state sector, outward orientation
in terms of product markets, and strong community ties through ownership and other
linkages with local governments. An adequate legal and regulatory framework for
enterprise organization, management and operations is, however, still in the process
of evolution.
C. Sectoral Objectives and Bank Group Operations.
1.7          Given China's shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), development
planners have focussed on the need to increase the productivity of existing cropped
areas and develop efficiently the remaining underutilized land. Steps are being
taken to stabilize grain output, increase production and quality of animal feed,
livestock, fruit, and industrial crops, and promote agroprocessing to raise value-
added in the farm sector. In developing agroindustry, the government emphasis is on
introducing modern technology appropriate for domestic and export markets, promote
more efficient use of by-products, ensure protection of the environment and create
more nonagricultural jobs in rural areas to increase and sustain rural incomes and
alleviate poverty.
1.8         The Bank Group's lending to China's agricultural sector is designed to
support Government efforts to raise and diversify agricultural production through
more efficient use of land, water and labor resources and through improvement of
support services such as credit, research and agricultural education. Bank Group
agricultural lending to date has comprised 26 operations amounting to $2.6 billion
and has covered the full spectrum of geographic areas and subsectors, with an
overall focus on land development, irrigation, and drainage (5 projects), upgrading
agricultural support services including agricultural research, education, credit and
seeds improvement (7 projects), developing specialized subsectors including
forestry, rubber, livestock, fruits, and fisheries development (8 projects) and area
development projects (5 projects). In recent years, the Bank Group has supported a
series of provincial development projects in which an area development approach is
being applied, with responsibility for proposing and preparing the investment
proposals and repaying project funds resting with provincial and lower level
governments, thus supporting the increasing delegation of development planning and
implementation. The rural sector adjustment loan (Cr. 1932 CHA/Ln. 2967 CHA),
which was processed during 1988 (since completed), contributed to the articulation
and strengthening of the reform process.
1.9          Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group assisted projects in the
agricultural sector is on schedule. Physical works have been completed on time or
ahead of schedule. Disbursements for agricultural projects in China generally
outpace those in other countries and sectors. Notable features of all the projects
are the high standards of project management, enthusiastic participation of farmers
and the effective collaboration of government authorities at all levels. Two
projects which supported land development and agricultural intensification (North
China Plain Agriculture Project (Cr. 1261 CHA) and Heilongjiang Land Reclamation
Project (Loan 2261/Cr. 1347 CHA)) and the First Rural Credit Project (Cr. 1462 CHA:
para. 1.11) have been completed. The pro4ect completion reports for the two land
development projects indicated that project implementation was successful, the
economic rates of return reached or exceeded the appraisal estimates, and the
technology used for land development and drainage was sound and appropriate for
wider application.



4
D. Experience with IDA Lending through ABC
1.10          Rural Credit I, II and III projects (Cr. 1462, 1642, and 1871-CHA) were
designed to supplement ABC's longer term resources and assist in expanding medium-
and long-term lending to farm households and enterprises for investments in crops
(mainly tree crops), livestock, aquaculture and agroprocessing. The projects also
provided technical assistance for ABC's institutional development with a focus on
et,abling it to respond efficiently to its changing role from a fiscal agent of the
government to a more autonomous financial institution responsible for resource
mobilization and allocation. Implementation of the three projects has been
satisfactory. l/
1.11        Rural Credit I Project (FY84, $50 million) which financed ABC's credit
program in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, was fully disbursed in November 1988,
about six months ahead of the appraisal estimate. The IDA supervisions and the
project completion report (PCR) prepared by ABC and IDA, indicate that this project
made a significant contribution to the region's economy through increased
production, employment and incomes, and to Guangxi ABC's institutional development.
With this project, ABC introduced in Guangxi province internationally accepted
techniques of financial and economic analysis through a Project Appraisal Manual
prepared by ABC with assistance from IDA. ABC later used this manual for Rural
Credit II and III projects and as a teaching material in its national training
institutes. The project also helped Guangxi ABC to secure local technical bureaus'
assistance in introducing sound technical standards and extension support for ABC-
financed investments, and upgrade credit management techniques including subproject
supervision, follow-up, and risk management. The project financed training of some
11,200 staff in investment appraisal techniques, monitoring and evaluation (M & E),
accounting, and general banking, with about forty staff receiving overseas training.
The financial rates of return for project-assisted investments, recalculated for
PCR, were close to the appraisal estimate of 25%, while ERRs ranged between 17Z-26Z,
slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 27Z due to changes in international
prices of some of the project inputs and outputs. ABC's subloan collection
performance under Rural Credit I project has been higher than that for its lending
outside the project: with collection of principal due exceeding 100Z (ranging
between 942 for agroprocessing, 115% for livestock, and 135-1402 for crops and
aquaculture). Overall, Rural Credit I was a successful project with considerable
demonstration effects on branches in other provinces.
1.12        Rural Credit II project (FY86, $90 million) assisted ABC's lending in
the provinces of Hunan and Fujian and provided technical assistance for staff
l/ A similar type of project assisted by an International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) loan of $25 million (FY84) was implemented by ABC in
Hubei province. The project was completed in November 1989. A final supervision
report and PCR prepared by the Bank Group noted that both real sector and
institutional development components of the project were successfully implemented.
The project's institutional development component focussed on improved subproject
appraisal and management from which ABC's other lending outside the project also
benefitted. The PCR concluded that future rural credit projects should focus on
upgrading ABC's overall financial management and lending program planning.



5
development in the two provinces. This project, as for Rural Credit I, is likely to
be fully disbursed about six months ahead of the appraisal estimate (December 1990).
Major investments financed included fruit, coastal and inland fisheries, feed mills
and other agroprocessing activities needed by local economies. As in Rural Credit
I, the project encouraged local technical bureaus to strengthen support services to
farmers and ABC to improve its subproject appraisal.
1.13         The Rural Credit III project (FY88. $90 nmillion) is much broader in
geographical coverage (six provinces of Guizhou, Sichuan, and Yunnan in the
southwest and Anhui, Henan and Hubei in north central region), as well as in the
scope of the institutional development component. It is financing investments in
tree crops (rubber, tea and fruits), livestock (pigs, cattle, sheep and goat),
fisheries (mainly cage fisheries) and a broad mix of agroprocessing investments.
The institutional development program focuses on strengthening ABC's nationwide, in-
house training capability through training of trainers at ABC's national and lower
level colleges, and training of project-related staff in the six provinces. The
project has also supported preparation of technical manuals on sheep production and
agroprocessing; and studies in ABC operations and system reforms (including deposit
mobilization, credit planning, lending policies and procedures, enterprise
financing, transaction costs of ABC lending, development of rural credit
coopetatives) which have been used for designing the institutional development
component of the proposed project. Concurrently with these studies, ABC also
completed a nationwide review of its loan portfolio to establish a basis for
improved financial management.
1.14        Experience with the first three Rural Credit projects showed that ABC's
mainstream credit departments should be involved more actively in project
implementation instead of leaving this task entirely to its International Business
Department, to increase the project's impact on ABC's overall institutional
development; ABC should build up core technical capabilities within its organization
or have access to independent consultant services, to upgrade the quality of
technical supervision of subproject implementation instead of relying entirely on
government technical bureaus; and ABC should have greater flexibility and authority
to change subloan interest rates to ensure that they remain consistent with general
increases in interest rates in the economy, and positive in real terms. These
aspects are being addressed through the ongoing Rural Credit III and the proposed
project.
E. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.15        ABC is a specialized bank for China's rural sector, undertaking mainly
commercial banking functions. Through its nationwide network of branches and
business relationship with township level rural credit cooperatives (RCCs), ABC has
the capability of reaching deep into rural areas for resource mobilization and real
sector development. Using this unique status, ABC is in the process of increasing
its long term lending for rural sector development. Also, as a part of ongoing
developments, the role of the government budget in financing commercial investments
in agriculture and agroindustry (among others) is rapidly decreasing, with the
banking system assuming a predominant role in the mobilization of financial savings



6
and channeling of those savings to efficient investments. 2/ Accordingly, ABC is
introducing a series of system reforms and human resource development programs to
increase its capabilities to expand and efficiently administer investment credit, in
addition to its traditional commercial banking functions including provision of
short-term working capital loans. The past IDA-assisted projects are assisting ABC
in this effort by introducing financial, economic, technical and enterprise
appraisal criteria in provinces chosen for project implementation and to rapidly
spread their use in ABC's entire organization through training of trainers in
national and provincial institutes, and of senior credit staff (para. 1.13). ABC
being mainly a commercial bank with expanding resources, it has the capacity to
provide a portion of deposit funds for longer term investment lending (currently
about 152), and also the financial resilience needed to manage a long term loan
portfolio. ABC thus provides itself as a satisfactory financial intermediary for
Bank Group assistance, both for rural financial sector development and real sector
development. ABC is also an important institution for the Bank Group-assisted
agricultural development projects other than credit projects, in which ABC is
usually responsible for management of project funds and cost recovery.
1.16          The Bank Group has been assisting China, through sector work and
lending operations, in developing a coherent strategy for financial sector
development. 3/ The Bank's recent Financial Sector Review report (June 1990)
recommended institutional development of specialized banks as one of the key areas
that must be addressed, which this project aims to do for ABC and its affiliate
rural credit cooperatives (RCCs). As for the project's investment program, the Bank
Group assistance would support diversification and productivity improvements in
agriculture and agroindustry, with emphasis on technology transfer, environment
protection, export promotion, employment creatiun, increasing rural incomes, and
poverty alleviation.
II. AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
A. Reform of the Banking System and ABC
2.1         Background.  The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) was reestablished in
1979 to take over rural banking functions from the People's Bank of China (PBC).
This was the first major initiative which the government took to begin restructuring
of the country's monobank system which was organized in the 1950s to serve the
specific needs of a centrally planned economy. Under the monobank system, the PBC
2/ The proportion of bank loans in financing China's domestic fixed
investments (including investments by SOEs, collectives, and individuals),
increased from 12.72 in 1981 to 20.3Z in 1988 and that of budget declined from
28.1? to 9Z. The share of retained earnings and extrabudgetary funds
increased from 55.5Z to 65Z.
3/    The World Bank, "China: Finance and Investment' and "Financial
Sector Review: Financial Policy and Institutional Reforms", Reports Nos. 6445
dated June 11, 1987 and 8415-CHA dated June 29, 1990. The main
recommendations of the recent Financial Sector Review are discussed in Chapter
II, para. 2.4.



7
and two other specialized banks, namely the Bank of China (BOC) and the People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC) acted primarily as fiscal agents (cashiers) to the
Government, transferring budgetary funds to state enterprises in accordance with the
state plan. Clearly, this narrow role was unsuited to the government's new economic
reform program which focussed on decentralizing investment decision-making, and
shifting much of the budgetary (grant) financing to bank (loan) financing. The
government, therefore, began in 1979, but more concertedly since 1985, the reform of
the banking system to expand its role in resource mobilization and allocation. 4/
2.2         Generally, the government's banking refonms aimed at establishing the
role of the People's Bank of China (PBC) as the central bank of the country with
responsibility for monetary policy and for supervisory powers over retail banks
previously administered by MOF; at greater competition among the specialized banks
to improve efficiency of their operations; opening new full service banks and trust
and investment corporations to broaden the financial market; improving the range of
financial services, instruments and access to clients; and initiating a process of
transforming the specialized banks from government administrative organs into
enterprises fully responsible for their profit and loss.
2.3          The scope of the banking reforms has been wide-ranging although their
impact on raising the overall efficiency of the banking system has yet to achieve
its full potential. In 1981, the government established the China Investment Bank
for financing industrial enterprises. 5/ In 1984, coinciding with the launching of
the industrial reforms, the government established another specialized bank, the
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), to take over PBC's urban banking
functions, as ABC did in 1979 in regard to rural banking functions (Annex 2, Table
1). This was followed by the establishment in 1987 of two multi-functional banks
(BOCOM and CITIC Industrial Bank). Investment banking and trust operations which
started in 1979 with CITIC have significantly expanded since, with 15 regional and
some 600 smaller financial corporations now operating in the country. Along with
61,000 rural credit cooperatives (reorganized in the 1950s) as the main banking
institutions in the countryside, the government has permitted households and
enterprises to establish cooperative banking institutions in urban areas to
supplement the services provided by the specialized banks. Some 3300 urban credit
cooperatives have so far been set up in major cities. Besides this major structural
expansion and diversification, the specialized banks (including ABC) introduced,
during the past six years, new financial instruments such as bonds, stocks,
certificates of deposit, commercial bills (in selected cities), and inter-bank and
inter-branch borrowings for developing regional and national money markets.
2.4         Recent Bank Group Review of China's Financial Sector.   The Bank Group's
recent Financial Sector Review (FSR) indicated that the steps taken during 1978-89
helped the emergence of a broader financial market providing alternative financing
sources for government, enterprises, households, and financial institutions. Taken
41  For a discussion on China's financial sector reform, see Bank Group
reports referred in para. 1.17.
5/  CIB has been an implementing agency for five industrial credit projects
involving total Bank Group assistance of $945.6 million (Ln./Cr. 2226/1313, 2434/1491,
1663/2659, 1763/2783 and Ln. 3075)



8
together, the reforms have helped to provide alternatives, first to budgetary
financing of enterprises and, second, to the reliance of enterprises on the
specialized banking system. However, the ten years of reform and deepening have
been less than fully successful in changing the bank-only structure of the financial
system and in fostering competition among financial institutions. Although the role
of interest rates in resource mobilization and allocation has considerably increased
since 1979, the annual investment and credit plans still remain the main vehicle for
credit allocation. Additional reforms are needed to enable banks to become full
financial intermediaries, in the following key areas.
(a) The Banking Law. A comprehensive banking law should be introduced
defining the operations of all institutions in the financial sector including the
central bank (PBC), specialized and other banks, Trust and Investment Corporations
(TICs) and other intermediaries. This law should also focus on prudential
regulations to ensure safety, soundness and stability of the financial system;
(b) Strengthening Bank Management. The second major area essential for
sectoral development is the strengthening of bank management which should be
achieved through clearly defined financial objectives linked to management
incentives, greater autonomy over lending decisions and greater flexibility in the
establishment of interest rates on loans and deposits, and further strengthening of
credit rist; management, internal audit, and financial management including
replenishment of bank capital to enable the write-off of accumulated bad debts.
(c) Competition and Mix of Financial Institutions. Competition is another
important ingredient of financial sector development, which can be enhanced by
increasing the range of financial services offered by the sector, and by allowing
entry of new institutions into the financial system through removing intra-industry
entry barriers. In order to expand the financial sector in a safe and sound manner,
sufficient prudential regulation and supervision would be essential.
(d) Monetary, Credit and Interest Rate Policies. To achieve its growth and
inflation objectives, monetary policy tools should be further strengthened.
Specifically, the scope of credit plans should be substantially broadened to cover
all sectors of the economy including the government; over time, credit ceilings and
controls should be replaced by further reliance on indirect methods such as interest
rate and reserve ratio changes; while at the present time, it is not feasible to
replace the existing system of administered rates by a system based on market rates,
further improvements in the levels and structure of interest rates should be
introduced to promote greater demand for financial instruments and improve
allocative efficiency; interest rates (both for deposits and loans) should be
adjusted more automatically and regularly, on the basis of inflation trends and
expectations; lending rates should provide adequate spreads over the banks' cost of
funds; and differences among interest rates for different purposes and maturities
should be rationalized to avoid creating distortions in resource allocation.
In response to these Bank Group recommendations, MOF and PBC, the main
agencies responsible for financial sector development, have begun preparation of a
technical assistance project for Bank Group assistance, which is expected to focus
on reforms in six specific areas including the payments system, bank supervision,
accounting of financial institutions, legal framework for banks, strengthening of
PBC's research department and PBC's fiscal agency and market regulation role.



9
Against this background, the proposed project would be placed through a financial
intermediary in the context of a broader sector dialogue with the government while
advancing important sustainable development programs in agriculture. The project
was thus appraised keeping in view the financial sector review findings; and its
financial covenants and technical assistance component have been designed to advance
the review's recommendations as they pertain to ABC.
B. Rural Financial Market Reform
2.5          Rural Financial Institutions.  Recent banking reforms have benefitted
the urban sector more than the rural sector. Some of the major reforms have been
introduced mainly in larger cities and selected regions (special economic zones).
leaving a large part of the rural financial system still untouched. ABC with its
nationwide network of branches down to township level, and affiliate RCCs which
operate at the township level and below (para. 2.3) continue to be the principal
constituents of China's official rural financial system. RCCs, which are
collectively owned by farmers, play a pivotal role in providing banking services to
rural households. 6/ Over 80% of all farm households have become RCC members. RCCs
accept savings and time deposits and lend to individuals and rural enterprises.
Deposits of individual farmers with RCCs have risen very rapidly reflecting the
growth in rural incomes and now account for 82% of RCC's total deposits of Y149
billion. RCCs are required to redeposit about 12-20% (reduced from 20-30Z over the
past three years) of their total deposits with ABC as a reserve against their
deposit liabilities; as of December 31, 1988, RCCs' reserve deposits with ABC
amounted to Y28 billion (8% of ABC's total resources), and together with RCCs'
deposits of surplus funds (Y29 billion), RCC system's total funds with ABC amounted
to Y57 billion (38Z of RCCs' total resources and about 17% of ABC's total
resources). 7/
2.6         China's rural financial market, however, is rapidly becoming dualistic
in nature with the emergence of informal monetary transactions between households
and enterprises, and establishment of nongovernmental financial associations (NGFAs)
or credit unions which accept deposits from and provide credit to their members. In
China, informal (noninstitutional) credit transactions in the form of usury are
illegal. However, with the spread of economic reforms, especially the shift from
the communal to the household (family) production system, and the establishment of
numerous TVEs and private businesses, the demand for financial services (deposit
taking and provision of credit) has enormously increased, which the official rural
financial system (ABC and RCCs) have been unable to fully satisfy despite their
major expansion and diversification. The Bank Group has been assisting China in the
review of two Regional Reform Programs for NGFAs, through the Rural Sector
6I     The current status of the RCC system and ABC's role in RCC development are
reviewed in Annex 9 and the consolidated Balance Sheet of the RCC system is given in
Annex 2, Table 11.
7/  Provisional data indicate that as of December 31, 1989, RCC deposits with
ABC at Y65.8 billion accounted for about 25Z of RCCs' total deposits and 17% of ABC's
total resources.



10
Adjustment Loan (para. 1.8). 8/ These experiments have indicated that to develop a
viable non-governmental financial market, it is required to establish a legal
framework for registration, ownership and management of NGFAs. The Bank Group will
continue to monitor and advise on this process through rural financial sector work
and lending operations with the government, but it would obviously require some time
for China's NGFAs to become suitable intermediaries for large-scale agricultural
development programs. The government has agreed to carry out with the Bank Group, a
study of rural investment and finance as a part of this project (para. 4.26).
C. Agricultural Bank of China: Institutional Aspects
2.7         Objectives and Functions.  ABC is a national institution, with the main
task of mobilizing rural savings and provision of loans for agriculture and rural
development. It is the second largest specialized bank accounting for over a quarter
of the total assets of all the specialized banks (Annex 2, Table 1). ABC acts as a
banker and financial agent to the national and lower levels of the government, and
manages state funds allocated for agriculture, including for procurement of grains
and other products for the government and management of major poverty alleviation
programs. In addition, under the authority delegated by PBC, ABC supervises RCC
operations and manages their deposit reserve funds. ABC provides financial guidance
to collectives and TVEs, and supervises their cash and working capital management.
With the reduced role of the government budget in financing investments of a
conmercial nature, rural enterprises are increasingly relying upon ABC to provide
longer term loans to them for financing fixed assets and machinery and equipment.
2.8         Organization, Staffing, and Training.  ABC is represented at all
administrative levels down to townships (Chart 1). At the end of 1988, ABC had 29
provincial (or equivalent level) offices with the Head Office located in Beijing;
303 central subbranches at the prefecture level; 209 business offices in major urban
centers; 2173 subbranches at the county level; about 30,045 business offices at the
township level; and 17,182 savings offices mainly in townships and villages, state
farms, and enterprises financed by ABC. ABC plans to convert its Head Office and
provincial level branch offices, which currently function mainly as administrative
offices, into regular banking offices primarily to provide improved access to lower
level branches to broader financial markets, to undertake foreign exchange business,
and to tap urban deposits (Annex 2, Table 2).
2.9         ABC functions under the general administrative guidance of MOF which is
the sole contributor to its equity (capital or credit funds). On monetary policies
including credit planning and interest rates, ABC is governed by the policies set by
PBC. ABC's Head Office is primarily responsible for formulation of national and
regional policies and procedures concerning ABC's business including credit
planning, resource mobilization, loan approval and collection, accounting and audit,
consolidation of balance sheet and income and expenditure accounts, profit
allocation, staff training and computerization. ABC HQ staff often visit the
provincial and lower level offices and actively participate in the local reviews
concerning ABC's business goals and operations. Provincial and prefecture level
8/      The World  Bank,  "China: Rural  Sector Adjustment  Loan",  Loan
Implementation Volume (II), Working Paper No. 7: A Review of Rural Financial
Markets and Institutions.



11
branches play a crucial role in ABC operations: these offices are responsible for
preparing business goals for areas under their jurisdiction and liaising with local
governments for credit planning, resource mobilization, grain procurement plans,
rural development funds management, and supervision and auditing of the county and
lower level offices which handle most of ABC's banking business.
2.10         ABC's Head Office has 18 main departments, including Agricultural and
Commercial Credit; Industrial Credit; Planning; Funds Mobilization; Finance and
Accounting; Personnel; Staff Training; General Administration; Audit and
Supervision; Systems Reform; Research; International Business; and Trust and
Investment operations (Chart 2). Organized along the lines of the Head Office, the
provincial and prefecture level offices have fewer departments depending upon the
local needs.
Z.ll        ABC operates under the direction of a president who is generally chosen
from among the presidents of ABC's provincial branches. He is assisted by the
President's Council comprising himself and Vice Presidents (4). Most policy
decisions are taken collectively in the President's Council. The President's
appointment is made by the State Council on the recommendation of MOF; he usually
has the rank of a deputy minister. According to government employment regulations,
provincial ABC Presidents are formally appointed by local governments but these
appointments require prior approval of ABC headquarters.
2.12        To handle the expanding volume of business, ABC staff has increased from
about 387,000 in 1986 to 444,000 in 1988, which compared to the strength in 1979
(183,000) has more than doubled (Annex 2, Table 2). ABC staff at the Head Office,
provincial and prefecture level branches is small (about 500, 6250, and 22,000
respectively) indicating the decentralized character of the bank. Much of the staff
increase has been in county, business and savings offices. Recruitment of staff is
handled mainly at the county and provincial levels from four major sources
including: public recruitment (usually from middle and senior school graduates)
through entrance examinations organized by the state; from universities, colleges
and junior colleges (through interviews but no written examinations); demobilized
servicemen assigned to ABC by the government; and staff nominated by local
government agencies which need specialized services from ABC. The proportion of
staff recruited from universities and professional colleges is increasing in recent
years (Annex 2, Table 2). ABC is relatively a young institution: age-wise, about
52Z of ABC staff is less than 30; 22Z between 31-40; 142 between 41-50, 72 between
51-55 and 42 between 56-60.
2.13         About 124,000 or 282 of ABC's total staff (444,000) are women and some
802 Gf them hold professional titles. They hold important positions in ABC
including general managers (5), presidents/vice presidents at the provincial level
(6), division chiefs (192), section chiefs (2300), and professionals (98,000).
2.14        Training of staff poses a major challenge for ABC management because of
their diverse education levels and background. All staff including those seconded
by the military receive a minimum of three months in-service or pre-service
training. University and college graduates who usually possess skills and
professional qualifications in accounting, finance and banking are assigned for
field work of 1-2 years before they are appointed to regular positions. ABC places
high priority on the training of its professional staff. It has established 170



12
banking schools, 55 secondary vocational schools, 112 staff training schools, and 3
RCC secondary vocational schools for upgrading the general standard of education of
ABC and RCC staff. The three national training colleges at Tianjin, Changchun
(Jilin), and Wuhan (Hubei) primarily train teachers for lower level schools and
senior managers in more advanced finance, accounting and banking courses. ABC also
makes use of broad programs available through local colleges, the People's Bank of
China and Television University.
2.15         In 1988, ABC became the first among China's specialized banks to
introduce on a nationwide basis a contract system which linked profit retention by
branches and bonuses to staff to performance indicators relating to preset business
goals. The contract system though not perfected yet, is an important step toward
transforming ABC into an independent economic entity. Under the contract system,
ABC management agrees with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on a number of targets
including the annual income-tax to be paid. If ABC exceeds the agreed targets, it
can retain up to 90Z of the excess profits to build up its business development
funds and pass on a part of the profits to employees through higher bonuses. The
government, however, does not yet allow ABC to retrench nonperformers and redundant
staff or even transfer them to other branches. Lack of labor mobility and social
welfare perquisites, which are general characteristics of the economy, have
constrained ABC's effort to improve in-house productivity up to the desired level.
2.16        ABC organization in project areas.  In all the provinces, ABC's
organizational structure is similar: a branch office at the provincial capital,
central subbranches at prefecture (league) level, subbranches at the county levels
supported by a network of business and savings offices at the level of townships and
the state farms. ABC's organization and staffing in the six project provinces and
Beijing municipality where the bulk of the 3roject-assisted lending program would be
implemented are shown in Annex 2, Table 2. / Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi, Guangdong and
Jiangxi have, based on their administrative structure, a relatively larger network
of county level offices (80-105) compared to Jilin and Liaoning (45-55). The number
of business and savings offices which undertake lending operations and savings
mobilization at centers below the county level is also larger in Guangdong (2,917),
followed by Jiangxi (2,232), Liaoning (2,101), Shaanxi (1,818), Jilin (1,446), and
Inner Mongolia (1,404). ABC Beijing covering a relatively small geographical area
has 167 field offices. ABC offices in the above six project provinces and Beijing
employ about 110,000 staff ranging from 27,800 in Guangdong to 13,580 in Shaanxi
(and about 4440 in Beijing).
D. ABC Operations
2.17        ABC's Financial Appraisal.  Annex 2, Attachment 1, briefly presents the
financial appraisal of ABC and reviews recent trends in ABC's financial structure
and performance. The proposed project specifically focusses on making improvements
in ABC's financial management and in support of this effort, the Bank Group arranged
9/ Details of ABC's organization in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, and
Fujian, Hunan and Hubei provinces are available in Staff Appraisal Reports nos.
4849-CHA dated April 9, 1984, 5810-CHA dated November 25, 1985 and 6903-CHA dated
December 28, 1987. In line with national trends, the business and staffing at
these branches have substantially increased.



13
a financial appraisal of ABC's operations in two representative provinces, namely
Jiangxi and Liaoning (both included in the project) through a consulting group from
France. lo/ The main objective of the financial appraisal was to update the Bank
Group's understanding of the recent developments in ABC operations, to reconfirm
ABC's financial solvency given the recent deflation of the Chinese economy, to
identify specific problem areas that must receive government's and ABC management's
attention, and outline specific measures that ABC should take to upgrade its
financial management. This work was supplemented by ABC's in-house studies
(initiated under ongoing Rural Credit III project) which addressed key aspects of
ABC's operations. Concurrently with the studies, ABC also launched in 1987 a
nationwide review of its (and the RCC system's) total loan portfolio, which was
completed during 1989 with reference to outstanding loan balances as of December 31,
1988. Preliminary findings of ABC's loan portfolio review have been used to
determine ABC's financial condition (para 2.27).
2.18         Lending Policies.   ABC's annual lending targets are set by credit plans
prepared by ABC on the basis of proposals received from the grassroots levels, and
approved by the People's Bank, MOF, SPC and the Stat_ Council (para. 2.7). The
credit plan mechanism is a part of the government's budgetary processes and is
required to be prepared by all financial institutions. Using the credit plans
submitted by individual banks and taking into consideration the government's
objectives for GNP growth, inflation, investment, and fiscal deficit, PBC puts
together the annual credit plan for the financial system as a whole for approval by
the State Council. Within the limits set by this credit plan, however, ABC has
considerable flexibility in approving individual subloans to respond to micro-level
situations. ABC also enjoys powers to reject a loan request even if it is a part of
the credit plan. In order to ensure economic rationality in lending decisions, ABC
has placed during the last two years, strong emphasis on upgrading loan approval and
credit risk management procedures. One of the important objectives of the proposed
project is, therefore, to strengthen ABC institutionally to handle these processes
effectively and minimize the rigidities or distortions that may be produced in an
environment of 'directed credit" in which banks in China still operate.
2.19        ABC has diverse mandates from the government, including provision of
funds for procurement of grains, cotton, rapeseed and other products for the
government distribution system. This accounts for almost 60Z of ABC's annual
lending. The main beneficiaries include grain bureaus and supply and marketing
cooperatives (SMCs). ABC loans for investment and production in agriculture and
rural industry are extended mainly to local collectives (e.g. village and township
cooperatives), state farms, TVEs, joint ventures and state-owned enterprises in the
rural sector; its direct lending to individual households, which mainly deal with
RCCs, is relatively small. ABC also handles, on an agency basis, the national
government's poverty alleviation funds.
2.20        ABC has established comprehensive procedures for subloan approvals at
10/ The consultants' report and draft reports on ABC's six in-house studies are
available on project file. The ABC study reports would require further collaboration
which would be done at the financial management symposium which ABC would organize in
March 1991 as a part of the proposed project's technical assistance component (para.
4.25).



14
all levels which include: loan applications by subborrowers indicating the purpose
of the loan, subloan guarantors, recommendations of sponsoring agencies and the
benefit-cost analysis of the proposed investment. ABC's internal processes involve
review and recommendations by the credit, accounting and legal departments, which is
followed by an on-site inspection to verify the legal status and credit-worthiness
of a subborrower, financial performance of ongoing activities, performance prospects
of the proposed activity and availability of minimum down payment (normally 30%, but
now increased to 50% in some cases).
2.21        As a part of the process of decentralization in decision-making
initiated by economic reforms, ABC branches have considerably more authority
regarding lending decisions than they did several years ago: county level offices
can approve subloans up to Y2 million (US$425,000), central sub-branches (prefecture
level) up to Y5 million (US$1.06 million), and provincial branches, up to Yl0
million (US$2.12 million). All subloans above Y 10 million are referred to the
headquarters for prior approval or post-approval information (on a no-objection
basis), depending upon the purpose of loan and source of funds. ABC subloans are
guaranteed in the case of individual households, by village leaders; in the case of
collectives, by joint and several guarantees from the members of the collective; in
the case of TVEs, by local governments or other profit-making enterprises in the
locality; in the case of state farms, by the state farm bureaus (only for fixed
asset loans); and in the case of state-owned enterprises, by the sponsoring bureau.
2.22        Interest Rates.  Interest rates on deposits and loans are set by PBC, in
consultation with the government (MOF). PBC's current interest rate policy is
designed to serve multiple goals with emphasis on promoting financial savings and
reducing the investment rate in the economy to contain inflationary pressures.
Generally, PBC sets the lending rates on the basis of average cost of resources to
financial intermediaries, priority of credits, and the expected transaction costs of
financial intermediation. However, in spite of the series of adjustments since
1979, interest rates per se are still not powerful instruments of credit
allocation, and the annual credit plans remain the main vehicles for channeling
credit to various activities. At this stage of China's financial market
development, replacing the existing system of administered interest rates by a
system based on market forces is not feasible but clearly improvements in the
structure of interest rates are possible, and are under consideration of the
government (paras. 1.17 and 2.4). As the credit plan mechanism would remain a
dominant tool for resource allocation in the Chinese economy at least in the medium-
term, upgrading of lending decision-making processes in the banks must receive high
priority, which the proposed project aims to do in ABC. With the interest rate
revisions in September 1988, the government for the first time introduced the system
of indexation of deposits and bonds with maturities of three years and more which
had a positive effect on sustaining the level of deposits with the banking system.
This revision was followed by major increases in interest rates on deposits in
February 1989. Lending rates which were also concurrently increased were, however,
negative for much of 1938-89 but the success of the anti-inflationary effort has
again placed the interest rate structure on the positive side. The inflation rate
during the last quarter of 1989 was about 7.4% while for 1990, the projected annual
inflation rate would be about 4X. In April and August 1990, PBC, therefore, lowered
the interest rates on deposits by 0.5Z-4Z and on loans by about 2Z-8Z p.a. (Annex 2,
Tables 3 and 4).



15
2.23        Demand deposits now earn about 2.16% annually and time deposits from
6.482 for a six-month deposit to 13.682 for deposits with eight-year maturity.
Loans up to one year maturity carry an interest rate of 9.36%, while loans over one
year to three years, 10.082, three to five years, 10.80%; five to ten years, 11.16%,
and over ten years at a rate based on compound interest for one year loans which
ranges from 17% for eleven year loans to 20Z for fifteen year loans. Agricultural
development loans currently carry low rates of 9.362 to 10.82 but ABC enjoys
flexibility to charge higher rates, generally 20% above the prescribed rate/s for
all loans and 30-50Z over the prescribed rates, if necessary, to cover deposit
indexation costs. Interest rates over three years to ten years could range between
10.08% to 13.4%, ABC is currently able to fully cover its overheads including
deposit indexation costs. However, adequacy of interest spreads to sustain ABC's
profitability, and increase its ability to make provisions for bad debts would be
closely monitored under the proposed project (para.2.30).
2.24         Sources and Uses of Funds.  ABC's deposit mobilization during the past
decade has been impressive, comparable with overall trends in the financial system
and the growth in China's domestic savings rate which increased from 31% of GNP in
1980 to over 38% in 1987. Annex 2, Attachment 1 provides the analysis of ABC's
sources and uses of funds for 1986-88. 11/ As of December 31, 1988, ABC's total
resources at Y318.9 billion included deposits, Y171.3 billion (53.8%), loans from
PBC, Y99.4 billion (31.2Z), MOF contribution, Y24.5 billion (7.6%), and others
(including retained profits and fixed assets fund), Y23.6 billion (7.42). Major
sources of deposits were: individuals, Y59.4 billion (34.62), supply and marketing
cooperatives, Y25.3 billion (15%), rural credit cooperatives, Y28.7 billion (16.7Z),
RCC reserve fund for deposits, Y 27.8 billion (Y16.22), state farms, Y9.2 billion
(5Z), TVEs, Y6.2 billion (3.6X), industrial enterprises, Y2.89 billion (2Z), and
collectives, Y1.5 billion (0.9%).
2.25        ABC's annual subloan disbursements in nominal terms increased from Y329
billion in 1986 to Y509 billion in 1988; in real terms the increase was about 41%.
ABC's total outstanding loans at the end of 1988 amounted to Y263.15 billion,
compared to Y199 billion in 1986 and Y232 billion in 1987, increasing nominally at
an annual average rate of 152. Short term loans to supply and marketing
cooperatives and grain bureaus account for 49% of the total loans followed by loans
to TVEs at Y40.7 billion (15Z), industrial enterprises Y15.4 billion (4.8%), state
farms, Y13.4 billion (5%). Overall, about 80% of ABC loans are for short term
working capital or procurement purposes. Its longer term loans, mainly for
agricultural infrastructure development and TVEs have grown from about 9% of cotal
loan portfolio in 1986 to 112 in 1987.
2.26         Structure of Assets and Liabilities.  ABC's short-term assets account
for nearly 78% of its total assets and longer term resources exceed longer term
investments by more than twice (Annex 2, Attachment 1, para. 2). Liquid assets
account for about 9.52 of total assets. While ABC was able to maintain a
11/    Comments on ABC's financial position relate to December 31, 1988,
based on financial statements that were available at the time of the project
appraisal in November 1989.  During negotiations, ABC provided its financial
statements for 1989, which have been incorporated in Annex 2, Tables 5 and 6.



16
satisfactory liquidity position during the past three years, it was clearly tighter
in 1988 compared to 1986 as a result of stricter credit policies, which required ABC
branches to make more efficient use of available resources (Annex 2, Attachment 1,
para. 2(iv)).
2.27         Loan portfolio Assessment.  After two years of effort, ABC completed in
1989, the enormous task of assessing, loan-by-loan, the quality of its total loan
portfolio and thus began the proct-ss of cleaning its balance sheet by segregating
nonperforming assets, introducing specific measures to collect, restructure and
write off nonperforming assets, and upgrade overall financial management and
profitability (Annex 2, Attachment 1, paras. 11-18). The review focussed on
collection of overdue loans and arrear interest through legal actions, sale of
mortgaged properties, requiring sponsoring agencies to honor their loan guarantees,
and by providing incentives and rewards to subborrowers and staff. Preliminary
estimates indicate that bad (or irrecoverable) loans accumulated since 1979 would
amount to about 3X of the total outstanding loans as of December 31, 1988 or about
Y8 billion. It is estimated that in addition to this amount about Y5 billion, or
roughly 30-402 of sticky loans (i.e.loans in arrears over two years as of December
1988) might go bad over the next several years and should be provided for (Annex 2,
Attachment 1, para. 14).
2.28        Until recently, by government policv, China's banks including ABC were
not allowed to make any explicit provisions for bad debts. The banks usually
transferred their annual profits to the budget, retaining relatively small amounts
for staff welfare (bonus), business development and transfer to credit funds
(equity). In the past, the banks generally wrote off bad debts directly by using
the credit funds or seeking specific budgetary contributions. This situation is now
changing as the banks have begun to change from primarily administrative agencies
into independent economic entities. Recent government guidelines allow specialized
banks to make provision for bad and doubtful debts at the rate of 0.1% to 0.2Z of
outstanding loans. In 1988, ABC for the first time, made an explicit provision of
Y300 million for bad debts.
2.29          At the currently low rates of 0.1-0.2% of outstanding loans, it would
take several years for ABC to build up the funds necessary to write off the
accumulated bad debts. ABC and the government must, therefore, find other ways to
make provisions including recapitalization of ABC. Currently, (given the
fungibility of resources) bad debts can be assumed to have been financed from MOF's
contribution to credit fund (equity) of Y 26 billion (inclusive of retained
earnings). If the accumulated bad debts estimated at about Y13 billion (about 5Z of
the total outstanding loans) are notionally written off from the equity, the reduced
amount of equity at Y13 billion plus the fund for fixed assets at Y5.1 billion
(created from profit allocations), would be about 62 of ABC's total assets. The
proportion of the reduced equity plus the fund for fixed assets, to risk assets
would be about 7Z, and to external liabilities about 62. (Annex 2, Attachment 1,
para.18). Though these ratios are close to international standards, the government
and ABC must pay attention to increasing the provision for bad debts and/or
recapitalization of ABC to provide increased cushion against future bad debts and
improve ABC's profitability.
2.30         Profits and Profitability.   Within the current framework of China's
financial system, ABC presents itself as a profit-making, reasonably liquid and



17
viaLle institution (Annex 2, Table 6 and Attachment 1, para. 18). ABC earned a net
profit of Y5.6 billion (after payment of business tax) or 1.75Z of total assets in
1988 compared to Y4.3 billion in 1987 (1.56% of total assets) and Y3.5 billion in
1986 (1.5% of total assets). Amounts transferred to welfare and development funds
from profits amounted to Y1.5 billion in 1988 and were much higher compared to YO.6
billion in 1987 and YO.7 billion in 1986. ABC's gross income from loans increased
from Yl1.5 billion in 1986 to Y20.2 billion in 1988 mainly on account of increases
in subloan interest races, which was the main source of incremental profitability.
ABC's operational costs also increased from 0.95% of total assets in 1986 to 1.4z in
1988 due to inflation and expansion in staff and number of offices but since ABC's
gross spread ranged at about 3Z, it could finance the incremental cost without much
difficulty. There are no unusual government subsidies in ABC's resource generation
and if any government subsidies are provided for policy lending, these are, by and
large, explicit and charged directly to the budget.
2.31        Accounting Systems and Auditing.  ABC has a well-established accounting
and audit system. ABC has recently established an Internal Audit Department within
the Head Office and provincial and prefecture branches, which would be strengthened
under the project. MOF, PBC and the State Audit Agency (SAA) established by the
State Council carry out the audit in their respective areas on a random basis. MOF
and PBC are responsible to monitor ABC's overall profitability and liquidity. The
Bank Group is assisting SAA through training programs and seminars for its staff to
introduce management audit concepts in its operations. The SAA has demonstrated a
high degree of competence, autonomy, and thoroughness particularly in auditing Bank
Group-financed operations.
E. Overview
2.32        Through its vast network of branches, ABC reaches every corner of the
country. The State Council has assigned an important role to ABC (and to its
affiliate RCC system) in rural financial intermediation and real sector development.
ABC, therefore, is an important institution for the Bank Group's agricultural
operations in China. Although ABC is predominantly a commercial bank for the rural
sector (with some agency functions for the government), it is in the process of
increasing term lending for rural development, for which it is keen to extend to as
many branches as possible, standard techniques of project appraisal and management
using the Bank Group's experience and support (paras. 1.11 and 1.15). In the sphere
of financial management, ABC is the first among the specialized banks to carry out a
nationwide review of its loan portfolio, and pay increased attention to making
improvements in portfolio management. Although ABC still operates within the
framework of an overall credit plan set by PBC for macroeconomic management (para.
2.18), it has considerable autonomy in decision-making on individual loans and is
committed to use Bank Group-assisted projects to introduce technical, financial,
economic and enterprise appraisal criteria in subloan decision-making and to provide
necessary training to its staff to use these criteria so that they can take
economically rational decisions, responding to market signals and an in-depth
assessment of credit risks.



18
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. General
3.1         The project's credit program would be implemented mainly in the
Autonomous Region of Inner Mongolia (Nei Mongol), five provinces including Shaanxi
in the northwest, Jilin and Liaoning in the northeast, Jiangxi and Guangdong in
central and south China, and Beijing municipality. ABC has already appraised
numerous subprojects in these areas, and many major proposals have been appraised by
by the Bank Group. ABC's choice of these areas was influenced largely by the
availability of abundant potential for the production of profitable food and
commercial crops and agricultural products. ABC also wanted to extend the benefit
of the project's institutional development measures, and of Bank Group methodology
and approach to investment decision-making to these seven regional clusters of its
branches. Modern methods of technical and economic appraisal are becoming
increasingly important because of ABC's growing role in investment financing. This
role is likely to expand rapidly during the upcoming Eighth Five Year Plan (1991-
95).
3.2         Consistent with the emerging line of credit approach to Bank Group-
assisted credit projects in China, ABC could also use a part of the Bank Group
assistance (about US$75 million equivalent) in areas served by the earlier three
IDA-assisted projects including Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (Cr. 1462-CHA),
Fujian and Hunan (Cr. 1642-CHA), and Hubei (one of the six provinces covered by Cr.
1871-CHA and IFAD project) which are located in the south east, south-and
northcentral China, and such other areas that may be selected by ABC in consultation
with the Bank Group. ABC branches in these provinces have an established
organization and trained staff to implement the project (paras. 1.10-1.13). As a
part of preparation for implementing the proposed (fourth) project, ABC
headquarters has strengthened its capability to prepare, appraise and supervise
subprojects and for this purpose, has established a Technical Expert Group (TEG) to
assist in the technical evaluation of investments (para 5.5).
3.3         In the seven new regional clusters (para. 3.1), the project would be
implemented in about 152 counties including 50 counties (over 30Z of the total)
which have been classified by the national and provincial governments as poor on the
basis of rural per capita incomes ranging between Y200-Y250 (US$ 54-68). In these
areas, the proposed sites for ABC lending are distributed fairly evenly except in
Inner Mongolia, where the bulk of the investments would be in sheep and cattle
located in the northeastern Hulunbaer League, which has unexploited pasture
resources. Site locations are shown on IBRD Maps 22151, 21792, 21793 and 22129
(attached). In the four provinces currently served by the IDA-and IFAD assisted
projects (Guangxi, Fujian, Hunan and Hubei), about 302 of new investments are
expected to be in processing and marketing facilities in support of production
activities financed by the earlier projects, with priority given to poor counties.
Areas served by the three earlier IDA-assisted projects are indicated in IBRD Maps
Nos. 17483, 18971 and 20243 and 20244 provided in the respective SARs.12/ Basic data
on project areas are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.
12/ Staff Appraisal Reports Nos. 4849-CHA (April 1984), 5810-CHA (November
1985) and 6903-CHA (December 1987).



19
B. Climate and Land Use 131
3.4         Agroclimatic conditions and land use patterns in the project areas vary
widely, characterized by diverse natural endowments. Inner Mongolia is a major
range-land livestock production center, accounting for 301 of all rangelands in
China. Of the total area of 114 million ha, nearly 86 million ha (75z) are
rangelands. Climatically, Inner Mongolia is characterized by extremely low winter
temperatures, a short growing season (90-150 days) and precipitation decreasing from
southeast to northwest with northeast receiving average annual precipitation of 400-
500 mm and the western deserts receiving little or no precipitation. Agriculture in
Inner Mongolia, therefore, centers around herding. To the south of Inner Mongolia
is Shaanxi which climatically and geographically is really three provinces.
Shaanxi's northern region has harsh climate with extreme summer and winter
temperatures and meager rainfall (300-500 mm), the central region is much more
hospitable with continental monsoon climate, irrigated by Wei river and by 500-600
mm of rainfall, and the southern region is a part of a mountain range where climate
is subtropical, winters seldom freeze, and farmers enjoy a 260-280 day growing
season. Only 17? of Shaanxi's total area (206,000 sq. km) is arable of which over
45? is mountainous, located predominantly, in the northern and southern regions,
with elevations over 1000 meters. Grasslands extend to 60,000 sq. km. or 28.72 of
the total. Shaanxi's agriculture accordingly varies from pastoral animal husbandry
in the grasslands of the north to tea, mulberry, and fruit in the south.
3.5         Jilin is known as the "granary of China". It has a continental monsoon
climate with cold winters but without much snow, with average temperatures of -16
degrees celsius. Summers are relatively mild with an average temperature of 20
degrees celsius. Of the total area of 180,000 sq. km., arable land is about 29? with
corn and soybean as the dominant crops; some 492 of the total is under forest,
mostly in the east and south, where the province grows and processes ginseng,
Chinese herbs and other forestry products for export and domestic markets.
Grasslands, which account for 14? of the total land, mostly located in the
northeast, have the potential for more efficient use for livestock development.
Bordering Jilin in the south, Liaoning is C'nina's second most industrialized
province, with a large urban population. Relatively high per capita incomes have
led to a rapid diversification of Liaoning's agriculture, with the province a net
importer of grains. Liaoning has mild temperatures (about 10 degrees celsius in
winter) with warmer weather in the coastal areas; it is endowed with 2,100 km. of
coastline with good fishery resources and potential for shrimp production. Thirty
per cent of Liaoning's total area is arable, and over two-thirds hilly and
mountainous, located mainly in the central and eastern parts, which has large
untapped pasture and forestry resources. Liaoning is known for its apple production,
with about 70? of China's apple crop. In Beijing, winters are cold, dry and
blustery, with temperatures averaging about -5 degrees celsius; summers are hot and
dry with temperatures averaging 25 degrees celsius. Rainfall in Beijing averages
only 550-650 mm per year.
3.6         In the south,  Jiangxi is a river drainage basin (the Gan River)
13/ Details of climate, geographical features and land use in Guangxi, Fujian,
Hunan and Hubei, which are mostly subtropical, are available in Staff Appraisal
Reports referred in footnote 12.



20
surrounded on three sides by mountains and bordered by the Yangtze River in the
north. Climatically, Jiangxi is subtropical. Of Jiangxi's total area, 36Z is
mountainous, 42Z hilly, and 222 flat and under water surfaces. Rice is the
principal crop, often double-cropped and alterneted with wheat, rapeseed, and
soybean. In the north and east, tea is the major crop. West Jiangxi is
characterized by sparsely populated forest areas, while southern Jiangxi is known
for its excellent citrus. Poyang Lake, the Yangtze, and the Gan River provide
abundant potential for freshwater fisheries and waterfowl production. Bordered by
the South China sea, over three-fifths of Guangdong's total area is mountainous and
hilly, and the rest is plains and plateau. Agriculture in semitropical Guangdong is
dominated by rice, accounting for llZ of China's total rice production and 80Z of
the province's total agricultural production, with forestry, upland fruit crops
including citrus, pineapple and pomelo, vegetables, animal husbandry and inland and
coastal fisheries contributing the balance.
C. Recent Agricultural Performance
3.7         Rural development strategies in the project areas have, by and large,
focussed on supporting a mix of investments in land management, crop production,
animal husbandry, aquaculture, horticulture, forestry and agro-processing. However,
consistent with the national trends, during 1985-88, gross value of agricultural
output (GVAO) increased at a slower rate (5.3%) compared to the gains recorded in
the immediately preceding four-year period (9.9Z p.a.) which was characterized by a
rapid expansion of the production responsibility system, price increases, and the
expanding role of free markets. In Shaanxi, the growth in agricultural output
during 1985-88 was contributed mainly by commercial crops including vegetables,
peanuts, fruits, mulberry production, livestock (except pork), and fisheries; in
Inner Mongolia by increased wheat production but dominantly by pasture-based
livestock including meat, wool and milk products. In Jilin, grair. production during
1988 increased only by 1I, with corn production declining by 1Z over 1987. However,
in response to market incentives, production of beet, tobacco, and ginseng increased
sharply, over 55-88Z and wool production by 23%, while forestry products (ginseng
and Chinese herbs) have become important sources of rural employment and income. In
Liaoning, major gains were made in fruits, livestock and fishery production (mainly
cage culture and shrimp), with production of oil bearing crops declining sharply. In
Beijing municipality, grain output has increased in spite of severe water shortages
but increases in farm incomes have been derived principally from livestock products
and vegetables.
3.8         In Jiangxi, during 1988, grain production decreased by about 3% over
1987 (compared to the average increase of about 3.6Z p.a. during 1980-86), as did
the production of major commodities including cotton, oil-bearing crops, and
sugarcane, mainly due to drought. Much of the increased production in Jiangxi was
from poultry, pigs, and fish. In Guangdong, where price liberalization and market
orientation are perhaps most advanced in China, there has been a clear shift to
nongrain crops in response to market forces. Animal husbandry production has
continued to grow steadily. During 1985-88. in Fujian, Hunan and Guangxi, the
growth in GVAO was much stronger ranging foom 6.5Z to 9% p.a. compared to only 3.5Z
p.a. in Hubei. Much of the growth was achieved in non-crop activities (except for
fruit production), contributed by livestock, fisheries, and sideline production
which in Hubei was partially offset by reduced grain production. In all provinces,
TVEs continued to grow rapidly during 1985-88, though at a slower pace than during



21
1979-85, to take advantage of value added in processing and to provide employment to
surplus labor especially in the grain sector.
D. Agricultural Support Services and Rural Infrastructure
3.9          Research and Extension.  In the project areas, ABC's lending program
would be supported by local governments' technical bureaus and the research and
extension system, through the mechanism of interagency leading groups and
contractual arrangements between ABC, the bureaus, and subborrowers. China has
generally a well-established agricultural research and extension system, and
improvements are under way to make the system more responsive to the changing
structure of agriculture, with households instead of communes as the production
units. In the project provinces, as elsewhere in the country, the Provincial
Academies of Agricultural Sciences (PAAS) and their associate research institutes
undertake research appropriate to local needs. PAAS, administratively attached to
the local bureaus of agriculture, operate under the guidance of the Chinese Academy
of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) which is the national institute attached to Ministry
of Agriculture. CAAS through its 31 specialized research institutes covers all
major areas including rice, vegetables, oilseeds, jute, sugar beet, tea, fisheries,
sericulture, citrus and other fruits, grasslands, and animal husbandry, and
specialized fields such as germplasm resources, atomic energy application,
veterinary medicine and local plants utilization. At the national level, operating
directly under the State Council, is the Chinese Academy of Science (CAS), the
nation's premier institute responsible for basic and applied research, which has
established some 122 research institutes in different parts of the country to handle
specific research needs. Additionally, several agricultural colleges/universities
participate in the research programs. The extension system is operated by the
Ministry of Agriculture. County level agro-technical extension centers supported by
a network of township and village level stations and demonstration households assist
farm households in the application of recommended practices.
3.10        Transport and Power.   In locating subproject sites, local ABCs pay
,particular attention to ensure that these are served by adequate road networks
linking villages, townships, county towns and provincial capitals, and where large
quantities of inputs or outputs would have to be transported, also by the rail
system. In northern Shaanxi and Inner Mongolia, in pockets where transport'
constraint is evident, ABC has asked local governments to assume the responsibility
of providing minimum feeder roads before subptoject construction begins, while
including some critical investments in the project. In the case of agroprocessing
investments, availability of power is ensured, where necessary by upgrading the
distribution system.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
4.1         In line with the earlier rural credit operations with the Agricultural
Bank of China (ABC), the main objectives of the proposed project would be: (a) to
stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by financing profitable
investments by farmers, collectives, state farms and enterprises; and (b) to promote
efficiency of rural financial intermediation through introduction of sound, market-



22
oriented policies, and development of the main institutions concerned with rural
savings mobilization and lending. The project would provide funds to ABC for a long
term credit program in crops, livestock, fisheries, agroprocessing and marketing
facilities, and for technical assistance in continuing ABC's institutional
development. The project has been processed in the context of an ongoing dialogue
with the government on the recent Bank Group review of China's financial sector, and
would support key recommendations of this review by focussing on broader issues in
ABC's overall financial management, loan policies and procedures, management
information system and human resource development (paras. 2.4 and 2.32).
4.2         The proposed operation is based on an appraisal of an indicative
investment (lending) program prepared by ABC's provincial and lower level branches
with support from ABC Headquarters, local government technical bureaus and
consultants in the Autonomous Region of Inner Mongolia, five provinces of Shaanxi,
Jilin, Liaoning, Jiangxi and Guangdong, and Beijing municipality (Annex 4, Part A).
About $200 million of Bank Group assistance would likely be used for financing
investments in these regions. ABC could also use a part of the Bank Group
assistance ($75 million) for financing investments mainly in crops, livestock and
agroprocessing and marketing facilities, in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and
three provinces of Fujian, Hunan and Hubei served by the earlier IDA-assisted
projects, and with prior consultation with the Bank Group in other areas (paras.
3.1-3.2 and Annex 4, Part B). Given the line of credit nature of the project, ABC
would have the flexibility of modifying the lending program in response to
subproject appraisals including market analysis and an assessment of credit risks.
B. Project Features
4.3         The main emphasis of the project would be to expand the production of
commercial agricultural products and support investments in agroprocessing and
marketing (para.1.3). The project would focus on increasing the productivity of
natural pastures, underutilized uplands and water surfaces through commercial
investments mainly in tree crops, high value cash crops and vegetables, livestock,
and fisheries based on recognized local comparative advantage. ABC subloans would
include start-up or initial working capital requirements of the subprojects.
Starting from the ongoing Rural Credit III project (Cr. 1871-CHA), ABC has begun to
use RCCs, on a pilot basis, for onlending of project funds. For the proposed
project also, ABC would selectively use RCCs for onlending project funds to
individuals and households (para. 5.18). The project would also finance consulting
services to assist ABC in implementing the project's lending program, and ABC's
institutional development program. Subprojects would be appraised by ABC using
criteria acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 5.12).
C. Crops
4.4         Apple Planting and Rehabilitation.    Investments expected to be
financed by ABC would introduce new varieties of apple suitable for longer storage
and export, and carry out rehabilitation of old orchards by improving soil
conditions, providing comprehensive treatment for diseases and pests, pruning,
improving irrigation and fertilizer application and strengthening fruit management
including storage. Investments in new apple orchards would take place mainly in
Yanan, Huangling, Luochuan, Fuxian and Yichuan counties of Shaanxi (3800 ha) and in
seven suburban counties of Beijing municipality (4,000 ha). Rehabilitation of apple



23
orchards would be financed, about 1000 ha each in Shaanxi and Beijing and about
2,000 ha in Liaoning (Shuizhong county and Jinzhou state farm). Per ha cost of new
plantings would be about Y6,000 to Y8,000, and of rehabilitation, between Y3,500 and
Y5,500, with variations by province and subprojects depending upon the nature of
development proposed and estimated incremental yields. Though the area to be
financed by the project would be small relative to the area already planted to apple
in China, the inclusion of these investments in the proposed project would help
focus local governments' attention on a number of critical aspects of apple orchard
development and management, particularly variety selection, nursery development and
management, crop husbandry, fruit handling, packaging and storage, and technical
standards for rehabilitation of old orchards. Technical guidelines for planting and
rehabilitation of apple orchards, which would require a case-by-case appraisal of
subprojects by ABC, were agreed to at negotiations (Annex 5).
4.5         Citrus Development in Jiangxi and Guangdong.  China's citrus subsector
has rapidly developed in recent years. However, this development is based mainly on
planting of navel (winter) varieties which means that harvesting of most citrus
fruit is concentrated in winter creating enormous transport, storage and marketing
problems. Summer oranges are in short supply and command attractive prices. In
support of the government's strategy to diversify the citrus sector, the proposed
project would finance mainly planting of summer (Valencia) varieties on 1067 ha in
seven counties of Ganzhou prefecture of Jiangxi. By recycling of the project funds
at the county level, ABC expects to support planting of Valencia varieties on about
5,000 ha. In Guangdong, the project would finance planting of 2000 ha of Hongjiang
(summer) orange which is a relatively new variety developed by local research
institutes and state farms following the discovery of a mutant in the early 1970s.
Further research is under way to reduce the number and size of seeds. However, in
spite of this weakness, Hongjiang variety has strong demand in local and Hongkong
markets. In Jiangxi, the project would also finance three citrus packing houses,
with a capacity of 3-5 tons per hour for grading, washing, fungicidal treatment,
waxing, sizing and packing of fruit. This would be the first phase of a long term
plan which envisages building up of a number of such facilities in southern Jiangxi
to avoid transporting of unpacked fruit over long distances, and reduce delays
between harvest and treatment of fruit. Technical criteria that would be applied in
the two provinces for citrus planting and in Jiangxi for post-harvest handling of
citrus were agreed to during negotiations (Annex 6).
4.6         In Jiangxi, the Citrus Development Center (CDC), recently set up by the
Ganzhou prefectural government would play a key role in project implementation
including nursery development, provision of technical services to farmers, and
integration of production, processing, storage, packaging, transport, and marketing
services. CDC is currently administered by the prefectural government which has
agreed with ABC to provide for orange growers' participation in CDC management and
to operate as a cooperative, performing marketing functions similar to that
performed for orange growers in the US and other countries.
4.7         Other Fruits.  Investments in fruit trees other than apple and citrus,
would be mainly in Jilin (applepear), Shaanxi (kiwi and walnut), Liaoning (apricot),
Guangdong (pomelo rehab.), Jiangxi (yellow peach and pear) and Beijing (pear and
peach). Apple pear is a mutant of the pear species which is much sweeter in taste
than common pears and is shaped like an apple. In Jilin, some 5,600 ha have already
been planted to apple pear of which 52Z is in production. Current production is



24
sold out soon after the harvest and future demand is expected to be strong to absorb
the incremental production from the existing and proposed investments. An
additional 1,000 ha would be planted to applepear using lands unsuited to other
crops and with an improved technical package. Areas to be planted to other fruits
would vary from 100 ha (kiwi) to 1600 ha (pear and peach).
4.8         Green Tea Rehabilitation.  Jiangxi teas are well known for their quality
in both domestic and international markets and fetch relatively high prices.
However, the productivity is low (394 kg/ha), compared to the national average of
644 kg/ha and the world average of 1125 kg/ha. Only 6,667 ha or 152 of total
productive tea area in Jiangxi could be considered as an economically viable
activity. With assistance from the proposed pzoject, ten poor counties, six in
Shangrao and four in Yichuan prefectures in northern Jiangxi, would undertake
rehabilitation of about 5,900 ha of green and oolong tea. Rehabilitation of teas
would be done through one of the following three ways depending upon the status of
existing tea bushes and the nature of rehabilitation required: pruning, rejuvenation
and replacement planting. Technical guidelines for tea rehabilitation which were
reviewed during appraisal, were agreed with ABC and the government during
negotiations (Annex 7). Pruning would be done on 4694 ha (Y8,640/ha), rejuvenation
on 293 ha (Y8,800/ha) and replacement planting on 880 ha (Y11,200/ha). At full
development, the average yield is expected to increase to 1875 kg/ha. The Shangrao
prefectural government has established a Tea Bureau to provide technical assistance
to farmers undertaking rehabilitation of tea and similar arrangements are being
established within the Agriculture Bureau of Yichuan.
4.9          Mulberry Planting and Silk Cocoon Production.  Mulberry planting and
improvement, and facilities for silk worm rearing would be financed in Shaanxi, in
the hilly areas of south-eastern Ankang prefecture (2,267 ha in three counties) and
in Jiangxi on lands along the river beds which are subject to seasonal flooding and,
therefore, unsuitable for growing rice or other crops (2,800 ha in seven counties).
Mulberry plants have proven to withstand such floods. The proposed investments
would be an important measure to reduce underemployment and poverty as five out of
ten counties in the program have been classified as poor by the national and local
governments. In Shaanxi, one of the poorest provinces in China, the beneficiaries
currently depend mainly on upland corn and undertake silk worm rearing as a sidelinei
activity. In Jiangxi, generally low income farmers with surplus labor would be
given lands for mulberry planting. Additionally, the project would provide subloans
to households to construct new sheds or expand existing sheds for rearing silk worms
and purchase of equipment and in Jiangxi for supplementary irrigation facilities.
Both Shaanxi and Jiangxi have established nurseries to supply improved varieties of
mulberry but extension systems need to be considerably upgraded. Provincial
governments of Shaanxi and Jiangxi have undertaken to strengthen the extension
system, issue technical packages for mulberry planting suited to local conditions,
and outline construction standards for silk worm housing appropriate to the project
areas in consultation with the Sericulture Research Institute of the Chinese Academy
of Sciences (CAS). This understanding was confirmed by ABC and the government at
negotiations.
4.10        Vegetables, Mushrooms, Fungi, Ginseng and Bamboo.  To meet the expanding
demand for vegetables in the capital cities of Shenyang (Liaoning) and Beijing,
commercial vegetable production would be undertaken mainly in four counties of
Liaoning province (101 ha) and in outer areas of Beijing municipality (about 1000



25
ha). In Liaoning, new green houses would be established while in Beijing,
development would focus on providing improved irrigation facilities and management
in existing green houses. Per ha cost of development would be about Y 12,000 in
Liaoning and Y3,750 in Beijing (mainly for improved irrigation). Vegetable
production would be on a year-round basis to serve the free markets in the two
capital cities. The project would help establish organizational arrangements for
supply of quality seeds and other inputs (including recurring supply of plastic
materials), extension services through contractual arrangements with government and
private technicians, and collection and marketing of vegetables.
4.11         In Shaanxi, Jilin, Liaoning, and Guangdong, the project would finance
production of mushroom, fungi, traditional and American ginseng, and Chinese herbs
for domestic and export markets, and in Guangning county of Guangdong province,
bamboo planting and rehabilitation. ABC through local forestry and environmental
bureaus would ensure that timber needed in fungi production in Liaoning and Shaanxi
(mostly branches of 8-10 cm dia.) is drawn from regulated commercial wood production
and not from indiscriminate cutting of forestry resources by subborrowers. Also,
the government and ABC would ensure that clearing of the land used for planting
ginseng is within the global limits on ginseng area set by the Jilin government, and
that subborrowers fulfill their obligations to undertake reforestation after the
harvest. As regards bamboo, the Guangning county has undertaken to strengthen the
extension service and issue technical guidelines to farmers. This was confirmed at
negotiations.
4.12         Irrigation facilities.   ABC proposes to use the project's technical
assistance to establish appraisal and subloan approval criteria for small-size,
bankable, irrigation investments because of increasing demand for such loans from
farmer groups. In the past, such investments were funded mainly by local government
budgets, supplemented by ABC resources. For the proposed project, ABC has
identified some eight irrigation subprojects with command areas ranging from 1,000-
2,000 ha including one in Inner Mongolia, three each in Shaanxi and Liaoning, and
one in Beijing, mainly for production of high value crops including fruits. ABC
would send to the Bank Group for prior review, appraisal reports on two relatively
larger subprojects (Daletqi in Inner Mongolia and Shuizong in Liaoning), addressing
all aspects including engineering designs, organizational arrangements for
subproject implementation and management, cost recovery schemes, financial and
economic analysis and ABC branches' ability to collect subloans and handle related
credit risks. This was confirmed at negotiations with ABC and the government.
D. Livestock
4.13         The project would support both pasture-based and feed-based livestock
development. Pasture-based development (cattle and sheep) has been proposed mainly
in Hulunbaer and Zhelimu Leagues of Inner Mongolia and Baichen prefecture in Jilin
province. Smaller programs using grasslands are also proposed for cattle (Yijun
county) and cashmere goats (Jianxian county) in Shaanxi and for cattle, sheep and
goats in various counties in Liaoning province. Feed-based development would be
undertaken mainly for production of pigs, chicken and ducks in Jilin, Liaoning,
Beijing, and Jiangxi.
4.14        Pasture-Based Livestock Development.  Development of livestock in Inner
Mongolia and Jilin would provide an opportunity to effectively address issues in



26
sustainable agricultural production, including livestock, in a region where current
agricultural policies seem to have potential to cause deterioration over a vast
rangeland ecosystem. Chinese leymus and stipa rangelands in both eastern and
western regions of Hailar municipality (Hulunbaer League) are in good-to-excellent
condition and have generally remained underexploited (as this was once a restricted
border security zone), except in areas with high density human population. However,
two other subproject areas, namely, Zhelimu league of Inner Mongolia (Zhurihe state
farm) and Baichen prefecture of Jilin, are already in a region of intensifying
desertification caused by 'resource mining" by agricultural and rangeland livestock
production systems. This resource mining is caused mainly by the lack of integrated
resource management planning; inability of the government agencies to cross
organizational barriers and make rational decisions leading to sustainable resource
use; and local communities' or households' short-term agricultural responses to
internal and external pressures (i.e. increasing consumption needs, income
incentives, or government quota requirements) that have met only their immediate
needs but failed to take account of long-term impacts on the resource or the
production system. Creating sustainable livestock development requires that these
constraints must be addressed, which this project would begin to do, for the first
time in China, by introducing a mandatory, ecologically-sustainable, rangeland
planning system (Area Management Plan) to the staff of local agricultural bureaus
and ABC. Using UNDP's technical assistance, ABC has recently trained some 35
project-related staff in the application of AMP concepts to appraisal of grassland-
based livestock subprojects (Annex 8).
4.15        The key element of the Area Management Plan (AMP) is to establish a
formal, monitorable, agreement between villageitownship and higher level governments
and ABC that stocking rates would not exceed those permitted by existing grassland
resources. The local governments would take the responsibility to ensure that these
agreements are honored. Three research institutions including Rangeland Research
Institute of Hulunbaer League, Grassland Research Institute (CAAS), Inner Mongolia,
and Institute of Grassland Science of Northeastern Normal University, Jilin would
participate in this exercise under technical assistance contracts with local ABCs
and provincial governments. Provincial ABCs have formalized organizational
structures and cost sharing arrangements with local governments for introduction of
AMP. To review the effectiveness of the organizational arrangements for subproject!
implementation including use of AMP, during the summer of 1991, the Inner Mongolia
and Jilin ABCs, with the assistance of the local animal husbandry bureaus and
grassland research institutes, would review progress in introduction of AMP and
subproject approval processes using this concept and report the findings to the Bank
Group.
4.16        For smaller grassland-based cattle, fine-wool sheep and goat programs in
Shaanxi and Liaoning, ABC would use AMP concepts with assistance from local
grassland research institutes, to establish stocking rates feasible in the
subproject areas. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the government
and ABC that grassland-based livestock development in Inner Mongolia, Jilin, Shaanxi
and Liaoning would be carried out using AMP concepts and that ABC would conduct an
assessment, in accordance with Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank Group, of
the use of AMP concepts in the subprojects financed, and review the results of such
assessment with the Bank Group by December 31 of each year during project
implementation. In such reviews, ABC would ask provincial grassland research
institutes to participate (Annex 8).



27
4.17        Feed-based livestock.  Major investments would be in dairy enterprises,
pig development, poultry, and breeding stock for layers, broilers and ducks.
Through this project, local authorities would address major aspects of livestock
development including feed availability (Jiangxi and Liaoning); nutritional
assessment of feed resources (Shaanxi), genetic selection policy concerning sheep
and cashmere goats (Shaanxi and Liaoning); design of poultry sheds and housing
standards (Inner Mongolia); expansion of poultry breeding farms and duck production
in Beijing; and veterinary training needs of the extension staff in most project
areas. An innovative smallholder dairy development program would be introduced in
Jilin to increase supply of fresh milk to the capital city of Changchun and the
local factory producing milk products and baby foods. Some 1,000 dairy farmers in
the outskirts of Changchun city are expected to participate in the project. Local
animal husbandry bureaus and ABC's project offices would monitor technical aspects
of all major feed-based livestock subprojects.
E. Fisheries
4.18         The project would finance diverse investments in fisheries in Inner
Mongolia, Jilin, Liaoning, Shaanxi, and Guangdong including freshwater fish farm
development, pond improvement, fish cage culture, extensive lake and reservoir
fisheries, improvement of coastal pond shrimp culture, and off-shore scallop rearing
in suspended lantern cages. In addition, support infrastructure would be financed,
including fish hatcheries, water supply and drainage networks; electrical power
supply, fingerling nursery ponds, and fish feed processing mills. Investment items
in new ponds would include excavation of pond areas, drains, canals, pond lining,
pipes, sluice gates, pumps, and infrastructure such as farm roads, electrical
transmission and distribution lines. Improvements to existing farms would involve
deepening and reshaping ponds and provision of filling and drainage facilities.
4.19        Through subproject appraisal and implementation, a number of aspects of
fishery development would be addressed. For example, in fish pond development, the
provincial ABCs would require subborrowers to standardize pond dimensions; review
water system designs requiring separate canals for water supply and drainage; take
measures for pollution abatement by diverting pond water to crop irrigation, and not
allowing pond water to enter directly into adjacent natural waters or rivers; ensure
soil profile analysis for each pond, and review feed constraints and costs in
selection of species. In fish cage culture, feed availability (particularly fish
meal) and costs are critical factors, since feed accounts for an average of 60Z of
production costs. Subborrowers of cage fisheries would also be required to adhere
to the established standards of "cage area to open water area" in the reservoir to
ensure that water quality degradation does not occur. Provincial fisheries bureaus
have been asked to establish suitable guidelines to address any environmental
questions.
4.20        In shrimp culture, Liaoning has a comparative advantage in terms of good
local feed availability including small fish captured along the coast which reduces
dependence on expensive fish meal (from the usual 30-35Z to 1OZ of total feed). In
view of expected decline in world prices for prawns, Liaoning province has already
ceased bringing new areas under shrimp; the project would focus on rehabilitation of
existing ponds to improve their productivity and competitiveness in the domestic and
international markets. Scallop culture is rapidly expanding in China (though



28
initial investment costs are high), mainly because scallops derive all of their feed
from natural sources in the sea. However, being an off-shore activity, scallop
culture systems are highly susceptible to damage and loss due to storms. Risk
analysis so far done in Liaoning or in other provinces is limited. This is a
sectoral question which would be further analyzed through subproject studies under
this and other projects financed by the Bank Group. Currently, subborrowers obtain
insurance cover against possible losses from the Insurance Corporation of China;
however, the risk factor would be appropriately reflected in the economic analysis
of the investments.
F. Agroprocessing & Marketing
4.21         Investments in agroprocessing and marketing facilities would amount to
about 30Z of the total lending program. This would be the particular focus of ABC's
lending in Guangxi, Fujian, Hunan and Hubei. All subprojects would be subjected to
careful analysis to ensure that the proposed capacities are critically needed and
would serve clearly identified markets. Given the export orientation of some of the
investments, ABC would subject each such investment to detailed analysis in terms of
technology selection, hygiene and quality control standards, packaging, and
procurement of machinery and raw materials. Broadly, the project-assisted program
would support establishment of processing and storage facilities for a wide range of
products including green tea, cereals and crop residues, meat and other animal
products, fish and other aquatic products, fruits and vegetables, forestry products,
oil seeds and animal and fish feed. In evaluating individual investments, ABC's
focus would be on using modern technology appropriate for producing quality output
consistent with market requirements, ensuring efficient use of by-products and
protection of the environment.
4.22        Tea Processing.  The project would expand and rehabilitate 129 small-
size preliminary processing factories to accommodate incremental crop production as
well as to ease current shortages in processing capacities. ABC has proposed to
expand 24 factories by 12.5 tons, 46 factories by 25 tons and 59 factories by 50
tons each. The expansion of factory capacities would be backed by a plan showing
leaf production zones that would be served by individual factories to be expanded or
rehabilitated, the potential leaf production in the zones, existing processing
capacities in the zones, and the need for additional capacities (Annex 7). Optimal
use of existing capacities owned by collective or government farms through
contractual arrangements with individual households would be required before
establishing new capacities. In Jiangxi, there are some 2,000 preliminary
processing factories. Reduction in this number is not feasible since the terrain is
mountainous and transport over long distances is not practicable due to poor road
conditions. Some 50-60Z of the annual crop is harvested usually in the spring
making storage of leaf in large quantities and over longer periods logistically
difficult and also technically undesirable since this would reduce leaf quality.
The project would also finance two final processing factories, one each in Shangrao
and Yichuan prefectures. Expansion in the processing capacities would be phased in
such a manner that the program matches the envisaged crop increases under the
project-assisted tea crop rehabilitation program (para. 4.8).
4.23        Slaughterhouses and cold storages.  Proposals have been made for nine
slaughter and cold storage facilities in the provinces of Shaanxi, Liaoning, Inner
Mongolia, Jilin and Jiangxi for cattle, sheep and poultry. As a measure of



29
technical assistance to subborrowers, ABC Head Office would arrange review of the
designs and layouts including environment protection and health standards for all
major investments in slaughter houses through China Refrigeration Engineering
Company (CREC), an enterprise of the Ministry of Commerce, which is a member of
ABC's Technical Expert Group (TEG). ABC Head Office would send a report to the Bank
Group on the recommendations made on the first five subprojects already identified
including those in Shengli, Jurihe in Inner Mongolia, Shangzhou, Xixiang and Yujun
in Shaanxi, Jinxi, Zhangwu and Chagtu in Liaoning and Guang Qing in Jiangxi and any
new proposals that may later be included in the project. This measure is expected
to ensure that investments financed by ABC would comply with acceptable technical,
environment and health standards; include efficient use of by-products, provide for
waste water handling, and include training of staff and management in handling
machinery and products. it would also servP the purpose of exposing ABC staff to
detailed technical appraisal of such investments. ABC would use technical
assistance from the proposed project (financed by subloans for specific investments)
to hire overseas expertise for this activity.
4.24        Other agroprocessing investments.  Other major agroprocessing
investments would include corn processing for starch and glucose (Shaanxi and Inner
Mongolia); processing of forestry products and Chinese medicines (Jilin and
Liaoning), manufacturing of particlelfiber boards (Jilin and Shaanxi); processing of
livestock products (Shaanxi, Liaoning and Jiangxi), fruit storage and processing
(Jiangxi and Shaanxi); bamboo and vegetable processing (Shaanxi and Jiangxi); and
feed mills that are needed to support major production programs in livestock and
fisheries. Most subprojects included in the lending program in Inner Mongolia,
Shaanxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Jiangxi and Guangdong were reviewed by local and Bank
Group technical experts during project preparation and appraisal, in terms of
technical designs proposed, availability of raw materials, and market prospects for
the final outputs. In approving individual subloans, ABC would take into
consideration specific suggestions made by the technical experts.
G.   Technical Assistance
4.25        The main elements of the technical assistance component are reviewed in
Annex 9 and summarized in Table 1 of Annex 9. The project's focus is to enable ABC
to better serve its goals as a major commercial and development bank for China's
rural sector with due regard to financial viability, liquidity, and profitability,
and respond more effectively to its changing role from a fiscal organ of the state
to that of a full financial intermediary in line with the recommendations of FSR
(para. 2.4). Specifically, the project would assist ABC in various activities aimed
at the following: (i) upgrade ABC's financial management; (ii) develop ABC's longer
term lending strategies and programs, coinciding with the national Eighth Five Year
Plan; (iii) review ABC's lending policies for major client groups (TVEs, state farms
and beneficiaries of poverty alleviation programs); (iv) define and upgrade ABC's
management information system; (v) provide office technology and equipment to
improve ABC's operational efficiency; (vi) provide training to ABC's senior staff in
financial management, foreign exchange operations, modern accounting systems and
internal audit; (vii) strengthen trainers' training in ABC's three national colleges
initiated by the Third Rural Credit Project; and (viii) provide special courses in
project appraisal, management, monitoring and agro-industry financing to senior- and
middle level staff at ABC headquarters and provincial branches.



30
4.26        In upgrading ABC's financial management, the project would focus on
ABC's long-range business planning; credit plan formulation and preparation; lending
policies and procedures; monitoring of loan portfolio; assets and liabilities
management; assets valuation; internal audit and controls; introduction of
internationally accepted formats for financial reporting; the contract system; and
financial management of the RCC system. This would be done through a national
symposium in ABC (March 1991), follow-up workshops at the provincial level, senior
staff training and a mid-term evaluation of the specific initiatives taken by ABC as
a part of this effort. This review would be done by ABC in association with the
Bank Group as a part of project supervision. The government has also agreed to
carry out with the Bank Group, a study of rural investment and finance on TORs
satisfactory to the Bank Group, including reviewing the role and functions of RCCs
and NGFAs in the provision of financing for the agricultural sector.
4.27        The project would also assist ABC in the formulation of its medium-and
long-term lending program and future project preparation by supporting specific
subsectoral studies. In recent years, ABC's lending to township and village
enterprises (TVEs) and the state farm system has increased significantly. Since
1984, ABC also started playing an important role in poverty alleviation programs
when the government began to provide to ABC special funds for concessional loans to
poverty groups. ABC faces institutional, financial and policy questions in regard
to lending for each of these categories. The project would, therefore, assist ABC
to review and reshape its lending strategies for each of these major clients. The
project's technical assistance would also support a review of ABC's management
information system in light of international practices and experience, suggest
improvements especially in regard to its ongoing program of computerization
(hardware acquisition and software development) and develop technology options and
longer term strategy for its computerization program. Building upon the initiatives
supported by the earlier projects, this project would strengthen the trainers'
training program at ABC's three national and provincial staff training colleges,
training of its headquarters staff, and of credit staff in project and other
provinces in project appraisal, monitoring and evaluation, and agro-industry
financing. The project would also finance some basic facilities such as telex and
facsimile machines and office equipment at ABC Headquarters and provincial branches
to improve their operational efficiency.
H. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.28        Cost Estimates.  The total project cost, based on the indicative
investment program (Annex 4) is estimated at US$550 million including US$120.2
million equivalent or about 22Z in foreign exchange and US$43.8 million in related
taxes and duties (Table 4.1). Estimates are based on August 1990 prices and do not
include price contingencies as it is expected that any cost changes would lead to an
adjustment in the number of subloans.
4.29        Financing.  The proposed IBRD Loan of US$75 million equivalent and IDA
Credit of SDR 143.7 million (US$200 million equivalent) would contribute about 50Z
of total project cost, including taxes, or about 54Z of total costs net of taxes.
The IBRD Loan and IDA Credit would finance 10O? of the foreign exchange requirements
plus 36t of local costs. The remaining project cost would be financed up to about
20? by ABC ($110.9 million) and 30? by subborrowers ($164.1 million). Retroactive
financing of SDR 17.96 million ($25 million) would be required for expenditures



31
incurred after January 1, 1990 and before Loan and Credit signing, for subloans
disbursed by ABC consistent with the project's terms and conditions. Expenditure
eligible for retroactive financing relates mainly to subprojects for which an early
startup was considered essential for mobilizing local resources especially by using
underemployed labor available in project areas during winter months, and for
maintaining the momentum of project preparation and implementation.
Table 4.1 : PROJECT COST SUMMARY
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  F.Ex.
(Y million)            ($ million)          z
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------
A. ABC/RCC Subloans
Crops                  614.6     153.6    768.2  130.2   32.6    162.8   20
Livestock              535.4     133.8    669.2  113.4   28.4    141.8   20
Aquaculture            300.9      26.2    327.1   63.8    5.5     69.3    8
Agro-processing        572.1     245.2    817.3  121.2   51.9    173.1  30
Subtotal            2023.0     558.8   2581.8  428.6  118.4    547.0   22
B. Technical Assistance
Staff training           2.3       2.4      4.7    0.5    0.5      1.0   50
Consultant services      0.2       2.1      2.3    0.1    0.4      0.5   80
Equipment                1.9       3.3      5.2    0.4    0.7      1.1   64
Others                   0.9       1.0      1.9    0.2    0.2      0.4  50
Subtotal               5.3       8.8     14.1    1.2    1.8      3.0   60
Total                 2028.3     567.6   2595.9  429.8  120.2    550.0   22
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------_
I. Procurement
4.30       Machinery and Equipment.  The procurement arrangements for this project
are in line with previous Bank Group practice for agricultural credit projects
(Table 4.2). Since this is a credit project, procurement of machinery and equipment
would be made directly by numerous subborrowers, spread over a period of three
years. Each package would, therefore, be too dispersed and small scale to be
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Prudent shopping procedures
would be used to procure vehicles and smaller machinery and equipment for on-farm
development, farm support and agro-processing facilities, staff training and
modernization of business offices; such procurement would be mainly from local
machinery companies and suppliers and the increasing number of representatives of
foreign suppliers in China. However, larger investments in tea, meat and other
livestock product processing, corn processing, oilseeds, fruit and forestry product
processing and feed mills would be procured in accordance with prudent shopping,
local competitive bidding (LCB) and limited international bidding procedures (LIB)
acceptable to the Bank Group. The aggregate of all contracts for procurement of
machinery and equipment involving shopping procedures would not exceed Y226 million



32
($48 million), LCB procedures, Y165 million ($35 million), and LIB procedures Y165
million ($35 million). The procedures for procurement of machinery and equipment
are summarized as follows:
(a) Contracts for items and groups of items aggregating up to US$ 50,000
would be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers;
(b) Contracts for items and groups of items aggregating from US$50,000
up to US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank Group; however, if the relative item or groups of
items is/are to be used for processing of products for the export market and are
valued in excess of US$50,000, LIB procedures would be used to ensure more
technology options to subborrowers;
(c) Contracts for items or groups of items with costs exceeding
US$100,000 would be awarded through LIB procedures. Individual contracts in this
category are not likely to exceed US$500,000.
(d) Contracts exceeding US$500,000 would require prior review by the
Bank Group, which would represent about 8Z of the total Credit. However, the Bank
Group would review the first three LCB or LIB contracts to ensure that proper
procurement procedures are followed. Also, ABC would keep copies of contracts
exceeding US$300,000 up to US$ 500,000 at the headquarters in Beijing for review
during the Bank Group supervisions.
4.31        Civil works.  Civil works would be small, labor intensive, and scattered
over a wide area and would not be of interest to foreign bidders. The construction
of earthworks and structures for support facilities, would be undertaken mainly by
households individually or as members of the collectives or state farms using their
own labor up to an aggregate amount of Y132 million ($28 million). Other civil
works estimated at Y321 million (US$68 million), especially construction of
buildings by state-owned enterprises and state farms would be assigned to local
construction teams following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable
to the Bank Group. These procedures specify criteria to be applied to qualifying
bidders; methods for bid advertisements to secure a satisfactory number of bidders;
procedures for verification and award of bids; and the rights and obligations of the
parties involved. ABC would require subborrowers to follow these procedures as a
condition of subloan approval; ask subborrowers to inform ABC of the method of
procurement used; and verify compliance during supervision.
4.32        Agricultural Inputs.   Farm households, collectives, state farms, and
state-owned enterprises will purchase agricultural inputs including chemical
fertilizers, seeds, and animal feeds from SMCs which have a network of branches
throughout the country. Any bulk procurement of inputs, especially chemical
fertilizers, would be made through national procurement agencies following
procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. No single package is likely to exceed
$50,000 equivalent but, in the unlikely event, if any single procurement exceeds $ 5
million, such procurement would be made using ICB procedures. The Credit and Loan
agreements provide for this possibility.
4.33        Consultants.  Consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank



33
Group's guidelines for the Use of Consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank Group.  About 1000 staff-days of internationally recruited consultants
and 2000 staff-days of local consultants would be required for the financial
management symposia and workshops, preparation of medium-and long-term lending
programs, review of lending to special client groups, a review of ABC's management
information system, trainers' training and training programs for ABC's staff (Annex
9, Table 1).
4.34       ABC offices would keep a record of all procurement decisions involving
contracts for purchase of machinery and equipment, construction of civil works and
agricultural inputs for amounts exceeding $50,000.
Table 4.2 : PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
-------------------------------------------------------_-------__-------
Project Element    ICB 1/ LIB        LCB       Others 2/   Total
--------------------------------------------------------------------__--
Machinery and equipment    -     35        35          48          118
(35)     (32)        (37)        (104)
Civil works               -      -         68          28           96
(52)       (19)         (71)
Agricultural inputs       -      -         32         301          333
(21)       (77)         (98)
ABC staff training, and
consultant services     -      -         -            3           3
(2)         (2)
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-
Total         -    35         135          380         550
(35)     (105)        (135)       (275)
-------------------------------___-----_-------_----------------___-----
I/  The Loan and Credit Agreements will provide for ICB, per para. 4.32. Procurement
arrangements would include ICB if any single procurement of agricultural inputs for
a group of subprojects exceeds $5 million.
2/ Includes shopping procedures and local procedures acceptable to the Bank Group.
Figures in parentheses are approximate amounts expected to be financed by the Bank
Group.
J. Disbursements
4.35       ABC is expected to approve most of the subloans under the project within
about two-and-half years, i.e. by the end of 1992. Disbursements under the approved
subloans are expected to be completed by June 30, 1995. The closing date of the
project would be December 31, 1995. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given
in Annex 10. Disbursement is expected to be faster than the Bank-wide and regional
averages, since ABC has already identified a large proportion of investments
suitable for project-financing, and appraised a significant number of subprojects.
The disbursement estimate is in line with experience under the previous rural credit
projects.
4.36       Disbursement of IBRD Loan and IDA Credit proceeds would be as follows:
(a)  71Z of project subloans disbursed by ABC and 1002 of ABC



34
disbursements to RCCs for RCC subloans;
(b)   100% of expenditures for overseas fellowships and consultant
services;
(c)   for machinery and equipment under the technical assistance
component, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100X of local
expenditures (ex-factory) and 75Z of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
4.37        Disbursements against subloans extended by ABC would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) listing subloans made. Disbursements for
overseas training of staff and for consultants would be made on the basis of SOEs
certifying that the expenditures were incurred on the basis of a training program
agreed with the Bank Group and that the consultants have been employed in accordance
with the Bank Group's guidelines for use of consultants. Disbursements against
expenditures for machinery and equipment under the technical assistance component
would be fully documented for contracts exceeding US$200,000. For contracts up to
US$200,000, disbursements would be made against SOEs. Supporting documentation for
SOEs would be retained by ABC and made available to Bank Group staff for review
during supervision missions.
4.38        In order to provide for efficient disbursement of the Loan and Credit
proceeds, a Special Account would be set up in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
the Bank Group with an initial deposit of US$17 million. The proposed initial
deposit would represent the estimated average disbursement of the Loan and Credit
for anv four months. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted monthly, or whenever the Special Account is drawn to 502 of the initial
deposit, whichever comes first.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Organization and Management
5.1         General.  ABC's provincial branches would be primarily responsible for
implementing the project's credit program. At headquarters, ABC recently
reconstituted Credit Pivision I (in the International Business Department) which was
responsible for the previous IDA-assisted projects into an independent and upgraded
Project Office. This Project Office would provide general guidance to the
provincial and Beijing branches, and serve as the main link with the Bank Group.
Besides managing Bank Group-assisted projects, the new Project Office would
participate in the development of ABC's nationwide medium-and long-term lending
strategies and programs, and institutional development initiatives. This new role
of the Project Office would provide an important link between Bank Group-assisted
projects and ABC operations outside these projects. Also, commencing with this
project, ABC would take new initiatives to prepare itself to implement broader,
market-oriented rural development programs of national significance, for which it
expects to seek multilateral and bilateral assistance in coming years (paras.5.3-
5.8).
5.2         Project Organization.  Chart 3 shows the organization for implementation



35
of the proposed project. As for the earlier projects, the provinces and counties
participating in the proposed project would appoint Project Management Committees
(PMCs) to coordinate the work of ABC and the government's administrative and
technical bureaus. Project Offices at the provincial levels and the Project Units
(PUs) at the county level would manage the day-to-day aspects of project lending.
5.3         Leading Group at Headquarters.  Earlier IDA-assisted rural credit
projects were managed entirely by the International Business Department, with very
limited participation by ABC's mainstream departments. Under the new organizational
set up, overall responsibility for project implementation would be that of a Leading
Group chaired by a Vice President (in charge of International Business and Credit
Departments), which would include the heads of ABC's departments of planning,
agricultural and commercial credit, industrial credit, finance and accounting, staff
training, and RCCs. The Leading Group's main functions would be to provide policy
directions for and coordinate the project implementation. The Leading Group would
function as an operational body, recommending specific actions to the President's
Council, with day-to-day work handled by the Project Office.
5.4         Project Office at Headquarters.   The Project Office would function as
an executive arm of the Leading Group. Headed by a director (instead of a division
chief as was the case for the erstwhile Credit Division I), the Project Office would
have two main divisions: one dealing with the Bank Group-assisted projects and the
other with ADB projects. In its upgraded role, the Project Office will participate
in preparing ABC's medium-and long-term lending program nationwide, carry out
related special studies, arrange technical support to ABC's mainstream credit
departments, and undertake selected M & E activities. It would be responsible to
arrange counterpart funding, prepare documentation on subloans requiring Bank Group
approval, arrange withdrawal of project funds, review project accounts and subloan
approvals, oversee audit of project accounts and SOEs, compile semi-annual progress
reports and undertake monitoring of project implementation. The Project Office
currently has a total staff of 20. Additionally, ABC has placed seven experienced
staff from credit departments at the disposal of the Project Office on a part-time
basis. However, in light of its expanded functions, the Project Office may have to
be strengthened through staff recruitment, redeployment, and training. These
aspects would be reviewed as a part of the staff training program for headquarters
staff (Annex 9, Table 1, item 7), the proposed review of TEG performance (para. 5.6)
and Bank Group's project supervision.
5.5         Technical Expert Group (TEG) at Headquarters.  Until recently, for
technical appraisal of its lending program, ABC depended mainly on local government
technical staff. However, not infrequently, the local government staff lacked an
overview of broader technology or sub-sector issues and ABC had no ready access to
high caliber expertise to independently assess the technical feasibility of
subprojects financed. In some provinces (covered by Rural Credit III project), ABC
developed consultant rosters to enable the branches to hire suitable expertise. ABC
branches participating in the proposed project would similarly develop consultant
rosters for their provinces. Also, as a part of the proposed project, ABC has
established at the headquarters, a Technical Expert Group comprising senior experts
from within ABC and outside to assist ABC's operational staff in the review and
supervision of ABC's agricultural lending operations; interact with national line
ministries and provincial bureaus on sectoral development policies and programs; and
liaise with the Bank Group in appraisal and supervision of subprojects.



36
5.6         Experts on TEG are from the Fisheries Bureau of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Agro-economic Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, National Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Station, Food Science Department
of Beijing Agricultural University, Scientific and Technical Bureau of National
Environment Protection Agency, and Refrigeration Engineering Consulting Corporation
of the Ministry of Commerce. ABC would gradually broaden TEG to include additionaI
experts and also take steps to establish stronger linkages with MOA on policy and
technical matters. ABC would also have to appoint middle-level technical staff with
sound theoretical training and practical experience to interact with TEG, provide
day-to-day guidance to ABC's operational staff, and participate in subproject
supervision.  By the end December 31, 1991, ABC and the Bank Group would jointly
review the steps taken by ABC to strengthen TEG and recommend any additional
measures needed to upgrade technical support to ABC operations; This was agreed to
with the government and ABC at negotiations.
5.7         Project Organization in Provinces.  The Project Management Committees
(PMCs) at the provincial level with vice-governors in charge of agriculture as
chairmen and local ABC Presidents acting as vice-chairmen, would include heads of
the planning and finance departments, and technical bureaus including agriculture,
animal husbandry, fisheries, TVEs and rural industry and environment protection
agencies (EPA). Major PMC functions would be to provide technical expertise in
assessing subproject feasibility; assist in procurement of materials and services
for subproject implementation; arrange supply of production inputs and counterpart
funds, and arrange training to extension workers and subborrowers. PMCs would
function as advisory bodies, with ABC responsible for lending decisions.
5.8         Provincial Project Offices.  Provincial POs would be the key agencies
responsible for day-to-day aspects of project implementation. Usually headed by an
experienced ABC official of the rank of a division chief, a typical PO consists of
carefully selected financial and accounting personnel drawn from different ABC
departments and technical staff in different fields including agriculture, animal
husbandry, fisheries and agro-industries nominated by local government bureaus. POs
would also invite local EPA representatives to review individual subprojects. POs'
main functions would be to assist county branches' credit sections and Project Units
(PUs) in subproject identification, appraisal and supervision, and administer
training programs for project-related staff. POs would maintain subloan
disbursement records for withdrawal of Bank Group funds, review subloans above the
free limit set for county PUs/credit sections, oversee subloan repayments, and
monitor the project's progress and its impact. Concerned provincial branches would
establish inter-departmental leading groups so that POs could interact with and
receive support from all major departments in ABC provincial branches.
5.9         County Project Units and PMCs.  ABC's county level branches, through PUs
and credit sections, would be responsible to carry out subproject appraisal with
technical support from local bureau staff, assist subborrowers in project
implementation and supervise subloan use. The county branches would establish
Project Management Committees (PMCs) if these are corsidered essential to ensure
inter-departmental coordination for processing and supervision of subloans and
subloan collections. PMCs would act in an advisory capacity. The county branches
would establish PUs if the size and complexity of the lending program warrants such
a separate office; otherwise, their regular credit sections would handle the project



37
lending. Where necessary, the county branches would hire independent experts to
review subloan requests and supervise subproject implementation. The county
branches would maintain separate subloan accounts, collect subloans, and prepare
progress reports for information of the provincial POs. Given county branches'
important role in project implementation, ABC places considerable emphasis on
training of their staff in project appraisal and management. During project
preparation, special courses in subproject appraisal were arranged for the county
staff.
l
5.10        ABC selects only such counties for participation in the project, which
have a proven record of efficient loan portfolio management, have capacity to
provide counterpart funds, and receive adequate technical support from local and
higher level governments. At negotiations, the proposed organizational arrangements
were agreed to, and an assurance was obtained from the Government and ABC that each
PMC at provincial and county level would include a representative of the local EPA
to participate in subproject appraisal and advise on specific actions to safeguard
the environment. In counties where PMCs do not exist, ABC would require its county-
level offices to obtain approval of each subproject by the relevant EPA prior to
financing of such subprojects.
B.    Institutional Development Tasks:
Implementation Arrangements
5.11        Chart 4 shows the schedule for project implementation.  Primary
responsibility for implementing various tasks proposed for ABC's institutional
development (paras. 4.25-4.27) would be that of the Leading Group and the Project
Office at headquarters (paras. 5.3 and 5.4). ABC's following departments will
participate in carrying out specific tasks: Systems Reform, Finance and Accounting,
Training, Agricultural and Commercial Credit (including poverty alleviation and
state farm divisions), Information (MIS), and the three National Training Institutes
(Annex 9, Table 1). ABC's Systems Reform Office will organize in March 1991 a
national symposium on ABC's financial management, followed by at least two seminars
at selected provincial branches. The Systems Reform office will also participate in
a mid-term review by the Bank Group of ABC's progress in financial management
initiatives including the review of financial covenants (para. 5.23). ABC's
Finance, Accounting and Internal Audit Departments would be responsible to arrange
workshops for their senior staff in bank management and related topics. These
departments would also arrange overseas training for their senior staff. The
Project Office at headquarters would be responsible for development of medium-and
long-term lending programs and related studies and reviews of ABC's lending policies
for major client groups (TVEs, state farms and poverty groups) in association with
concerned departments/divisions. ABC's Information Department will organize a
review of its Management Information System and computerization program through an
internationally recruited consultant and procure equipment for ABC Headquarters.
Trainers' training and special courses for ABC's middle-level and senior staff would
be organized by the Training Department and the Project Office respectively. The
Project Office would prepare a semi-annual progress report on the above tasks for
review by ABC's President's Council and forward a copy of this report to the Bank
Group together with a record of actions approved by the President's Council for
information and comment. This was agreed to at negotiations. As regards the rural
investment & finance study, at negotiations an assurance was obtained from the
government that the study would be completed by June 1992 and that ABC would



38
participate in this study. The Bank Group would work with the State Council's
Office of the Rural Reform Experimental Areas (ORREA) and the Development Research
Institute (DRI) for this study.
C. Subproject Implementation
5.12         Annex 11 summarizes ABC's onlending terms and conditions and criteria
for subloan approval. Based on the recommendations of technical experts (in most
situations concurrently with the technical feasibility studies), ABC staff would
carry out financial and economic appraisal of subprojects using standard techniques
outlined in ABC's project appraisal manual which was developed with IDA assistance
under Rural Credit I project. Most subproject proposals are reviewed by provincial
POs who also consult provincial technical bureaus on subprojects involving large
amounts and new technologies. Subprojects involving irrigation or other
infrastructure development are prepared by local governments' water resources
bureaus and construction agencies. As for agroprocessing subprojects, the
provincial bureaus of rural industry, national and provincial design institutes, and
suppliers of machinery and equipment would provide technical assistance to
subborrowers for preparation of designs and feasibility studies, technology
selection, and staff training in operation of plants and product marketing.
5.13          Generally in crop production, livestock and fisheries, the majority of
subborrowers would be specialized households, collectives and state farms.
Collectives and state farms allocate subloans pro rata to their member households
under contracts undertaking that subloans would be used for approved purposes and
repaid according to the prescribed schedule. These subprojects are executed by
borrowing households themselves with the help of construction teams. Starting with
the proposed project, ABC would mobilize expertise needed to independently oversee
the technical aspects of its lending operations through TEG (para. 5.6) and by
hiring independent consultants.
5.14         Subloans in excess of $3 million would require the Bank Group's
approval before being finally approved by ABC to assist ABC in reviewing whether the
appraisal methodology has been properly applied and sectoral or technical issues
have been adequately addressed. An assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. About 25 subprojects, including some reviewed during appraisal, are
likely to be referred to IDA for prior approval.
D. Project Beneficiaries
5.15        Subborrowers would include individuals, individual and specialized
households, collectives, cooperatives, township and village enterprises, state
farms, supply and marketing cooperatives, state-owned or registered enterprises (set
up by the state farms, local government bureaus, and supply and marketing
cooperatives). State-owned and registered enterprises would play an important role
in project implementation, by performing one or more of the following functions:
channelling ABC credit to and collecting subloans from individual households and
enterprises; establishing enterprises for processing of project output; and
providing technical and marketing services to households and enterprises. Operating
as independent economic entities, enterprises and intermediary companies would enter
into contractual arrangements with participating households, and charge fees for
their services. By current estimates, about one-third of the project funds would go



39
directly to individual, specialized households, cooperative organizations, one-third
to households and enterprises within the state farms and TVEs, and the balance to
state-owned or intermediary companies directly or through them to participating
households.
5.16        Enterprise A2praisal.  In support of the ongoing enterprise reforms and
as a part of the project lending procedures, ABC's provincial and county branches
would carry out an appraisal of the participating state farms, TVEs, and
intermediary companies to ensure that these entities are financially viable, and are
managed efficiently. Main elements of the enterprise appraisal are indicated in
Annex 11 (Attachment 1). This appraisal would review, among others, the nature of
enterprise organization and legal status, financial condition, financial projections
for 3-5 years, management capability, subloan guarantees, arrangements for financial
audit, and that the contractual arrangements between households (producers) and
enterprises, and staff and enterprises (including participation in ownership,
management and profits) are fair and equitable. Enterprise appraisals so far
completed have been found very useful by ABC branches in spearheading management and
financial reforms in concerned enterprises and it has accordingly been decided to
introduce enterprise appraisal in all ABC branches as a part of subloan decision-
making procedure.
5.17        State Farms and State-sponsored companies.  Since 1984, there has been
much decentralization in the management of the state farms. Individual households
in state farms now operate under the responsibility system and directly borrow money
from ABC. Enterprises sponsored by the state farms operate as independent economic
entities responsible for their profit and loss, and also borrow money directly from
ABC for working capital. Borrowings by enterprises for purchase of fixed assets,
however, require prior approval of the sponsoring state farms' parent body but the
state farms are no longer liable to repay ABC loans unless these are explicitly
guaranteed. Most state farms no longer receive any government budgetary funds,
which has increased their reliance on ABC loans and brought greater financial
discipline in their operations. Accordingly, ABC's appraisal of the state farms
would cover the following main aspects: the status of reforms introduced, sources
and uses of funds, financial condition of the state farms and of the enterprises
sponsored by the state farms, and the state farms' overall management efficiency.
(Annex 11, Attachment 1).
5.18        ABC would use RCCs and Supply and Marketing Cooperatives (SMCs) to
perform agency functions for which they are particularly suited. Traditionally,
individuals and households deal with rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) for their
short-term production credit, and for small loans up to three years for farm
improvement, sideline activities, and consumption needs. ABC concentrates on
providing larger subloans to specialized households, collectives, and organized
entities. However, wherever feasible (especially in area development programs like
tea and bamboo planting and rehabilitation, and rangeland-based livestock
development, ABC would use RCCs for onlending project funds using the guidelines
developed under Rural Credit III project, making sure that RCCs selected are
financially sound and have the necessary managerial capability (Annex 11). ABC
would use SMCs in the project areas for their traditional function of providing
inputs to farmers, arranging marketing of project output, and collecting subloans
for ABC on an agency basis.



40
E. Onlending Terms and Conditions
5.19        As in earlier projects, the Government would make IDA and IBRD funds
available to ABC for onlending to subborrowers and for its institutional development
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement which would be concluded as a condition of
Loan/Credit effectiveness. A draft of this agreement would be reviewed and agreed
to with ABC and the government before it is concluded. The subsidiary loan would be
repaid in the currency used (in the case of IDA Credit, SDR equivalent of foreign
currency used) over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. Under the earlier
projects, the MOF loan to ABC carried a term of 20 years, which has been reduced by
MOF to 15 for this project, as a measure of financial discipline. Starting with
this project, interest rates on IBRD and IDA funds onlent by MOF to ABC in Renminbi
will be brought in line with the average weighted cost of ABC's long term domestic
funds (fixed term borrowings, time deposits, deposit certificates, bonds and similar
resources with maturities up to 5 years, and not more than 20Z of total demand
deposits). Inclusion of 20Z of demand deposits in longer term funds is intended to
promote term transformation of short-term funds; already about 15Z of ABC's short
term resources are deployed in long term lending. The government would also ensure
that the interest rate on Bank Group funds onlent in local currency is not lower
than the interest rate charged by the government or PBC to other specialized banks
for similar loans for similar purposes. The interest rate to be charged by the
government to ABC on Renminbi loans would be determined by the government at least
annually and applied prospectively. The IBRD Loan and IDA Credit funds onlent by
MOF to ABC in foreign currencies would carry a rate not lower than the prevailing
variable IBRD loan rate or such other market-based rate acceptable to the
government, ABC and the Bank Group. This would ensure that onlending rates for Bank
Group funds remain consistent with the prevailing market rates for longer term
resources and eliminate any explicit or implicit subsidies to ABC operations. While
the DCA and IBRD Loan Agreement provide for a market-based, foreign exchange lending
rate as an alternative to the IBRD lending rate, because the current pattern of
China's foreign borrowings does not provide a rate that would reasonably reflect the
market cost of foreign currency loans potentially available to ABC, the government,
for the present, would not use this option. During project implementation, the
government, ABC and the Bank Group should seek ways to ra.ionalize ABC's general
interest rate structure for households, collectives, state farms and TVEs, by
purpose (production and investment loans) and subloan maturities. This would be
done through project supervisions while related issues are considered by the
proposed study of rural investment and finance (paras. 4.26 and 5.11) and the
project's mid-term review (para. 5.23).
5.20        ABC would have the option of borrowing the proceeds of the IBRD Loan/IDA
Credit from MOF either in Renminbi or in foreign exchange according to its needs and
ability to cover foreign exchange risk. On Bank Group funds onlent by MOF to ABC in
Renminbi, the government would carry the foreign exchange risk. However, for some
subprojects, ABC would extend subloans in foreign exchange to enable subborrowers to
import equipment, breeding stock, and other essential inputs, in which case ABC
would borrow the Bank Group funds from MOF in foreign currencies and pass on the
exchange risk to subborrowers. On the amount of IBRD LoanJIDA credit used by ABC in
foreign exchange for staff training programs, overseas study tours and purchase of
equipment, etc., ABC would carry the exchange risk. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that government would make available the amount of foreign exchange
needed for project implementation to ABC and subborrowers.



41
5.21        ABC would onlend project funds to subborrowers to cover not more than
70% of the cost of any subproject. Minimum contribution by subborrowers to
subproject cost would be 302, which is in accord with PBC's current credit
regulations. Repayment periods for subloans would vary between three to ten years,
and would not generally exceed 12 years, based on the cash-flow estimates for
typical subprojects.
5.22        Based on the current interest rate structure (pars. 2.22-2.23), ABC's
interest cost of project funds would work out to about 7.4% while the weighted
average yield on project subloans would be about 11.6%. 14/ This would provide ABC a
gross spread of about 4.22. Allowing for ABC's operational costs at 1.6Z (including
administrative costs, business tax, welfare and development funds and depreciation),
ABC would receive a net spread of about 2.62 (before tax). ABC pays about 62Z of net
profit toward income and adjustment taxes leaving about 1% for provision of bad
debts or transfers to equity (credit funds). Of this spread, about 0.3% is retained
at headquarters and the balance of 0.7Z jy the branches. ABC's interest spread on
project lending after payment of income and adjustment taxes (i.e.4.22 minus 1.6Z)
would be about 2.5% as contemplated bv che project's onlending terms and conditions.
5.23        During negotiations, an aosurance was obtained from the government and
ABC that interest rates charged on project subloans would not be lower than the
prevailing interest rates for similar loans for similar purposes, and would be
sufficient to permit ABC to retain an interest spread of at least 2.5% (after
payment of income and adjustment taxes to MOF). or such other spread as may be
agreed between the Government and the Bank Group, and that ABC would be given
authority to increase interest rates to subborrowers to ensure a minimum spread of
2.5Z on project lending. Currently, ABC is authorized to charge interest at rates
20% higher than the rates prescribed by PBC depending upon the sources of funds and
the purpose of subloans. In addition, at negotiations, an assurance was obtained
from the government and ABC that interest spreads on ABC's total lending operations
(including commercial and policy-based lending) would be sufficient to maintain its
overall financial viability and profitability, including provisioning for bad debts
on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 2.32). During
negotiations, the government and ABC agreed that ABC's equity (including MOF
contribution, retained profits and provisions not in the nature of liabilities
external to ABC) would not be less than 5% of its risk assets (loans) and that ABC
141 Interest cost of ABC's project funds is based on: (a) weighted average
cost of its domestic funds (29Z) currently at 62 p.a.; and (b) cost of Bank Group
funds (71% of subloans) onlent by MOF to ABC, at the current IBRD rate of 7.72Z for
foreign currency loans and about 8% on Renminbi loans, i.e. the rate comparable to
the average cost of domestic long-term funds, plus a commitment fee on IBRD loan.
The weighted average yield on project subloans has been calculated on the basis of
the expected composition of the loan portfolio by subsectors (crops, 302; livestock,
26%; aquaculture, 13%; and agroprocessing and marketing, 31Z) and the maturity
structure of the loan portfolio comprising 1/3 of the subloans for 1-3 years, 1/3
for 3-5 years, and 1/3 for over 5 years. On at least 50% of the total loan
portfolio, ABC would charge interest at rates 20% higher than the prescribed rates.



42
would establish, by the end of December 1991, a recapitalization plan including
mechanisms for equity replenishment and a time-table for implementation.
Recapitalization mechanisms would include: allowing ABC to retain a larger
proportion of annual profits toward reserves and provision for bad debts, reducing
taxation rates. and making direct contribution to ABC's equity. This
recapitalization plan would ensure that ABC's risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio
would rise to about 8Z, in line with the prevailing international standards within a
reasonable period. The government has also agreed to carry out, by December 31,
1992, a mid-term review with the Bank Group, of the progress of implementing overall
financial sector reform, including credit and interest rate policies,
rationalization of the interest rate structure, and banking regulation and
supervision; and of implementation of the project and ABC's institutional
development, including ABC's risk-assets ratio and recapitalization plan, and the
credit and technical assistance program under the project.
5.24         With projected inflation (CPI index) of 4Z during 1990, 9X in 1991, 82
in 1992 and 5% during 1993-95, the proposed interes,. rates are expected to remain
generally positive. However, at negotiations, an assurance was obtained from ABC
and the government that ABC would lend project funds to subborrowers at rates which
would be positive in real terms.
5.25        ABC onlending of IBRD Loan and IDA Credit to the project areas would be
broadly as follows: Inner Mongolia: $25 million; Shaanxi: $29 million; Jilin: $30
million; Liaoning: $32 million; Jiangxi: $34 million; Guangdong: $23 million;
Beijing municipality: $25 million; Guangxi and Hubei: $10 million each; Fujian and
Hunan: $15 million each and other areas about $25 million. Since the indicative
investment program for the project is flexible, ABC Headquarters and project areas
could modify this allocation as necessary for efficient implementation of the
project. About US$12 million of Bank Group funds are expected to be channelled
through eligible RCCs for subloans conforming to terms and conditions similar to
those for ABC subloans (Annex 11, para. C-6).
F. Accounts and Audit
5.26               County and provincial branches (the municipal branch in case of
Beijing) would maintain separate accounts for project subloans and expenditures.
These records would be forwarded to the provincial POs which would maintain
consolidated accounts including subloan disbursement data that would be used by ABC
headquarters for withdrawal of the IBRD Loan and IDA credit. At ABC headquarters,
the Project Office would consolidate the accounts for the project as a whole
including the expenditures incurred under the technical assistance component.
Experience with maintenance and audit of accounts for the earlier projects is
generally satisfactory. The Bank Group has made specific suggestions to the State
Audit Agency (SAA) which would do the audit of ABC branches and headquarters and the
project accounts, for improving the content of the audit to make it more useful to
ABC's management, to which SAA has agreed. Assurances were obtained from the
Government and ABC at negotiations that ABC headquarters and branches would maintain
separate accounts for project subloans and expenditures and these would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, according to guidelines
acceptable to the Bank Group. These guidelines, which have been communicated to SM
under Rural Credit III project, would introduce management audit concepts and seek
SAA opinion on adequacy of interest spreads on project lending, subloan collection



43
performance and provisions for bad debts. ABC would forward to the Bank Group the
audited project accounts together with duly audited annual accounts (balance sheets
and income statements) of ABC's provincial and municipal branches and of ABC's total
operations, within six months of the close of each financial year. The audited
accounts would include details of withdrawals from the IBRD Loan/IDA Credit Accounts
made on the basis of SOEs and the auditors' opinion as to whether such withdrawals
were against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by the Bank Group. Assurance
on audit of project accounts and submission to the Bank Group of audit reports on
project accounts and ABC's audited annual accounts was obtained at negotiations.
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.27               The project's physical and financial progress would be monitored
through progress reports that would be sent by county branches/PUs to the provincial
POs and by the latter to the Project Office at the headquarters. Each PU or county
branch would prepare a monthly progress report on subloans disbursed (for purposes
of withdrawal of IBRD Loan/IDA credit); and quarterly reports showing subloan
approvals and disbursements; progress in subproject construction; problems
encountered in subproject implementation and the steps taken to resolve them;
subloan collection performance; cash flow projections for typical production and
agro-processing enterprises; and an overall review of the county ABC operations.
County PUs and branches would present the monthly and quarterly reports to the local
PMCs and to the provincial POs. ABC has developed a manual for monitoring and
evaluation which is being tested in the field and through workshops for the project,
the first one of which was conducted in July-August 1989 with EDI participation.
Another workshop was held in March 1990. Guidelines for monitoring and evaluation
for the proposed project would be firmed up by the end of June 1991. ABC would
submit semi-annual reports to the Bank Group within two months following the end of
each reporting period. This was agreed at negotiations.
5.28        Within six months of the completion of the Loan/Credit disbursements,
ABC headquarters would prepare for submission to the Bank Group, its part of a
Project Completion Report (PCR). The PCR would assess the project's impact on ABC's
institutional development and changes in incomes and employment levels in the
project areas, financial and economic rates of return on representative investments
compared to appraisal estimates, effects on upgrading production technology,
performance of different subborrower organizations and ABC's project organization,
problems experienced in subproject implementation and lessons learned.
H. Environmental Effects
5.29        Project investments in fruits, mulberry planting, green tea
rehabilitation, and rangeland-based livestock development would clearly have
beneficial effects on environment, especially by reducing soil erosion (paras. 4.5-
4.10). Other project investments are not anticipated to generate adverse effects on
the environment. Environmental aspects of several subprojects were reviewed during
appraisal and a few subprojects which were unlikely to conform to Bank Group
environmental standards with the technology and investment proposed, were dropped.
For specific subprojects referred in paras. 4.11 and 4.19, the government and ABC
have agreed to take measures necessary to protect the environment. Thi- was
confirmed at negotiations. To address any potential dangers, local EPA
representatives would participate in subproject feasibility studies and reviews at



44
county to provincial levels, and advise on specific actions conforming to
appropriate provincial and national guidelines on environmental control.
Additionally, an assurance was obtained from the government and ABC at negotiations
that all subproject activities would conform to appropriate guidelines on
environmental control issued by the provincial and national governments and
acceptable to the Bank Group. Similar arrangements under the earlier project (Rural
Credit III) have performed satisfactorily.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Market Prospects
6.1            Market prospects  for the project's  incremental outputs are good,
particularly for meat, wool, egg, milk, fish, fruit, vegetables, tea and Chinese
herbs. These products generally face high income elasticities of demand, and their
demand has been continuously increasing as China's per capita income has grown. The
historical growth of production and per capita consumption of major commodities and
the per capita incomes and their growth rates for China and the project provinces
are summarized in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1 Output *nd Consueption of Major Farm Producte and Income Growth totween 1980-1988
Production                       Con-u ption
-- _ ;   -- - -                  -- - - _U _--___---__-___---___-___  __ ___
1980 1988 (X) b/                   1980 1988 (S)
Orain (an tone)      321  894  2.61    (kcapita)27  260  01
Oil Crop (an tone)   7.7 13.2  7.01    Ve9etables        127  130  0.3O
Mulberry Silkworm                      Edible Oil        2.5  4.8  8.5S
Cocoon (O00tone)    250  394  5.91    Meat       d/    7.8 10.7  4.0-
Tea (0OOtone)        304  54S  7.61    Poultry          0.7  1.3  8.01
69  E            1.2  2 3  8.51
Fruit (000tone)      6793 16661 11.9S    Figh and Shrimps    1.1  1.9  7.11
of which
Apple              2363 4344  7.91                     Income Growth e/
Citrus              713 2560 17.31                   ------------------
(Yuan/capita)   1980 1988 (1)
Cattle (millon heads)  72  98  3.91    ---------------------- -----------
Hug Stock (an sde)   305  342  1.41    China             191  545 14.01
Hog elaughtered(an ,ide)  199  276  4.2%    Beijing     290 1063 17.6S
Meat (QOOtone)      12054 21936  7.8%    Ounngdong      274  809 14 S,
Millk (OO0ton) */   1618 3660 14 6X    Li oning         273  699 12 5X
Fine Wool (000tons) a/   202  222  1.61    Jilin         236  628 la0
Cashere (OOtons) a/    4  4.7  2.71    Inner Mongolia   181  499 13.51
Jiangxi          180  488 13.31
Freshwater Fish (O0Otons) 1480 3938 17.71    Shaanxi     142  404 14.01
Shrimps. Prawns (000tone) 469 1033 14.11    Guann,i      174  424 11.81
Hube,            170  408 14.41
Hunan            220  514 11.21
FuJ ian          172  613 17.211
*/ 1982-1988
b/ Annual avergt growth rate.
e/ Rural per capit consumption
d/ Pork, b*ef and mutton. The urban per capita consumption of "eat in 1988 wae 19.75 kg.
e/ Agriculturel household Incom per capita.
Source: China Statisticel Yebook
6.2            Domestic Demand.   The project would focus on production of high value
agricultural commodities and processing to capture additional value added. Most of
the commodities concerned under the project are currently in short supply. Domestic
demand for these commodities has risen rapidly in response to increases in
disposable incomes both in urban and rural areas and to changes in diet which have
been moving towards a more balanced composition. Expected increases in income at an
annual rate of about 6% in real terms during the Eighth Five Year Plan(1991-1995)
would result in further increase in demand for livestock products, fish and fruit as
consumers continue to vary diet intake while reducing direct consumption of cereals
and tubers. China's per capita human consumption of grain of 260 kg is already one
of the highest in the world. Given rising income levels, a continuous



45
diversification of China's diet is expected to occur. Local consumption of poultry,
meat, eggs, dairy products, and fisheries products has been constrained by supply
limitations. Per capita consumption of these commodities, while growing, is still
low compared to the world average and other developing countries. Pork dominates
meat intake with over 80% of total consumption. However, poultry has been and will
continue to increase its share at the expense of pork. China is the major consumer
of tea but its per capita consumption of 0.3 kg still lags far behind Hong Kong(l.73
kg), Japan(1.5 kg) and Taiwan(I.2 kg). China's tea consumption is expected to
increase *-o 0.5 kg by the year 2000.
6.3         Export potential and import substitution.  While partially filling the
gap created by growing domestic demand, the project would promote exports and
encourage efficient import substitution. The recent official devaluation of the
Yuan from Y3.71 to Y4.72 per US$ in December 1989 has already helped to reduce the
import bias created by the previously overvalued currency, and encourage exports.
China is a net exporter of all products produced by the project except raw wool and
paper. China's share in international trade in some of these commodities is
substantial and has been growing due to robust international demand. For example,
China's silk and cocoon export constitutes 902 of the world traded volume. On the
import side, China is also a main player; one third of the world's wool trade is
accounted for by China's imports which the project would help partially to
substitute. In addition, the project would substitute for imports of plywood and
paper. Good export potential would continue to exist for China provided cost
competitiveness is maintained and higher product quality is achieved. Toward this
end, the project would emphasize improved productivity, technology selection,
machinery procurement and enterprise management,
6.4         Among the major project outputs, export prospects are particularly
promising for Chinese traditional medicines, herbs, exotic vegetables, eel, bamboo
shoots, cashmere and other high value cash crops. These special products would add
to already successful exports such as poultry, beef and scallop. An exception to
this would be shrimp, whose supply has expanded rapidly particularly from Asian
countries including China, and whose world market prices have been on the downward
trend recently. However, the current market trend seems to indicate that the price
drop is more or less stabilized as keen competition in the world market is
streamlining the imbalance in supply and demand. China, in general, is a relatively
low cost producer of shrimp, and hence has been able to weather the adverse shrimp
market trend. This project would support only rehabilitation of existing shrimp
farms with an objective of improving yields while reducing cost of production.
Liaoning, one of the major shrimp producers, is richly endowed with wild marine
feed, which gives the province a competitive edge over other producers (para. 4.20).
The past export performance of some of the project products is summarized in Table
6.2.
6.5         Changing Consumer Preference: The project would also respond to changes
in consumer preference for increased convenience by canning, bottling, and
dehydrating of vegetables and fruit, and providing improved storage facilities which
would allow for year-around supply of perishable commodities and enhance financial
profitability by capturing the high off-season prices. While processors would
benefit from increased supply of seasonal products during off seasons by getting
higher prices and capturing value added, producers and consumers would also benefit
as farmers are able to sell their products more readily to processing industries and



46
consumers are able to buy seasonal products all year-round.
Table 6.2 ? rath of Export of Selected Project Commodities
1981          1988      Crowth rate (1)
(US11  m;ilIlon)  __ -  -- __-        -     ------------------
EXPORT   V. It    uantity   Value  Quantity  Value  Quantity    Value
Poultry, frozen   00tons  38.0  44.0  26.0  43.5  -4.81  -0.21
Pork, frozen   000tone)    71.3  115.8  78.3  117.8  1.41  0.8%
goof, frosen   000ton.  8.4  12.5  57.4  107.9  31.61  36.1s
Aquatic products 000tcne    115.7  352.7  264  932.9  12.51  14.91
Vegetables  000tone    470.8  214.8  765.7  476.1  7.2%  12.01
Dried Muslhrooe   00Otona  0.7  4.6  5.1  49  36.21  40 2%
Edible Funi;  C00tone  0.9  10.8  1.9  14.8  11.31  S.31
Oranges   000tons  33.4  12.2  74.7  38.3   12.21  17 81
Apple*    000tons  63.9  20.7  87.9  39.4    4.71   9 61
Toe  o.tone)    89.8   19,7   198.3  401.9  12.01  53.01
Raw silk  .O00tene  8.3  152.2  9.4  300.7   0.51  10.61
Caheer-e  tone)  2.4   60 7   22     190.6  181    17.61
Source: Chlne' Cuetoee Statlatice
B. Marketing Channels
6.6        Most of the project outputs and inputs are traded in free markets.  The
exceptions are fertilizer, pesticides and plastics used in cultivation; in some
provinces, local governments set urban ration amounts for pork, grain and sugar,
which are purchased through the government procurement system for distribution
through government shops. Free market trading has become increasingly important
over the last decade in response to price deregulation, and the lifting of quotas
and restrictions on long-distance trade. Nationwide, the number of free markets
more than doubled since the introduction of the reforms in 1979 and the value of
farm products sold in these markets increased more than six fold. Commodities not
subject to quota are marketed directly by farmers or through contracts with
distributors. Transportation to and from the wholesale market sites is currently
constrained and mostly dependent on small scale hauling on bicycles, animal driven
carts, or wagons. At the local level, farmers transport 50 to 100 kg of fresh
produce on bicycles, carts and even on buses to urban or suburban wholesale markets
to market the products themselves. The distance travelled varies between 20 to 100
km. Often farmers use middlemen to market products.  Farmers and vendors lease
stalls at a daily fee of about Y2 and also pay varying percentages (usually 2Z) of
their daily sales value as a fee. While the existing wholesale markets are working
fairly efficiently in large cities and suburbs, they are operating at full
capacities with no room to expand. The wholesale markets serve an important
function of aggregating goods for sale both inside and outside of the provinces and
providing outlets for distributing imports. The government attaches high priority
to the development of wholesale markets.
6.7        China's foreign trade is handled by several centralized foreign trade
corporations (FTCs) organized along product lines. FTCs are regulated by government
trade policies and supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade (MOFERT) and its provincial level, Foreign Trade Bureaus (FTBs). Until
recently, the national-level FTCs such as the Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import
and Export Corporation (CEROILS) and its municipal and provincial branches directly
conducted all trading activities ranging from the identification of markets, the
negotiation of prices and contracts to the procurement of goods from producers and
shipments to buyers. In 1988, and again in 1989, more authority was delegated to
selected provinces and their local jurisdictions to manage export marketing
directly. These changes allowed more flexible trade regimes, allocated more foreign
exchange to exporting provinces and entities, and encouraged export and import
marketing organizations more geared towards local needs. This also led, however, to



47
a proliferation of local trading houses, which in some cases were not fully
qualified to carry out intensive international trading actLvities. While foreign
trade is still largely controlled by the state sector, the recent decentralization
allows more immediate contact between producers and foreign buyers, thus
facilitating quicker responses to changing market demand.
C. Prices
6.8         Since the reforms were introduced in 1979, the main focus has been on:
(a) adjusting procurement prices for goods marketed through the state-run system;
and (b) reducing the volume and number of goods subject to state monopoly purchase.
The Government has also encouraged more open market oriented trading with gradual
price decontrol of fruits, vegetables, fisheries and livestock products, and a range
of other staple commodities. In response, the prices of these products rose ZO to
40? in the first half of 1980s, and the bulk of them are now being traded on the
free market. Notwithstanding this success, high inflation during 1988/89, sharp
supply and price fluctuations, and increasing state budgetary expenditure on food
subsidies led the Government to defer further price reforms.
6.9         Most of the project's output would be traded at market prices either
through private traders or to state agencies with few exceptions. Controlled
products would be sold at either contract or negotiated prices. Once producers meet
their quotas, the rest would be marketed in free markets. When products are in
short supply as is the case for many of the controlled commodities, the negotiated
prices are generally close to the free market prices as they tend to follow demand
and supply trends in the free market. Free market and state procurement prices have
risen steadily over the past few years. Retail prices of meat and aquatic products
rose substantially in 1988 and are close to world market prices. In some cases like
eggs, poultry, edible fungi, chilies, and ginseng, domestic prices exceed
international prices. The details of financial and economic prices of the project's
outputs and inputs are given in Annex 12 (Table 1).
6.10        For pork, tea, silk cocoon and ginseng, prices are controlled at both
farm gate and processing factory gate. The provincial governments set guidance
prices for these products in consultation with various agencies concerned. For
example, the state guidance price for meat is set in Liaoning by the Price and
Commercial Bureau, and the ginseng prices in Jilin are set by the Price Bureau in
consultation with the Bureau of Forestry. Prices of inputs are determined by the
Price Bureau and local Supply and Marketing Cooperatives (SMCs). The guidance
prices provide price floors and the ranges within which prices can be negotiated
between buyers and sellers. Actual price levels vary within the range based on
changes in production cost, market conditions, and local policy on nutritional
requirements. This guidance price system gives the state some leverage to determine
and direct the market prices and at the same time, gives sellers some control over
the prices at which they will sell.
6.11        Distribution of farm inputs, especially fertilizer, is regulated by the
government often linked with grain and non-grain product procurement. This is done
by setting rates of exchange with farmers who would sell their products to the state
in exchange for inputs at state-fixed prices. These forms of input subsidies have
been reduced since the reforms were introduced. However, input subsidy elements for
staple crops which are underpriced on the output side are likely to continue at



48
least in the medium term. Beyond quota amounts, farmers must purchase inputs in
free markets paying market prices.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production and Benefits
7.1         Incremental Production.  Major benefits of the project would be
incremental production and increased rural incomes. At full development,
incremental annual fruit production would be about 360,000 tons; vegetable and other
specialty crops of 170,000 tons; bamboo 1,000,000 tons; tea production of 40,000
tons; mulberry and cocoon production of 180,000 tons. Incremental animal stocks
would be 200,000 head of cattle, 450,000 head of sheep and 21 million poultry.
Incremental milk production would be 18,000 tons. Fisheries production would
increase annually by 13,000 tons of freshwater fish, 1,800 tons of shrimp and 6,000
tons of scallop. In addition, the project would increase fingerling production to
ensure adequate fingerling stock to be available to support the fishery subprojects.
At full development, incremental production value of the project is estimated to be
about US$600 million equivalent, of which agroprocessing subprojects would
contribute US$145 million.
7.2         This incremental production would be attained through expanded scale,
improved quality of inputs including fertilizers, irrigation, soil conditioning,
high yielding seeds, better rootstocks, adoption of new technologies and production
techniques, and improved human resources made possible by training and extension
services. Improved breed and feed nutrients, better disease control and animal
husbandry, and capitalizing on relatively unutilized rangeland resources in northern
Inner Mongolia would enable increased production of livestock. Rehabilitation of
the existing shrimp farms to reduce costs and increase yields would enable China to
maintain her competitiveness in the world shrimp market. Improved construction of
fish ponds and cages would convert waste land to economically productive resources
and better water flc. channels and feeding would increase fishery productivity. The
project would support diverse agroprocessing subprojects, such as processing of
exotic mushrooms and herbs, which would allow the project entities to capture local
comparative advantages based on locally available raw materials and in many cases of
local native varieties. Forward and backward integration under the project -- e.g.
feedmillers investing in livestock raising or large livestock farms investing in
feedmills and/or slaughterhouses -- would increase efficiencies in input and output
flow and speed up turnover of stock for higher profits.
7.3         Import substitution by many of the projects' subborrowers would save
scarce foreign exchange, while the export potentials of many of the products would
generate foreign exchange incomes. The project would also enhance the technical
know-how of many processing facilities either by improving an existing technology or
by introducing a new one. Further, improved cold storage facilities would make
seasonal and perishable products available over a longer period of time, hence
contributing to the improvement of dietary intake of fresh produce during off-
seasons. Improvement in slaughterhouse facilities and their operation would enhance
the quality of livestock products.



49
B. Employment, Income and Poverty Alleviation
7.4         Employment Generation:  Employment opportunities generated by the
project would help reduce existing seasonal unemployment and underemployment among
the rural labor force in and around the project areas. Substantial employment
generation is expected in the crop, livestock and fishery programs. The project
would directly generate around 27 million workdays, equivalent to 90,000 full time
jobs. In particular, additional employment would be created in remote mountainous
and rangeland areas where alternative job opportunities are limited.
7.5         Income Generation and Poverty Alleviation:  The project would have
substantial impact in increasing income to project beneficiaries. In most project
areas, per capita rural incomes are far below the national average of Y545. Even in
the relatively better off provinces, per capita income levels of many of the project
counties are far below their provincial average and income disparities among
counties are still widening. In Inner Mongolia, Jilin, and Liaoning (mainly in
grassland and mountainous areas), Jiangxi (tea areas), and in Guangdong (48 hilly
counties in the north), the local governments have designated several counties with
per capita incomes less than Y200-250 as poor areas for special development
programs. About one-third of all the counties included in the project are
classified as poor counties (para. 3.2). With one of the main objectives of the
project as poverty alleviation, selection of subprojects and sites has focused on
poor, mountainous areas where relative income levels are low and incremental income
benefits would be substantial while contributing towards narrowing of income
disparities. Thus, the project would supplement government programs in poverty
alleviation.
7.6         Women in Development: The major social benefit resulting from the
project, besides poverty alleviation, is improvement of women's position in their
roles as entrepreneurs, managers, and active participants in labor markets. The
borrower, ABC, has a substantial proportion of female high level staff both at
headquarters and in provincial branches with close to 28Z of the total bank staff
being women. The project would further strengthen women's role within ABC by
enhancing training components. In many of the subprojects, particularly in
processing activities, the proportion of women in higher managerial positions is
high. In subprojects involving individual households (e.g. small scale poultry
raising, mulberry and tea planting and primary processing), women play a predominant
role in managing production and sales as many of these activities represent side
income sources apart from the main grain production work which is mainly tended by
men. In China, when a borrowing entity is an individual household, no apparent bias
against women in granting credits exists. On the contrary, for these small
borrowers in the project, special attention would be paid that whenever financially
viable, credit would be provided to farmers irrespective of the borrower's gender.
Women would also contribute substantially to project production as laborers. A good
example would be tea production in Jiangxi. Traditionally, the labor force in
production and processing of tea, collection of mulberry leaves and silkworm
rearing, has been predominantly female. In addition, other processing and packing
activities including down and feather processing, bamboo shoot processing, meat and
fisheries products packing also provide job opportunities for women.



50
C. Environmental Benefits
7.7         The environmental impact of the project would be quite positive.  While
supporting livestock projects, the project would contribute to restoring of eroded
grassland and maintaining presently good grassland in Inner Mongolia by introducing
the Area Management Plan (AMP) approach to pasture-based livestock components. If
properly implemented, the potential benefits of AMP would be far-reaching beyond the
project areas and would have a profound long lasting impact on livestock development
in the province. For eel production in Guangdong, which relies on capturing of wild
fingerlings, resource management aspects pertaining to use of this depletable
resource have been emphasized to avoid a complete depletion of natural eel
fingerlings and consequent shutdown of eel production as experienced in neighboring
countries. The eel fingerling stock would be periodically reassessed and the
production of eel under the project would be adjusted accordingly. In assessment of
agroprocessing proposals, inclusion of proper waste water and solid treatments was
required. All agroprocessing sub-projects would follow industry specific pollution
control measures and comply with the provincial and national environmental
regulations on design of the treatment plants and the level of pollution permitted
under the law. For all ginseng production and processing components, ABC and
provincial governments would ensure that there will not be a net loss of forest due
to the project. Although a reforestation program following ginseng harvest already
exists, a more formal monitoring system with proper data would be maintained and the
Bank would follow up during supervision. This effort as already agreed upon by the
local governments would not only benefit the forest areas covered under the project
(20 ha, less than 1 Z of the total ginseng areas in Jilin) but also the vast forest
areas where ginseng is planted outside of the project area. Grain byproducts
processing to make paper would eliminate a need to dispose of huge wastes, and would
put them into productive use.
D. Financial Analysis
7.8 ABC carried out financial and economic analysis of most of the 160 subprojects
currently included in the lending program, following Bank Group procedures. The
Bank Group missions selected about 45 representative subprojects for a more detailed
analysis. For those activities for which detailed quantitative analysis has not
been carried out, the Bank Group staff qualitatively evaluated these with the help
of ABC and project staff. Cash flows after debt service are in general strong
reflecting the careful selection procedure followed, which included among others,
careful technical appraisal of investments and financial appraisal of borrowing
enterprises. For the cases where cash flow after financing is negative for the
first year or two (mainly because ABC does not allow capitalization of interest on
subloans), particular attention was paid to check that the sub-borrowers have own
resources or access to other sources of income/loans to pay ABC dues, so that the
risk of loan default to ABC could be minimal. Table 7.1 summarizes the financial
rates of return (FRR), economic rates of return (ERR) and net present value (NPV) at
122 discount rate for different categories of investment and major sub-projects.
These figures would change as the proposed investment may be adjusted and as new
investments are added during implementation. For illustration purposes, rates of
return for selected subprojects are shown in Table 7.1. Details of the financial
and economic analysis are provided in Annex 13.



51
Table 7.1: Summary of Rate of Return Analysis
(million Yuan)
Value of Investment   Rote of Return  Not Preoo,t    Not Promont
(Yuan million)     (I)            Volluo 0 121  Value 0 21
Financial  Economic     (F nanc;sl )  (Economic)
Crops          524          311         a6n        6So         d37
Fruit         238         261         291         248         264
Tom            53         211         m31          39          79
Others        239         381         ses         307         407
llvootock      453         27'         281         374          386
Pi a          41          345         341          SO         s0
Sheep         66          281         311          60         66
Goat           24         2816        261          is          14
Cattle        184         33S         341         182         184
Chickon       116         8s          1615        1SS        1t0
Oucks         17          161         16%         12           14
Others         5          3s3         381          7            9
Aquecultur.    198          271        261         219         16
Fishponda     96          311         271         127         116
Cage fisheris  34         261         291          40          43
Pro"n pond rehab.  33     281         221         40          22
Others        3S          211         26S         12           1s
Ageroprocessing  315       321          431        325          421
Fruit etorare  42         36%         411          43         s6
Li vetock products  33    221         251          32         38
Feod mills    18         38           451          28         39
Too processing    19      321         4051        14          l1
Forestry product    5     321         15S          7            7
Chinese medicine   83     40S         401         49          49
Others c/    148          291         4bS         188         214
Incommitted     366        n/s          n/.         n/.         n/a
Tot l Project  1490 ;/      241         271       168S         1944
a/ Total excluding the uncommitted smunt.
h/ Total itncluding the uncommitted amount.
ci/ IncuIdea Procesing of exotic, vegtables. edible fungi and other special products which command
high price In international mrkets.
E. Economic Analysis
7.9          The economic analysis for the principal sub-components of crops,
livestock, aquaculture and agroprocessing has been carried out in constant 1990
border prices. The World Bank commodity price projections are used for all the
applicable commodities. Where Bank projections are not available, the official
statistics on actual import and export prices realized by China have been used and
assumed to remain constant in real terms unless additional price projection
information based on detailed sector studies (e.g. for shrimp) are available. 15/
All investment costs including physical contingencies have been included. A
clearance was obtained that none of the project output is subject to Bank Group
restrictions. The official exchange rate of Y4.72 per US$ (which is close to
current market rates in China's foreign exchange adjustment centers) has been used
and all non-tradeable inputs and outputs have been adjusted using specific
conversion factors.  The selected conversion factors are summarized in Annex 12
(Table 2). ERRs for sub-projects analyzed range between 162 and 482 with a weighted
average of 27? for the project. The sensitivity analysis of selected subprojects
indicates that most of the subprojects would remain viable with increases in
investment or operating costs of 102 or drops in price or yields of 10? (Annex 13,
Table 1). Exceptions would be tea processing and production of poultry and prawn.
These investments are sensitive to changes in prices or operating costs as is
usually the case with such input-intensive investments. For these subprojects, ABC
would do case-by-case appraisal of subprojects to ensure that the proposed
investments would provide acceptable financial and economic rates of return.
15/ Asia-wide Shrimp Agro-industry sector study, June 1989.



52
F. Project Risks
7.10 The project faces no unusual technical, organizational or financial risks. In
the aquaculture component, scallop production, being an off-shore activity, is
susceptible to storm damages. Agroprocessing products, particularly of highly
specialized nature (e.g. oxytetracycline, pharmaceutical products, etc.), could face
market risks as they are not ready substitutes for other products. Technologies to
be adopted in agroprocessing are generally of standard designs and proper training
would be followed for safe and optimal operations. The project would introduce
financial and economic appraisal of subprojects to reduce the risk of subloan
default. The Government has agreed that an adequate spread would be allowed to
cover ABC's transaction cost as well as the cost associated with risk of bad loans.
To reduce transaction costs of project lending, ABC would use RCCs wherever feasible
for onlending and subloan collection and SMCs for agency services such as supply of
inputs and subloan collection. Financial appraisal of ABC's overall operations
including its capacity for project appraisal, has been carried out as a part of the
project appraisal and technical assistance would be provided by the project to
upgrade ABC's financial management, to reduce institutional risks in channeling long
term investments. In addition, enterprise appraisals would be carried out by ABC
for all enterprises, intermediary agencies and corporations which will handle
subloans, to reduce any institutional and financial risks from other activities they
are engaged in (para. 2.4).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1   During negotiations,  agreements were reached with the government that it
will: (a) make available foreign exchange needed for project implementation to ABC
and subborrowers (para. 5.20); (b) carry out with the Bank Group, by December 31,
1992, a mid-term review of the progress of implementing overall financial sector
reform and of carrying out the project (para. 5.23); and (c) carry out with the Bank
Group, by June 30, 1992, a study of rural investment and finance (paras. 4.26 and
5.11);
8.2   With respect te interest rates, interest spreads and ABC's overall financial
management and viability, agreements were reached with the government and ABC that:
(a) Interest rates charged by ABC on project subloans are sufficient to
permit ABC to retain an interest spread of at least 2.5? (after payment of income
and adjustment taxes to MOF) or such other spread as may be agreed between the
Government and the Bank Group; that interest rates on project subloans are not lower
than ABC's (RCCs'in the case of RCC subloans) for similar loans for similar purposes
and are positive in real terms; and that ABC will be given the authority to increase
the interest rates to final subborrowers to achieve the minimum spread of 2.52 on
project lending (paras. 5.23 and 5.24);
(b) Interest spreads on ABC's total lending operations (including commercial
and policy-based lending) will be sufficient to maintain ABC's overall financial
viability and profitability including provisioning of bad debts on the basis of
criteria acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 5.23);
(c) ABC will ensure that its equity is not less than 52 of its risk assets and



53
that ABC will establish, by the end of December 1991, a recapitalization plan
including mechanisms for equity replenishment and a time-table for implementation.
This recapitalization plan will ensure that ABC's risk-weighted capital adequacy
ratio is at least 8% within a reasonable period of time (para. 5.23); and
(d) ABC headquarters and branches will maintain separate accounts for project
subloans and expenditures and these will be audited by the State Audit Agency (SAA)
according to guidelines acceptable to the Bank Group. ABC will forward to the Bank
Group the audited project and annual accounts of total operations of the provincial
and municipal branches participating in the project, and ABC's total operations,
within six months of the close of the financial year (para. 5.26).
8.3 With regard to subproject implementation, agreements were reached with the
government and ABC on the following: (a) criteria for subloan approval (para. 5.12
and Annex 11); (b) organizational arrangements for project implementation including
establishment of Project Management Committees at the provincial and county levels
with participation of EPA representatives, and a review of TEG performance by the
end of December 31, 1991 (paras. 5.6 and 5.10); (c) the government and ABC will take
measures to protect environment in specific subprojects reviewed during Bank Group
appraisal (paras. 4.11, 4.19, and 5.29) and that all subproject activities will
conform to appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued by the provincial
and national governments and acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 5.29); (d)
implementation details of institutional development tasks (para. 5.11 and Annex 9);
(d) technical guidelines for planting and rehabilitation of apples (para. 4.4),
citrus planting and post harvest facilities (para. 4.5) and green tea rehabilitation
(para. 4.8); (e) strengthening of extension system and issue of technical packages
for mulberry planting, silkworm rearing, and bamboo planting and rehabilitation
(paras.4.9 and 4.11); (f) area limits on ginseng planting and rehabilitation and
related afforestation programs (para. 4.11); prior Bank Group review of selected
irrigation subprojects (para. 4.12); (g) grassland-based livestock development in
Inner Mongolia, Jilin, Shaanxi and Liaoning will be carried out using AMP concepts
(para 4.16); (h) the provincial governments will establish "cage area to open water
area' standards for cage fisheries to protect the environment (para. 4.19); and (i)
ABC will obtain prior approval of the Bank Group for subloans in excess of US$3
million, before being formally approved by ABC (para. 5.14);
8.4         Conditions of Loan and Credit effectiveness will be: (a) State Council
approval of the Loan Agreement and DCA and (b) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, acceptable to Bank Group, between the Government and ABC incorporating
onlending and repayment terms for proceeds of the IBRD Loan and IDA Credit to ABC
(para. 5.19).
8.5         With the above agreements and conditions, the project would be suitable
for an IBRD Loan of $75 million at the Bank's standard variable rate, repayable over
20 years with 5 years of grace, and an IDA credit of SDR 143.7 million (equivalent
of $200 million) on standard terms of 35 years maturity, to the People's Republic of
China.



54                          ~~~~~~Annex I
Table I
FOURTH AURAL CREDT PROJECT
Structural Chanos In th. Rural Economy
1062     1908    194      19ow     108      i9       1990
T.Or... NationalPolduct, 1912-OQ
(I  UusOl cv )?U81I d'P au.. Ipmr I egjg
Cross national product               608.0   557.8   088.1   716.0   77.8    454.5          0
Agrieteues                        192.3   208.7   23.8   239.8   2490.7   260e.6    21
gicultry                           285.7   258.0   207.4    3855.7    8.6    445.8   537.8
Sorvieco, otc.                      80.0    90.3    90.9   120.0   134.9   140.3   148.5
(Annuol porcentage hoano)
Croo natlional product                 8.8      9.6    18.5    13.1 S.0    10.5    11.2
,Sre  cultiou re dc                  11.7      .6.    13.0       1.7      3.7     4.9       3.2
Agriultur6.0                                 9.8    14.9    19.6        9.6    14.3    20.7
nd uyct, etc.                        7.3    12.9    10.6    20.7    11.8    10.0          (8.)3
TX. Labor Fore and Eplovoan,t  992-60
vLn usi|liOnS)
Labor foreo (and-year)               453.0   484.4   482.0   409.7   512.9   527.8    643.3
Urban                              114.8   117.5   122.3   128.0   182.9   137.8   142.7
Ru: uh ich:                                 848.9   859.7   870.7   379.9   890.0    00.7
of whXch:                       (7                                                    (740)
E"loyeao ofp rieN                          32.3    52.1    60.0    79.4    97.8    (2
III. Rural Soell Product
(tn bi l llas tOrflU a1 au  ON15 peics )
Rural soqial product                    MA    412.4 50   0      688.7   765.4   048.2  1,268.5
Agrisul ture                          MA    275.0   821.4   1%         401.8   467.6   590.5
Industry                              NA     92.8    116.1             2 8.0 .1    828.6   476.
Contructlon                           NA     32.1    37.1    51.0        9.2     72.3    S9.5
Tfrnoportation                        NA      8.8    13.8    19.0    24.5    38.4    48.4
Comoreo                               NA     14.4    18.9    27.0    32.8        41.3    65.8
(Copooitpton    pecemnt)
Rural snoeal product                    NA    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                           NA     66.7    68.4      57.1    58.1    49.6       40.8
aductry                    M~~~A   200     29    2760        3 85              S
ionedntrurgti                       MNA      20: 8     : 7:1            :a       I:'?    39.1
Transporttiton                        NA      2.0      2.8      3.0      8.2      8.5      8.5
Camerco                               NA      8.5      3.7      4.8      4.3      4.4      4.5
IV.  Ari tural Out   192-
roce yealue of agrtcultural output  282.8    250.8     280.    291.2   801.1   81.9   329.1
Fnaming                            165.3   170.9   1SO 3    192.6    194.6   204.9   204.5
Anil H dusbaney                     40.7    42.3    46.0       61.2    59.8      01.2   86.0
Fiahoey                              4.5      4.0      5.8      6.0   8.    .0.8    10.9
F_ry                                10.7      1.9    13.7      14.7    14.1    14.1    14.4
S3d11In produotion (?xcludin
ag,-run Inductr 1 IRoo)       11.6    12.9    18.0    20.6        24.8    28.6      32.2
V. Rural QIncooo 1982- 0
Incae  pao canpito                   270.1    009.6   35.8    807.6   429.0   462.0    544.0
ConsueinempIIuo(107.8)  320  l(4.)(770                                 0.      C2)(70.5)
;eavage                                      so (72  (801   (118.   (118.7)  (1  ( 42.    (166.4)
(In perenot)
Soureo of Rural Inco
Household Ooeati one                69.4    79.0    80.8    91.1    01.4         62.9    83.2
Collective Orot onp                 21.5    t1.?       9.9      8.4      8.5      9.1      9.1
Oth!r (i n boding rev tonco
and volofto paymotea)              9.1      9.4      9.7     10.5    10.1       a.0      7.7
Ioa oad on oaplo surveys.
Zn cleude xpoaditure on molIng.



55
Annex 2
Table 1
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM (1988) 1/
No. of branches       No. of employees       Assets
(Y billion)
Bazking System
Central Bank
PBC                      2,431                 131,827           405
Specialized Banks
ICBC                   29,998                  469,805           562
ABC                    50,777                  443,970           302
BOC                       959                   51,986           560  2/
PCBC                    3,298                  172,906           339
Universal Banks
BOCOM                     43                    5,620             NA
CIB                       28                    1,338               7
CITIC Ind. Bank            2                       143            NA
Cooperative Banks
RCCs                  60,872                  471,900            149
UCCs                   3,274                   54,888             21
Nonbank Financial
Institutions           3,683                   85,898             84  3I
1/ Source: PBC, Systems Reform Commission, and annual reports of four
specialized banks.
2/ BOC assets include foreign exchange transactions and PCBC assets
include trust and investment operations of the Ministry of Finance (budgetary
funds). If these assets are excluded, ABC would rank as the second largest
bank of China.
3/ Data incomplete. Includes TICs, PICC, finance companies, leasing
companies, security companies.



CINA
FPoRTH RURAL CEDIT PROJECT
ABC OSGAEIZATION AS A UOLE AND IN SIX PROJECT PROVINCES AND BEIJING IWNICIPALITY
ABC *a a whole                 Inner mongolIa              Shaanxi                    Jilin
________  _____ __  ____ _   __  _____------------------- __ ---------------------- ___ --- _-_- __-_- __-- _- __-___-_-_
1966     1967     19       196      1"?    1968       196       1"?      1968     1986     1987     1988
ABC Offices
___________
Provlcial  branoc                           28       28       29        1         1        1        1        1        1        1        1         1
Prefectural central subbranchea             290      298      303       12        12       12       10       10       10        8        8         8
County subbranches                        2.192    2.186    2.173       91        90       90       99       99      100       54        53       55
Buslness departments of central
subbrancho.                               206      208      209        9       10        10        2        s        5        2        3         4
Business office.                         28,297   28,947   30,045      960       975      980      872      877      879      599      620       620
Sowiag. offices                           6,342   11,737   17,162      224       322      424      170      343      939      143     5S6       826
Staff Numbers
Provlncacl  branch                        5,631    5.775    6.247      292       920      320      179      201      202      190      193       190
Prefectural central subbranches          20,459   20,9n2   22,060    1,395    1,342    1.380       658      753      697      640      661       708
County subbranch.e                      110,882  111,459  112.370    5.330    5,305    5,475    3,954    4,052    4,247    3,876    4,018    4.312
BusIness departments of central
subbronchea                             7,647    9,117    9.152      410      490       411       51       78      130      124      197       195
Busisas offlces                         213,375  227.169  240.671    4,509    4,649    4,808    6,687    7,038    6,871    7,709    7,963    7,950
Sowinas offlces                          10,741   17,157   24,195      376      764    1,087       452      505      979      128      479       445
Staff Composition
Nansoers *nd assitant m_eser             93e,548   96, 058  100,799    4,791    4,404    6,554    3.668    3.539    3,609    1.133    1,078    1,102
Accountants                              68,525   74,974   63,866    2,282    2,526    2,645    1.677    1,793    2,102    2.541    2,734    2,833
StatistciLans and planners               10,256    9.946    9,359      467      565       578      292      272      312      367       333      259
Auditors                                  5,865    6,244    6,754      249       265      278      284      265      262      228       233      251
Credlt officers                          53,955   55,324   55,107    2,506    2,657    2,587    2,289    2,518    2,273    3.051    3,194    3,202
Savings officon                          17,537   23,88    29,114      274      583       867      591      528      891      72t      921       965
Caeeiers                                 47,621   50,769   53,523    1,182    1,318    1,424    1,161    1,171    1,244    1,183    1,349    1,S26
teachIne  staff                           4,004    4,608    5,248      162      181       194       79       94       97      196       191      205
Other                                    66,114   91,990  100.206      399       391      372    2,649    2,911    2,789    3.646    3,930    4,152
Total                                387,425  413,836  443,976   12,312   12,890   13,479   12.690   13,091   13,581   13,063   13,963   14,295
Staff Qualifications
University 1 collage graduater
and equivalency                            NA       NA   40,459      646      802    1.034       511      980    1,157       NA       NA    1,465       It t 
Secondary vocational graduates                                                                                                                            JO I  13
and equivalency                            NA       NA  252,502    4,499    4,770    7,192    7,659    7,864    7,847        NA       NA    8,354       0  F 
Prlmery school graduates                                                                                                                                     N  X
and below                                  NA       NA  151,015    7,167    7,318    5,253    4,521    4,247    4,577        NA       NA    4,476
387,425  413,836  443,976   12,S12   12,890   13,479   12,690   13,091   13,581   13.063   13,963   14,295



CHINA
FO RTH RURAL CREDrT PROJECT
ABC ORGANIZATION AS A WHOLE AND IN SIX PROJECT PROVINCES AND BEIJING MUNICIPALITY
Continued
----,------------.----------------_-------------------__--.------------------__-----------_-----------------------------------------__--------------
LlaonlnB                   Jlangxl                    Guangdong                  Beijing
1986     1987     1988     1986     1987     1988     1986     1987     1988     1986     1987     1988
-----------------_-------------------------------------------------__--------__----------------_-------------------------------------------------__-
ABC Offlces
ProvLncial branch                            1        1        1        1        1        1        1         1        1        1        1        1
Prefectural central subbranches             13       13       13       11       11       11       12        12       18
County subbranches                          4S       45       45       99      100      104       87       87       83        15       16       16
Business departments of central
subbranches                               11       12       12        7        8        8       15       22        32
Buslness offices                           988    1,005    1,205    1,498    1,561    1,590    1,595    1,648    1,642        97      101      106
Savings offices                            225      507      896      294      460      633      440      940    1,275        32      57       61
Staff Numbers
Provincial branch                          210      253      290      164      172      183      282      269      252       170      226      232
Prefectural central subbranches          1,149    1,208    1,242      686      672      679    1,190    1,248    1,668
County subbranches                       3,302    3,043    3,540    3,943    3,862    3,950    5,290    5,209    5,036    1,382    1,487    1.535
Buslness departments of central                                       185      187      183                                                                   -
subbranches                              609      703      713    8,722    9,317    9,739      598      849    1,595
Business offices                         8,514    9,690    9,963      574      954    1,349   14,449   15,399   15,030    1,965    2,033    2,272
Savings offices                            338      517      867      168      245      310    1,281    2,068    3,258      164      256      299
Staff CempositLon
Managers and asslstant managers          2,539    2,539    2,521    1,129      950      993    5,629    5,695    6,202       933    1,183    1,111
Accountants                              3,089    3,313    3,413    2,914    3,153    3,277    5,294    5,878    6,180      961      936       942
Statisticians and planners                 480      446      491      347      327      369      449      494      490       ?5       70       71
Audltors                                   210      220      219      237      251      267      280      284      319       43       37       45
Credit officers                          3,076    3,226    3,441    2,983    2,547    2,531    3,650    3,325    3,472      459      447      439
Savings offlcers                           853    1,131    1,391      825    1,252    1,422    1,696    2,650    3,349      310      395      492
Cashiers                                 2,048    2,127    2,272    1,899    1,873    1,974    3,930    4,207    4,493      583      623      736
Teaching staff                             266      286      306       88      105      107      155      150      184        8       10       11
Other                                    2,710    3,532    5,117    4,020    4,951    5,453    2,602    2,845    3,111      309      330      491
Total                                15,271   16,822   19,173   14,442   15,409   16,393   23,685   25,728   27,800    3,681    4,031    4,338
Staff Qualifications
University & college graduates                                                                                                                          IV
and equlvalency                        1,624    1,831    2,086       NA      865    1,127    1,263    2,058    3,595      173      285      410        O 
Secondary vocatlonal graduates                                                                                                                          (8   (8
and equLvalency                        1,749    1,854    2,113       NA   11,109   11,437   13,036   15,951   20,629    3,341    3,603    3,826       (J  X
PrLmary school graduates                                             
and below                             11,898   13,137   14,974       NA    3,435    3,829    9,386    7,719    3,576      167      143      102
15,271   16,822   19,173   14,442   15,409   16,393   23,685   25,728   27,800    3.681    4.031    4,338



58
CFINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Intoroot Rates on DPoi!tond aljnd Intorbonkjperot,one. 1982-80
(In percent per annum; end of perlod)
1902    198i  19S   lo"8  1987    19s8   1989/  1890l/  160B0k
Apr   Aug                                    Apr    Aug
Individual
Sight                    2.89    2.68   2.68   2.68   2.86      2.88     2.88    2.68    2.16
Six months               4.82     5.40  6.12   6.12   6.12    e.4s    9.00    7.74   6.46
One year                 6.70    6.84   7.20  7.20   7.20    .8.4L! 11.84   10.08    6.04
Two years                 ...      ...   ...   ...   ...        9.18i 12.24   10.98   9.86
Three yeare              8.84     7.92   6.28   6.28   8.28     9.72/b 18.14   11.88  10.08
Five yGers               7.92     8.28   9.86   9.86   9.86   10:.6/b  14.94   18.68   11.62
Eight yeare              9.00     9.00  10.44  10.44  10.44    12.42/b  17.64  16.20  18.68
Institutionol
Sight                    1.80     1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60     2.-/q   2.88    2.68    2.16
Six months                ...      ...   ...   ...   4.82kc  8.48ft   9.00   7.74   6.48
One year                 8.60     4.82   4.82   4.82   5.04/i  8.64/i 11.84   10.08    8.64
Two year.                4.82     6.04   6.04   6.04   5.76ji  9.19/g  12.24   10.98    9.38
Three years              5.04     5.76 6.78   5.76    .48/   9.72/u  18.24   11.88   10.06
Five yoar.                ...      ...   ...   ...   ...   10. 0/g  14.94   18.66   11.62
Eight year.                ...     ...   ...   ...   ...   12.42?a  17.04  16.20  18.68
Treasury bonds
Individual.              6.00     9.00   9.00  10.00  10.00    10.00      ...    ...    ...
Instltutions             4.00     5.00   5.00   6.oo   6.00    6.00       ...    ...    ...
Financial bonds             ...      ...   9.00   9.00   9.00    10.OOL    ...    ...    ...
State construction bonds    ...      ...   ...   ...  10.50    9.60         ...    ...
PBC rates
Loans to specialized
banks
Planned                4 82Lo  4.68  4.68  6 48/f 7.20LO  6. 28/    ..   9.00   7.92
Temporary              4.82Le  5.04   5.04   8.46/f 6.48    0.6                 ... .4/h..
Deposlts by spcial-
lied bonk.
Required               4.32La   4.82  4.82  4.82  4.82        5.04/a    .      7.92     .
Other                  4.S2lo  4.a2  4.82   5.761f 6.78   6OALa    ...   7.92
lo Effective September 1. 1688.
li  Linked to the general retail price Index effective Soptember 10, 1988.  Interest paid lo the
higher of the cumulative inereaoe of the Index or tho interost based on the rate In the
Table.
/c Effective June 1987.
/d Three yearsl maturity.  Inteorst rate l 1 percent highor for each additional year of
maturity, up to 12 percent for five years.
/e Effective in 1984.
I! Effective August 1966.
Effectivo September 1987.
h Effective Septemr 1 1988. Applies to doily loono. The Intereat rate on seasonol loans Io
7.50 percent.
I Effective February 1, 1989.
Effective April 15, 1900.
ft Effectivo Auguot 21, 190.
Source: Poople's 1Dank of China.



59
FOtURH RI*AL CR80lT PROJECT
Intst    Ratosl an Loens. .   -e2.9O
'I eenpor     *nu;en        pe   d)
1982       1984   1985   1985   1987        1988            1989         199014       19901f
Apr    Aug                                            Mar          Aug
Stato industrial and commercial loans
Working capital (6 months to 1 year)   7.20         7.20   7.92   T.92   7.92        9.0014         11.341S        10.08         9.3S
Fined oaset loe^a
Ono yoer or leto                      5.04        5.04   5.04   7.92   7.92        9.0014        11.3414         10.08        9.36
One to three years                    5.76        S.76   5.76   8.64   8.84        9.90eA        12.784S         11.52        10.08
Three to five years                   e.48        6.48   6.48   9.36   9.36       10.804s         14.401S        13.14        10.80
Five to ten years                       ...                *   10.08  10.08       13.324a        19.2014         18.00       11.16
Over ton years                         ...         ..    ...  10.60  10.60        16.2014             14         20.70            14
Loano financed by ieoeo of ICBC bondo   ...          ...    ...  12-14  12-14         ...             ...            ...          ...
Credit ih plcac  of appropriation. k    ...          ...   3.60   3.60   3.60         ...             ...
Agricultural oans
Loans for collectivo crop production   5.76         7.20   7.20   7.92   7.92        9.0014         11.34/c        10.08         9.36
Leons for collectivo crop investment
One yoer or ess                        *-.        5.04   S.04   8.76   S.76        9.0014        11.3414         10.08            *a
One to three yearo                     ...        5.76   5.76   6.48   6.48        9.904R        12.7861         10.08
Three to five yeara                    ...        6.48   6.48   7.20   7.20       10.6014         14.4014        11.52          ...
Over five yearn                        ...        7,20   7.20   7.92   7.92       13.32L&        19.26           11.88          ...
Loans fInenced by locus of ABC bonds    ...          ...    ...  12-14  12-14         ...                            ...
Household.
Agricultural production loan              ...       7.20   7.92   7.92   7.92        9.0014         11.8414         0.94         9.36
Individual Industrial and cooereial
loono                                  ...       8.64   9.36--11.52    ...          ...          11.3414           ...        9.36
Loano for townohip enterprisoe           ...  7.20-7.92                  ...                        11.34/e          ...         9.36
Working capital                              ...         8.64   8.64   6.64        9.00/r         14.40/e         8.94         9.36
Pined a,oot loans                             ..        10.08  10.08  10.08  10.8-13.214  11.34-19.2614  10.08-11.88  9.38-11-1614
La  With effect from Septeaber 1. 1988.
lk  PCEC credit financed by onlending of budetargy funde.
/e With offoct from February 1, 1989.
/d  Based on compound interest for ono-yoer loans.
LI Effetl;ve March 21. 1990.
jf Effective August 21. 1990.
LS As per PKC schedule, interest ratoo on loans for agricultural development (other than fixed sasets and equipment) eith moturi-
tioes of laee then three yearn are currently at 9,36 percent and leans over throe yearo at 10.08 percent. Hoover. ABC is per-
eittedl to ineroaeo intorest retes en oubloans by 20 percent depending upon the oeurceo and cot of fund. usod for such lending.
Source: Pooploo Sank of China.



60
Annex 2
Attachment 1
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Appraisal of ABC 1/
1.           ABC's Financial Structure and Performance.   ABC's financial appraisal
as of December 31, 1988, indicated that within the framework of the government's
existing financial sector policies and regulations, ABC presents itself as a profit-
making institution and reasonably liquid. Since 1988, ABC has taken important
initiative for quantifying bad debts, has launched a massive loan collection
program, and taken steps to improve its overall financial management. However, over
time, ABC would need government approval and fknancial support to write off
accumulated bad debts by using equity, writing down of PBC loans (which funded
government policy loans) and improving upon the current profit retention scheme to
increase the capital base. On its part, ABC should upgrade its financial management
and operational efficiency. For this, ABC needs the Bank Group's technical
assistance which the proposed project would provide through a comprehensive
institutional development component (SAR, paras. 4.25-4.27 and Annex 9). Key
features of ABC's financial operations as of December 31, 1988 were as follows.
2.           Sources of Funds.  As of December 31, 1988, ABC's principal sources of
funds included deposits from enterprises, individuals and RCCs (45Z), RCC reserves
for deposits (8.7%), loans by the People's Bank of China (31.1Z), interbank
borrowings (2.6%) and credit funds and retained profits (12.4Z). Short-term
resources (including interbank borrowings, short-term borrowing from PBC, current
deposits and time deposits up to one year maturity) at Y 188.1 billion accounted for
about 592 of ABC's total resources (Y318.9 billion). ABC's longer term resources
comprising deposits with more than one year maturity, long-term borrowings from PBC,
RCC deposit reserves and equity accounted for 43% (Y135.9 billion). As at end of
1988, ABC's borrowings from the People's Bank with maturity of less than one year
amounted to Y24.67 billion (7.7Z of total resources) and long-term borrowings (with
no fixed repayment periods), Y74.71 billion (23.42 of total resources). 2/
3.           Uses of Funds.  About 90% of ABC's annual gross subloan disbursements
I/ ABC's financial appraisal is based on: a study of ABC's operations in two project provinces,
Jiangxi and Liaoning, by the Sema Consulting Group (France) on behalf of the Bank Group; six in-house
studies carried out by ABC as a part of the on-going Rural Credit III Project; ABC's nationwide Loan
Portfolio Review which was completed during 1989 with reference to outstanding loans as of December 31,
1988; and the Bank Group's review of ABC's operations and policies during the appraisal of the project
based on Its financial statements as of December 31, 1988 (Annex 2, Tables 6-10). Financial data for
CYl98s which became available during negotiations, has been Incorporated in Annex 2, Tables S and 8.
2/ In legal terms, all deposits are withdrawable on demand. By banking practice, a core of
deposits can be considered as long-term and used in longer term investments. For the purposes of
ABC's financial analysis, all deposits over one year maturity are considered as longer term
because of their relative stability. Even if only 10% of ABC's total deposits are considered as
a core of funds asailable for longer term Investments, ABC's total longer term resources would be
about Y108 billion compared to its longer term investments of Y87.5 billion.



61
which increased from Y298 billion ($80 billion) in 1986 to Y540 billion ($145.9
billion) in 1988, were for short-term working capital loans. Outstanding short-term
loans as of December 31, 1988 accounted for about 892 of the total loans.
Outstanding long-term loans (i.e. special loans, development loans and loans for
fixed assets and other longer term loans merged in working capital loans) amounted
to about 11% of total loans or Y28.9 billion (Annex 2, Table 7).
4.          Maturity Structure of Assets and Liabilities.  ABC's longer term
resources (liabilities) at Y130.8 billion were about twice its longer term assets at
Y67.5 billion. ABC's longer term assets included longer term loans (Y28.9 billion),
reserve deposits with PBC (Y33.5 billion) and fixed assets (Y5.10 billion) and
accounted for 211 of the total assets. About Y63.3 billion of ABC's longer term
resources had been deployed in short-term lending which provides a relatively high
current ratio of 1.5:1 for a commercial bank like ABC. ABC's short-term assets
accounted for nearly 78.6% of the total assets. Much of the ABC lending being for
working capital and procurement of agricultural products, is self-liquidating (price
subsidies on urban sales of grains financed by ABC are remitted by MOF directly to
ABC).
5.          Liquid Assets.  ABC's liquid assets (comprising cash and deposits with
other banks) at the end of 1988 were at about 9.5% of total assets, recording an
increase of 19% in nominal terms and decline of 91 in real terms over 1986. While
ABC was able to maintain a satisfactory liquidity position during the past three
years, it was clearly tighter in 1988 than in 1986, as ABC had to finance its
incremental liquid assets by increased inter-bank borrowings at a relatively high
cost. Increased reliance on interbank borrowings was necessitated by ABC's reduced
access to PBC borrowings in the wake of restrictions imposed by national credit
policy.
6.          ABC's Interest Rate structure and spreads.  Interest rates for deposits
and loans are set by PBC for all banks including ABC to serve multiple goals (SAR,
para. 2.22 and Tables 2 and 3 to this Annex). Basically, PBC sets interest rates on
deposits to sustain financial savings. Lending rates are set on the basis of the
average cost of resources to financial intermediaries, priority of credits, and
expected transaction costs to financial intermediaries. As regards interest
spreads, the Bank Group's financial appraisal of ABC's Liaoning and Jiangxi branches
showed that during 1988, the interest spread (difference between the average yield
on interest bearing assets and average cost of interest bearing funds) increased
from 2.2-2.4Z in 1986 to 3.2% in 1988, contributed mainly by relatively low cost of
current de osits of enterprises and borrowings from PBC and increased interest rates
on loans. /
7.          During 1986-88, ABC's overall interest spreads were adequate to cover
operational costs (Table below) but these not were sufficient to build provision for
accumulated bad debts (para. 25 below). Between 1988 and 1989, while the average
yield on loans increased by 35%, the cost of commercial funds used for lending
increased by 67% reflecting the general increases in interest rates on deposits.
S/ By loan categories, the interest spreads ranged as follows: industry (3.6%), commerce (2.1%),
TVEs (3.7%), agriculture (2.1%), long-term loans (5.%), and interbank transactions (Z.0%). Commercial
loans vhich are generally large in size and have relatively low operational costs, contribute the most to
ABC's profits.



62
ABC's Interest Spreads on Commercial Funds and Lending
CY   1986         1987      1988        1989
Average interest received
on loans (Z)        4/           6.06        6.55      7.64         10.33
Average cost of funds used
for lending (Z)   5/            2.69         3.28      4.32          7.22
Interest spread  6/    3.37           3.27      3.32          3.11
8.           Cost of different types of interest bearing liabilities.            During 1988,
savings deposits were the most expensive source of funds to ABC. A study of ABC's
transaction costs in Anhui province (under Rural Credit III project) indicated that
while the average cost of raising interest bearing resources was about 6.3?, the
cost of savings deposits was as high as 12.2X. Cost of raising enterprise deposits
ranged from 2Z to 62 depending upon maturity (PBC-prescribed schedule provides low
interest rates for enterprise deposits). Pro-rata overhead costs (comprising
expenditure on staff, fixed assets, and miscellaneous overheads), was at 2.8? in the
case of savings deposits and much lower for enterprise deposits (0.2 to 0.4X).  As
regards resources other than deposits, the cost of PBC loans was about 6.22, 7/
Average cost of interbank borrowings was at 11.2?, and of interbranch borrowings,
9.6Z. Overhead costs on interbank borrowings were 0.8?, and on interbranch
transactions at a surprisingly high rate of 4.3? (possibly because this included the
cost incurred at higher level branches which approve and monitor these loans). The
average cost of longer term resources had been about 7.5? while that of interbank
borrowings around 8.82.
9.           Effect of indexing of interest rates on ABC's cost of funds.  In
September 1988, the government introduced for all banks including ABC, an indexation
of household deposits for three years and above, mainly to discourage increasing
4/ Excludes Income on agency and Interbank business.
S/ Average cost of interest bearing funds; MOF contributed credit funds aro assumed as interest
f roe.
6/ As a part of restrictive credit policy aimed at reduc ng iiflotion, PBC increased interest rates
on deposits and loans In February 1989, and with the deceleration of the Inflation rate since January
1990, reduced the interest rates on deposits and loans, twice in March/April and August 1990 (Annex 2,
Tables 3 and 4).
7/ PBC's interest rate on short-term (annual) loans given as a refinancing facility or for
liquidity management during 1988 was 10.44X (reduced to 7.92% In August 1990). However, PBC's older
loans (with no fixed maturity), which are basically funding loans disbursed from 1979 onwards carry
interest rates of 6.481-7.56 and are used In financing procuremont of agrieultural staple crops for
China's urban food supply. These funds are not usod for financing investments In longer-term assets and
are part of a broad national policy of subsidizing food supplies for 200 million urban dwellers. They
have no impact on resource allocation by ABC or Its competitiveness vis-a-vis other intermediaries, since
credit ceilings and not Interest rates remain China's most important monetary policy Instruments.



63
disintermediation of savings deposits which was contributed by inflationary
expectations. The inflation-indexed deposits carry a 'subsidy' in addition to the
quoted interest rates. The subsidy ensures that the real interest rate on the
indexed deposits at maturity is no less than zero. 8/ Currently, ABC is authorized
to charge interest on loans financed by indexed deposits from households at rates
higher than the normal prescribed rates to cover the additional cost of such
deposits.
10.          Operating costs.   ABC's operating cost excluding interest paid,
increased from 0.95? of total assets in 1986, to 1.22 in 1987 and 1.4Z in 1988, as
against the average interest spread of about 3%. ABC's administrative expenses
(including salaries) are relatively small and increased from 0.552 of total assets
in 1986, to 0.6? in 1987 and 0.752 in 1988 mainly due to expansion of staff and the
branch network and general price increases (Annex 2, Table 6 and explanatory notes).
ABC's "Other expenditure' includes payment of business tax at 5Z of the gross
income, provisions for welfare and development funds, pension funds, and starting
from 1988 provision for bad debts. Excluding provisions (such as development fund
and provision for bad debts in 1988), ABC's "other expenditure" as a proportion of
total assets, increased from 0.42 in 1986, to 0.59% in 1987, and to 0.65% in 1988,
the increase was mainly on account of payment of business tax and the cost of staff
welfare programs including payment of bonuses under the newly introduced contract
system (para. 16 below).
11.          Net Profit and Profit Transfers to Equity.  ABC's net "profit" (or
surplus of income over expenses) after payment of business tax amounted to Y 3.581
billion in 1986 (1.5Z of total assets), Y 4.322 billion in 1987 (1.56% of total
assets) and Y 5.6 billion in 1988 (1.75 Z of total assets) in 1988. Excluding
provisions for bonus, the net profit as a percentage of total assets was 1.36% in
1986, 1.462 in 1987 and 1.56 X in 1988. Thus, in spite of increases in operational
costs, ABC's net profit generally improved. ABC paid income-tax (55Z) and
adjustment tax (7?) to MOF amounting to Y 1.737 billion in 1986, Y 2.315 in 1987 and
Y2.554 billion in 1988.  The balance of profit was transferred to the Credit Fund
(equity), which increased from Y23.62 billion in 1986 (9.83% of total assets), to
Y24.83 billion in 1987 (8.94? of total assets) and to Y26.01 (8.15% of total
assets). Thus, during the past three years, although the absolute amount of equity
increased, its proportion to total assets declined by 1.682. 9/
12.          Issues in ABC's financial Management.  Based on the above analysis, the
following aspects of ABC operations are reviewed below: quality of ABC's loan
portfolio (credit risks), arrangements for creating provision for/writing off of bad
debts, implications of bad debts to ABC's liquidity and profitability (interest
spreads) and adequacy of credit funds (equity), and options available for
8 / Indexing of deposits is only partial, measured by the change In the general price index,
between the quarter prior to the date the deposit is made and its maturity. Further, use of simple
interest rate (no compounding) by Chinese banks, does not guarantee that purchasing power of savings
deposits would be maintained.
9/ During CY1989, ABC's net surplus (before income and adjustment taxes and an approximate provision
for bonus at Y300 million), was lower at about Y3.7 billion or about 0.97% of total assets as against
1.761 of total assets In 1988 mainly because of higher cost of depooits and borrowings. The balance of
profit transferred to the Credit Fund (equity) was also lower at Y1.2 billion (as against Y1.6 billion in
1988), raising the Credit Fund to Y26.98 billion or 7% of the total assets (Annex 2, Tables 6 and 6).



64
replenishment of the Credit Fund.
13.           ABC's Recent Loan Portfolio Review.  The main objective of ABC's recent
nationwide review of the loan portfolio was to begin the process of cleaning up of
its balance sheet by segregating nonperforming assets, evolving specific measures to
collect or restructure or write off nonperforming assets, and upgrade overall
financial management and profitability. The review sought to establish an authentic
data base on the quality of the loan portfolio as of December 31, 1988 indicating,
by sub-branch and purpose, the amounts of loans in arrears, sticky loans and bad
loans. 10/
14.          The portfolio review focussed on speeding up collection of overdue loans
and interest through legal actions, sale of mortgaged properties, restructuring of
enterprises, and by requiring sponsoring agencies to honor their loan guarantees.
The review process required the branches to update financial appraisal of all
borrowing enterprises and, if justified, reschedule loans outstanding against them.
In the case of current loans where credit risks were high, ABC branches asked for
further collateral or financial guarantees from the sponsoring agencies. In
instituting the portfolio review, ABC management also aimed at upgrading decision-
making processes and accountability in loan approvals and collection, and introduce
a portfolio management information system, criteria for credit rating of
subborrowers and guidelines for ranking of branches by their subloan collection
performance.
15.          The portfolio review involved all branches with supervisory
responsibility given to prefecture and provincial branches. Some 100,000 staff was
deployed for this review and every loan outstanding as on December 31, 1988 was
reviewed. To avoid any temporary adjustment of arrear loans using RCC funds or
loans from ABC's subsidiary Trust and Investment Corporations, ABC concurrently
launched a review of RCCs' loan portfolio as well. This enormous task was completed
with professionalism, speed and efficiency. At all levels, ABC established special
Loan Portfolio Review Offices with responsibility to ensure that the review was
carried out objectively and within the time schedule. To ensure that the branches
remain accountable for the Review decisions, ABC HQ informed them that if any
irregular loan is not classified as such at the time of review, responsibility for
any subsequent classification of that loan as sticky or bad, would have implications
to the eligibility of concerned staff for future bonus, and of the branches with
regard to the amount of profit to be retained by them.
10/ By ABC definition, sticky loans are generally those which are in arrears for principal and
Interest for more than two years and include loans to erstwhile brigades and communes where borrowers
have been Identified but repayments are not forthcoming; loans to enterprises which are closed or have
stopped production (for reasons such as lack of market, raw materials or working capital, or due to
prevailing government policy, or bad management); loans which have been used for unauthorized purposes,
loans to households or enterprises on the brink of bankruptcy, and loans disbursed by Supply and
Marketing Cooperatives (for production of specific commodities) at the behest of the government, for
which MOF has asked ABC not to collect principal and interest. ABC reported that on 80X of the loans in
this category, it still receives interest. Bad loans include loans for which the borrower could not be
identified, or borrowers were completely bankrupt, or loans were affected by natural disasters and must
be written off.



65
16.         ABC provided financial incentives to the branches and staff to
accomplish the massive task of portfolio review efficiently and on time, and to
borrowers for cooperating with the review process. Incentives provided to the
branches, staff and borrowers, included the following. The branches could retain
the resources generated by collection of agricultural loans to erstwhile commune
members for new lending; waive interest on loans disbursed to collectives prior to
the introduction of the household responsibility system (1979) and to TVEs
established before the beginning of enterprise reforms, i.e., prior to 1984, if such
enterprises repay the loan; waive penalty interest to enterprises which went
bankrupt during 1985-87, if the restructured enterprises regularly amortize the
outstanding loans as per new repayment terms; use RCCs on a commission basis to
collect loans and allow RCCs to use the amount collected for 2-3 years for their own
lending; use farmer cooperatives and marketing stations for loan collections on a
commission basis; and pay commission to staff on the amount of interest collected on
loans disbursed prior to 1979.
17.          Results of the Portfolio Review.   Based on the results of ABC's
portfoliu review and discussions with different branches during appraisal, the Bank
Group mission came to a view that, by and large, about 20% of ABC's outstanding
loans are overdue (i.e. outstanding beyond the due date); and that out of overdue
loans, about 3Z of total outstanding loans are "bad" i.e. irrecoverable and must be
written off; about 7-8% of ABC's total loans are sticky, i.e., difficult to recover
for various reasons (for definition, see footnote 10); and the balance of about 8Z
of total loans are in arrears which would require rescheduling with corresponding
restructuring or rehabilitation of enterprises.
18.         ABC reported that on about 60-80Z of the sticky loans, ABC still
receives interest and that not all such loans were likely to go bad. ABC branches
are taking several measures to make sticky loans active including legal actions,
restructuring and merger of borrowing enterprises, rescheduling based on updated
financial appraisal of the activities financed, securing additional collateral for
loans, and providing incentives to branches and staff to collect loans, and to
borrowers to repay loans to make these loans active. At this point, it is,
therefore, difficult to estimate what proportion of the sticky loans would finally
go bad. However, at appraisal, the Bank Group mission estimated that about 30-402
of the sticky loans (i.e about 2-3% of the total loans) may eventually go "badf, and
with 3% of the loans already identified as bad, the cumulative amount of bad debts
(including the loans which ABC took over from the People's Bank in 1979) could go up
to 5Z-61 of the outstanding loans as of December 31, 1988 (Y263.16 billion) i.e., at
about Y 13 billion. ll/
19.         As regards the chances of "arrear" loans going bad, since the
classification of loans as bad, sticky and arrear was done only recently and that
the arrear loans which were likely to go sticky or bad have already been included in
II/  At negotiations, ABC provided final data on bad debts by which the bad and sticky loans as of
December 31, 1988 were at 2.43X (Y6.4 billion) and 7% (Y18.4 billion) of he total loans at Y263.16
billion. Assuming that 40% of sticky loans could go bad, the total bad ,-bts as of December 31, 1989 are
estimated at Y13.8 billion or about 6% of total loans. ABC indicated that as of December 31, 1989, its
bad debts were at about 2.18% of outstanding loans (Y379.1 billion) or Y6.6 billion and sticky loans at
7% or Y21.3 billion. By ABC's assessment, the figure of bad debts (including a portion of sticky loans)
as of December 81, 1989 worked out to about Y11 billion.



66
respective categories, it could be assumed (and this was confirmed by ABC) that
loans in "arrear" category could be collected in full.
20.         ABC's recent subloan collection performance.  ABC's annual loan
collections, as a percentage of gross loan disbursements (which increased from Y329
billion in 1986 to 509 billion in 1988) were 90.5? in 1986, 92.2? in 1987 and 94.3Z
in 1988 (Annex 2, Table 7). For commercial loans which accounted for about 79X of
ABC's aggregate annual gross disbursements, or Y320 billion (of which 99? are on a
short-term basis), the collection rate was about 95-96X.
21.         Subloan collections are relatively low in the case of collective
agricultural enterprises (79Z). For township and village enterprises and state-owned
enterprises subloan collection range around 90X of gross disbursements. Even after
allowing for the fact that term loans (about 10? of the total) are repayable in
installments, it is clear that ABC's outstanding loans include a sizeable proportion
of overdue loans, estimated at about 20? of outstanding loans as of December 1988.
Subloan collections for all the three categories should be substantially improved.
22.         In the case of loans to industrial enterprises, loans for acquisition of
fixed assets, poverty alleviation loans, development loans and special loans for
infrastructure, which enjoy repayment periods of 5 to 7 years, the annual
collections have ranged: 36X of gross disbursements for industry (12.4Z of
outstanding loans plus new disbursements); 7.4X for poverty loans which are fully
funded by the People's Bank, 49.21 for development loans and 65? for special loans.
For loans in these categories, ABC must apply improved loan appraisal, supervision
and collection strategies. These aspects will be addressed through the project's
technical assistance component (Annex 9). ABC should also introduce monitoring of
subloan collections with reference to installments fallen due rather than
outstanding loans.
23.         ABC's general experience in regard to the collection of one year working
capital loans is that arrear loans (usually about 102 of annual gross disbursements)
are partly rescheduled and recovered to the extent of 902 in the following 3-4
years. Legal action is needed for recovery of the balance. Eventually about 0.5?
of the gross disbursements go bad. As regards development loans (longer term
loans), which account for about 10? of the annual gross disbursements, the incidence
of bad debts is higher (statistical indicator not available). ABC indicated that,
by and large, annual accumulation of bad debts works out to 1? of outstanding loans
at the end of each year. This partly explains why cumulative bad debts (i.e. bad
debts against loans which ABC took over from PBC in 1979 as well as those against
subloans disbursed after 1979) are now about 5Z-6? of the total outstanding loans.
24.         Existing arrangements for writing off of bad debts.  Until recently,
China's banks including ABC did not have a system of collecting data on arrear loans
with reference to due dates for loan repayments, and separately for principal and
interest due and collected. Also, the banks did not have a system for collecting
information on age-wise classification of outstanding loans. ABC's recent portfolio



67
review substantially corrected this deficiency. 12/ ABC is also introducing a loan
portfolio management system to update semi-annually the information on loan
collection performance. Rescheduling of loans was common in ABC for reasons such as
natural disasters, but in the absence of well-defined criteria, rescheduling
decisions tended to be ad hoc, not necessarily assuring sufficient relief to
subborrowers and rehabilitation of the projects financed. Local governments
provided subsidies to affected subborrowers, but also on an ad hoc basis subject to
availability of funds. Bad debts had been carried in ABC books for unduly long
periods contributing to high overheads, except that about Y2 billion disbursed prior
to 1979 for farm machinery were written off during 1984 and 1985. Until 1988, ABC
profits were fully transferred to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and no provision was
made for writing off bad debts. Recent government guideline (which became effective
from 1988) provides that specialized banks (including ABC) could make provision for
bad and doubtful debts at the rate of 0.1-0.21 of outstanding loans which seems
inadequate considering the amount of outstanding bad and sticky loans carried by the
specialized banks. In 1988, ABC provided, for the first time, Y300 million for bad
debts against estimated outstanding bad debts of Y13 billion.
Portfolio Review Findings : Issues in and Implications to ABC's Credit
Risks and Financial Viability.
25.         Financing of Bad debts.  Currently, ABC's main sources of financing
nonperforming loans are: Credit Fund or equity contributed by MOF plus annual profit
transfers to Credit Fund, which cumulatively amounted to Y26 billion as at the end
of 1988. If the entire amount of bad debts (at Y13 billion) is notionally written
off from the Credit Fund (equity), the Credit Fund would be reduced by about half to
Y13 billion and ABC's total own funds (i.e. the Credit Fund, retained profits and
the fund for fixed assets) from Y31.11 billion to Y18.11 billion. Consequently, the
proportion of owned funds to total outside liabilities (Y291 billion) will decline
from 11% to about 7?, and to total assets from 102 to 6X. Also, the proportion of
owned funds to loans (risk assets) would be reduced from 12? to about 7Z reducing
the cushion for future bad debts. By international standards, equity of 7? would
not be considered low for a deposit-taking institution like ABC, if interest spreads
are adequate to cover operational costs, make sufficient provisions for bad debts
and pay return on equity at the opportunity cost of capital. The government and ABC
must, therefore, consider instituting arrangements for increasing the provisions for
bad debts and recapitalization of ABC.
26.         PBC's Long-term loans to ABC.  It could be interpreted that ABC is
financing its entire nonperforming loans by long-term borrowings from PBC. PBC's
long-term loans as of December 31, 1988 amounted to Y74.71 billion. These loans
which were disbursed over the past decade (including the amount earmarked as "loans"
when ABC was separated from PBC in 1979) do not have any fixed maturities. Several
loans which have now gone bad were disbursed by ABC at the behest of the government
and were funded by PBC loans. Clearly, ABC would not be able to repay PBC loans
unless corresponding subloans are recovered, without further sacrificing its
12/ Previous IDA-assisted Rural Credit projects required ABC to colloect data on arrears for
subloans disbursed under the projects pending Introduction of a system-wide MIS. As noted, one of the
six In-house studies under Rural Credit III project (i.e. loan collection and write-offs) was
specifically designed to review ABC's loan recovery procedures and performance and the management
Information system nooded.



68
profitability. If ABC's balance sheet is to be cleaned up, the government has two
options: (a) MOF should admit writing off of bad debts from the Credit Funds
(equity), or (b) PBC should write down its outstanding loans with ABC. Option (b)
needs further study and review by the government and ABC, especially to ascertain
what proportion of ABC's loan arrears represent government policy loans for which
PBC has provided budgetary funds, for which writing down of PBC loans seems to be
the only option.
27.         ABC's liquidity and profitability: Constraints to recapitalization of
ABC. ABC has taken the first important step of completing a comprehensive review of
its portfolio. The next step for ABC is to present the findings of the portfolio
review to MOF, PBC (and later to the State Council) and work out ways and timing for
writing off of bad debts. Although ABC's deposits are implicitly guaranteed by the
government as to the payment of principal and interest, accumulating bad debts in
ABC books could eventually lead to a charge on the budget through reduced ABC tax
remittances to MOF or additional equity contributions to ABC. The government must,
therefore, articulate and introduce strategies for recapitalization of ABC,
including providing increased interest spreads through flexible interest rate
policies, provisioning for bad debts, and allowing ABC to retain a larger proportion
of annual profits for business development. Assurances in this behalf were obtained
from the ABC and the government at negotiations (SAR, para. 5.23).
28.         Meanwhile, ABC on its part proposes to introduce several measures to
upgrade its financial management using the proposed project's technical assistance
component (Annex 9). These measures include the following:
-- Currently, ABC lending takes place within the framework of annual
credit plans and ceilings approved by PBC and the government. However,
increasingly, ABC branches will undertake longer range business planning with
greater sectoral, regional and technical assessment backed by financial forecasting;
-- Recent studies have shown that, within the annual credit plans, ABC
branches enjoy considerable autonomy to approve individual subloans. This autonomy
will be further strengthened by asking the branches to approve subloans on well-
defined criteria of credit-worthiness (including enterprise appraisal), technical
feasibility, and profitability (Annex 11);
-- Following up on the loan portfolio review, ABC will introduce a
comprehensive monitoring system with effect from January 1990 which will require the
branches to report quarterly and semi-annually the portfolio condition indicating
regular loans, arrear loans, sticky loans, bad debts and actions taken to collect
overdue loans and interest;
-- ABC would introduce credit-rating criteria for all subborrowers
(especially enterprises) which will determine their eligibility for loans from ABC;
-- ABC has already introduced a contract system at all levels since
January 1988 which has revitalized its operations. Under the contract system, ABC
management agrees with MOF on a number of targets including the amount of income tax
to be paid. Profits in excess of the targeted amount are retained up to 90Z within
ABC system for business development and rewards to staff. The contract system will
be broadened to include more financial indicators, and focussing efforts on



69
upgrading the quality of the loan portfolio including collection of past due loans;
-- ABC has recently placed a strong emphasis on upgrading its internal
audit system which needs further strengthening in terms of staff deployment,
training and coverage which process will be strengthened during the coming years;
-- ABC will upgrade banking skills of its middle and senior level staff
in sectoral and technical appraisal of investments proposed for financing, loan
portfolio management, cost accounting and financial control, and assets and
liabilities management. Staff training and development would focus on these aspects;
-- ABC will review its management information system (including
computerization plans) through the proposed project.



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Bank of China
(as of Deceniber 31. 1986, 1987. 1988 and 1989)
(Y billion)
......................................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................
Liabflities (Sources of funds)        1986      1987      t988      t989        Assets (Application of funds)         1986      1987      1988      1989
................................................................. .................................................................................................................. ....... ................. ...................
Deposits:  1/                                                                   Loans:  2/
Industrial enterprises  3/              1.92      2.55      2.89      2.84      Industrial enterprises  3/              9.98    13.35    IS."        18.92
Camrcial enterprises  4/               19.67    22.17    25.32    26.62         Commercial enterprises  4/            124.20   138.87   156.94   187.34
Township and vitlage                                                            fixed assets  6J                        3.85      4.69      5.85      6.56
enterprises  5/                        4.57      5.43      6.22      5.63      Township and village
State-owned agricultrual                                                         enterprises  5/                       28.77    34.97    40.77    42.06
enterprises  7/                        8.35      9.47      9.22      9.43      State-owned agricultural
Collective agricultural                                                          enterprises  7/                        8.95    11.11    13.41    16.45
enteprises  8/                         0.99      1.23      1.51      1.67      Collective agricultural
Rural credit cooperatives  9/          26.59    28.55    28.72    32.09          enteprises  8/                         6.52      7.21      8.28      9.58
Individuals  1O/                       25.77    42.62    59.37    84.85         Individuals  10/                        6.41      7.93      8.68      9.06
RCC reserves for deposits  II/         22.91    26.45    27.77    29.07         Rural credit cooperatives  9/           4.21      3.65      3.37      3.40
Others  15/                            11.68    11.33    10.36    13.35         Poverty alleviation Loans  12/          0.02      1.35      2.66      3.77
Development loans  13/                  1.57      2.06      2.50      3.13
Subtotal                          122.45   149.80   171.38   205.55        Special loans  14/                       1.16      1.61      2.26     2.60
Others  16/                             4.13      5.52      3.00      2.94
Borrowings from PBC  17/                 77.47    83.45    99.38   118.29                                                                                                0
Interbank borrowings  18/                 1.27      5.31      8.55    15.98           Subtotal                          199.77   232.32   263.16   305.80
NOF contribution (Credit Fund) 19/    22.53    23.44    24.49    25.70
Retained Profits  20/                      1.09     1.39      1.52      1.23   Deposit reserve with PBC  231              10.89    16.09    20.23    25.88
Fund for fixed assets  21/                3.40      4.12      5.10      5.99   Deposits in PBC  24/                      17.69    14.15    13.26    25.00
Others  22/                               12.00    10.12      8.46      6.38   Interbank transactions  25/                 3.78     6.62    12.24    10.50
Fixed assets  26/                         3.40      4.12      5.10      5.99
Cash                                      4.69      4.33      4.89      5.96
Total                             240.21   277.63   318.88   379.11             Total                             240.22   277.63   318.88   379.11
Totals at 1985 constant prices 28/   228.77   250.12   261.38   283.98   Totals at 1985 constant prices 281   228.77   250.12   261.38   283.98
.. . .......................... ................................ ................................................ .
Notes 1/ to 27/: Explanatory notes on ABC's Balance Sheet are given on the following pages.
28/ Figures deflated by 5X for 1986, 11% for 1987, 22X for 1988 and 33.5X for 1989.                                                                            J   X



71
Explanatory notes to ABCs consolidated Balance Sheets for 198-88
(Annex 2, Table 5)
1/ DOSP-Os     Proportion of demand and tme deposits during 1986-88 and as of June 1989 was as follows.
Year         Total deosits              Individual deposits
Total Demand  Time         Total Demand  Time
1986        100    83 7    16.3        100    21.3   78.7
1987        100    77.7   223           100    23.5   76.5
1988        100    73.9   26.1         100    26 1*   739
1989(June)   100    66.4   33.6        100    20.3*   79.7
* Deposits for three years and above, which were Indexed in September 1988, amounted to Y16.48 bilion as of December 31, 1988
and Y30 87 billion as of June 30, 1989.
2/  Las. ABC's outstanding loans as of December 31, 1986, 1987 and 1988 were predominantly for working capital purposes
(short term) with less than one year maturity, However, the proportion of medium-and long-term loans Increased from 8.7% as of
December 31. 1986 (Y 17.46 billion) to 10.9% of the total (Y 2866 bllion) as of December 31, 1988 (Annex 2, Table 6).
3/ industrial enterprises dealing with ABC include mainly those set up by the local govemments at county levei and below.
Normally, larger industial enterprises established by the state (central govemrnment) and provincial and prefecture ievel govemnts
deal with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), a specialized bank for Industry and commerce. However a few such
Industrial enterprises maintain accounts with ABC instead of with ICBC, for locatonal advantages or because ofheir links with
agricultural bases and activtis financed by ABC.
4/      Commercial enterprises Include a range of clients Including state-owned commercia and trading companis, supply and
marketing cooperatives, tarm machinery supply companies, trade (material supply and marketing) companies tor TVEs and grain
bureaus. Deposits of these entities with ABC include besides usual demand and time deposis funds earmarked for specal purposes
such as business development, civa works, purchase of equipment and vehicles, etc.
ABC loans to commercial enterprises are mainly for working capital purposes (up to one yesar maturity): to grain
bureaus for grain procurement and for providing down payment to grain suppliers/producers against contract purchases; to supply
and marketing cooperatives (SMCs) and state-owned agricultural enterprises for marketing of agricuRural (nongrain) and sideline
roducts: to Industrial enterprises set up by SMCs for purchase of raw materials and inventory financing; to farm machinery comparies
for financing purchase and sale of equipments to farmers; to trading companies serving TVEs and foreign trade companies for
marketing activities, to indMdual or private enterprises (employing less than 8 persons) for production and marketing. Loans to
commercial enterprses also include medium-and long-term  loans (about 0.9% of the total In this category) for purchase of smail
equipment and machinery by commercial enterprises and fixed assets and devefopment loans (parny financed by special funds set
up by commercial enterpries from their annual profits).
5/      Township and village enterprises, which are collectively or privately owried, undertake diverse economic activiles Including
light industry, textile and chemical manufacturing, food processing, mining, machine building, and constructon mnateriel production and
transportaton. TVEs' unprecendented growth In recent years Is reflected In sharp increase In ABCs loans to thib subsector. About
29% of ABC loans to TVEs are medium-and long-term tor purchase of fixed assets and equipment and the rest for worldng capIta.
To date, ABC has financed some 500,000 TVEs. Currently, the TVE subsector Is undergolng a major restructuring. Much of the ABCs
problem loans are In this category (see Annex 9)
6/      Fixed assets loans Include those for technica transfer, capital construcSton and equipment, financing rural power generaton
(small thermal and hydrelectric power pants set up by local govemments), loans in areas notifed by the government as pority
areas for rural economic development and loans for fixed assets to enterprises In special economic zones.
7/ Mapo clients in the category of state-owned agricuitural enterprises include state farms Including foresty farrms commwrcia and
industrial entetprises set up by the state farm system, and household farms within the state farms and forestry frms. ABC Is the
major provider of resources to the state farm system for working capital and fixed Investments.
8/ Collective agricutural enterprses had their origin In the erstwhie commune system. These enterprses operate collectve agricultural,
forestry, animal husbandry, and fishery farms and provide support services. AtC loans to these enterprises are mainly for working
capital and purchase of farm machinery and fixed assets.
9/ Represen RCC deposit of surplus resources. ABC loans to RCCs are mainly for meeting their temporary resource needs though
some loans to RCCs In poorer areas (with low level of deposits) and for longer periods to supplement their loanable tunds.
10/ ABC has pursued an agressie deposit mobilization campaign increasing the household sector's share In total deposits from 21%
In 1986 to 35% In 1988. ABC loans In the household category are mainly to the speciarized households undertaking commercial
production In sideline acivies such as livestock and fisheries production and processing.
11/ Rural credit cooperatves are required to redeposit a minimum of 13% of their total deposits with ABC as liquidty reserve, the
redeposit requirements vary by province/area depending upon the Peoples Bank credit policy
12/ Staring from 1987. the Peoples Bank annuanly provides to ABC a long term loan of Y 1 billion to enable ABC to disburse low
Interest poverty alleviation loans Interest subsidy is provided by MOF from budgetary allocations
13/ Development loans are provided mainly for agricultural improvements including land development and reclamation. This type of
lending was recently started to support Increased grain production
14/ Special loans are disbursed from funds raised by issue of bonds, which carry interest rates of over 70% higher than the normal
prescribed rates, and are provided for Investments yielding high returms



72
15/ Other epoosp Include diverse Krnes Including: foreign trade enterprlse deposis, local and state budgetary allocations for specific
agricultural ae-"Topment Investments, deposits of registered private enterprlses, trust and endowment deposits, fixed term deposits from
enterprises (for special purposes), deposits agalnst constrcon projects, depreciation fund for machner.es on lease, amounts due
to Insurance companies (premium  colletlon), deposits of govemrnment and nongovemment organizaions, tax and other budgetary
receipts for the state (central) govemment, net credits arising from sale and redemption of central govemment bonds, and purchase
and sale of bonds on behaff of enterprises, and foreign exchange deposits.
161 Other loans Include: loans disbursed on behalf of the Peoples Bank (agency loans), loans disbursed In local currency using
foreign loansil5rFD, IFAD, ADB), net debit transactions between ABC and subsidlary Trust and hvestment Corporations, debits arising
from provincial and county level clearing system and ABC's intemal funds transfer, loans with Interest subsidies from line ministries,
counterpart funds for borelgn loan-assisted Investments, debits on account of purchase of foreign exchange, loans to joint venture
enterprises, and local currency equivalent of foreign exchange trasactions (not necessarily loans).
17/ ABC's borrowings from the People's Bank with maturity of lss than one year amounted to Y24.87 billon {including temporary
liquidity management loans and seasonal loans for three months) and long term borrowings (wh,;h were accumulated since 1979
and have no fixed repayment periods) amounted to Y74.71 blillon. Interest rates on PBC loans range from 9% p.a on temporary
borrowings (20 days), 9.72% on seasonal borfowings (three months), and 10.08% on longer term borrowings. PBC refunds Interest
at the rate of 2 1% to ABC on longer term loans, so the effective Interest rate on longer tern borrowings about 8% p.a. The share
of time deposits In the total deposits increased from 16.3% In 1986 to 33.6% In June 1988 and that In Individual (household)
deposits from 78.7% to 79.7%. Deposits from indIviduals for three years and above (which were indexed In September 1988)
amounted to Y 16.48 biMon In 1988 (9.6 % of the total deposits) and Increased to Y 30.9 biMon ( 18% of total deposits) In June
1989.
18/ Direct interbank borrowings amounted to Y4.78 biMon as at the end of December 1988, and the balance represented credit
balances In Interbank transactons/traster of funds.
19/ Credit fund represents the amount originally deposied by MOF with ABC as the working fund (equity) without Interest or dhndend
obligation. The balance of the annual profts (after remXitance to MOF of Income and other taxes) Is transferred In following year
to the Credit Fund.  For accounting purposes, ABC has allocated Credit Funds to offices at four levels Including headquarters,
provincial, prefecture and county level branches.
20/ Net profit represents the balance of profit retained by ABC with th approval of MOF, for transfer to the Credit fund. The net
profit excludes the amount transferred from the annual profis to development and welfare funds, see notes 10-12 to Annex 2, Table
6.
21/ Funds for fied assets represents contra entry for investments In fixed assets (net of depreciation).
22 Others Include liabilities In respect of bonds Issued by ABC, amounts due to subsidiary Trust and Investrnent Corporations,
amouiniheld against pay orders/drafts  sued to clients, net credit on clearlng transactons and transfer of funds among ABC
branches (as of December 31, 1988 debits amounted to Y147.02 blilon and credits Y149.55 billion) and provision for bad and
doubtful debts (Y304 milion). This Item also Includes funds provided by PBC for special purposes Including loans for poverty
alleiation, development of minority areas, rural development In aras noifed by the govemment, and for purchase of foreign
exchange for ABC recently started foreign exchange business.
23/ ABC Is requied to redeposit with PBC, 13% of is total deposits as liquidity reserve.
24/ Deposits with PBC represent ABC HQ's and branches curent accourt baiances used for day-to-day banking and clearing
transactons.
25/ Represent Interbank lending and trasactions between ABC and other banks.
26/ Book value of fixed assets after providing for depreciaton at the rate of 5% p.a. Fixed assets Include office buildings, staff
housing and dormitories, buildings for training schools, office equipment Including computers, vehicls, etc.



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statemntt of the Agriculturat Bank of China, 1986. 1987. 1988 and 1989
(Jawnary I - Deceuiber 31)
(V miltion)
............. .......................... ..................... .............................................._._._.__....................___.,.... ..,.... ....__._
Income                                1986       1987       1988       1989       Expenditure                                      1986       1987       1988       1989
........ .............. .... ...... ................................................................ .................................................................................................................... ..........
Interest income on loans I/  11,514    15,076   20,215   28,911                   Interest paid on deposits  4/                   4,035      5,342      6,902      9,009
Interest on Interbank                                                             Interest on Interbank
lending and agency fees 2/  10,743    18,058   29,471    46,860                     borrowings  5/                             12.811    20,518   33,254    56,678
Other  income  3/                      255        288        449        574       Agency fees and expenses  6/                       157        268        405        501
Acdministative expenses 7/                      1,099      1.416      1.972      2,889
Depreciation on fixed assets  8/                  169        186        235        285
Other expenditure  9/                           1,412      1,985      3,293      3,559
Subtotal                          19,683    29,715   46,061    72,921
Income before taxation  10/                    2,829      3,707      4,074      3,424
Total                   22,512    33,422   50,135   76,345                          Total                             22,512   33,422   50,135   76,345
---                       -----.     ........ .... ...                             ....                      ....... .....  .......  -----  .......  ... ... ...---.    .....
Income and other taxes
(Remittances to NOF)  1J/                  1,737     2,315       2,554      2,198
Retained Profit for transfer
to Credit Fund (equity) 12/                  1.092      1,392      1,520      1.226
Total                               2,829      3,707       4,0..    3,424        & 
......................... .....                                                                ........ .    ......................... .
Explanatory notes are given on the next page.cov



74
5s to ABCs Inoome and Ewendlshn                         for 1986-88
1/ intetest on loans Includes interest on all types o1 ABC loans, discounts and commision on bills, penalty interest on arrear
loans, service charges on trust, foreign exchange and leasing business.
2/ Interest and commission on interbank transactions. Includes Interest on deposits with PBC, loans to ROCs, Interest subsidIes
recerved from MOF and local govemments, Interest on lending to subsidiary Trust and Investment Corporations, commission on
pa orders and drafts. Iterest income on Interbank loans and overdrafts, Interest on Intra-ABC loans, overdrafts and clearing
Daiances
3' Other income. Includes service and agency fees for business transacted for PBC (including sale and purchase of silver and
gold) and Torofther banks and profit remitances by subsidiary Trust and Investment Corporations.
4/ Interest pald on de  sits  Includes interest payments on deposits from enterprises, IndMduals and Trust and Investment
Corporation  and tnerest and commission paid on foreign exchange business.
5/ Interest and Commission of Interbank trasactions. Includes interest payments on trasactions between ABC and RCCs, on
borrowings from PBC, payments on pay orders, money orders, Interest payments on transactions wIthIn ABC
6/ Agency expenses Expenditure IncurTed on agency business for PBC and other banks, Trust and Investment Companies, etc.
7/ Administrative Expenses. Business operations costs Include salary and overtime payments, various allowances provided to staff
and retired empboyee (such as tor heating homes and dorms, grain purchases, reglonal hardship), medical expenses for staff
and retired empoyees, cost of common dining faclites for staff, expenses of the workers unlons, and miscellaneous expenses
Including cash shortages, frauds, and damages to vehicles and other properties. Nonbusiness expenditure include payment of
pension to retired staff, workers compensation, salaries of staff on longer term sick leave, travel and tralning costs and a range
of other fees and charges.
8/ Depreciatlon. Depreciation on fixed assets Is charged at the unifomn rate of 5% p.a.
9/ Other expenditure. Includes business tax at the rate of 5% of the gross Income, educaton and urban construction taxes,
vehi  tax, stamp fees, cash shortages, and provisions for pension fund, weHfare and devebpment funds, and starting from 1988,
for bad and doubtful debts.
10/ 11/ and 12/ Profit DIstribution. Annual profits after payment of busness tax (5% of gross Income) are distributed as folows
- ABC transfers 21% of the total base  profit (i.e. the  target agreed with MOF under the contract system) to
welfare (essentially bonus) and business development funds which are Included In "other expenditure', Item 9 above. Addionally,
starting fom 1988, ABC Is authorized to retain 90% of the profit made In excess of the target profit for staff welfre and
business development.
- Of the balance 55% Is paid to MOF as Income tax and 7% as adjustment tax;
- The balance 38% is retained In ABC as net surplus for transfer to Credit Fund.
The profit allocation during 1986 to 1988 was as follows:
1986           1987             1988
(Y milion)
Business tax                                        575             753            1,010
Profit after business tax                          3,581          4,322            5,600*
Transfer to welare and
development funds in ABC                            752             615            1,526
Payment to MOF: 55% Income
tax and 7% adjustment tax                          1,737           2,315           2,554
Amount earmarked for
transfer to Credit Fund                            1,092           1,392           1,520
* Excludes provision for bad and doubtful debts at Y300 million



aaA
FBM"  RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
abturity-structuro of ABC'o Loon Portfolio l/
As of Doccnbor 81, 9M, 197 and 1986
(Acount. in Yuan billion)
_  _ _ I _ I _                              -               -l----                              1
I              1986               I              1987                1              1999
Category of loono         I    __---
Total  Short-toro Nd. and long I Total  Short-term Mod. and long I Total  Short-tore Mod, and long
toro                              tore                               tots
Ant.  Amt.   totol Amt. $ total Amt.  Amt. U total Ant.   totall Act.  Aot. $ total Act.    total
Loans to:                          l                                  l
Induwtrial entorprisooa               9.98   8.9s  90.0  1.00  10.0   1 18.85  11.95  89.5  1.40  10.5 1 15.44  18.74  99.0  1.70  11.0
Csmmorcial eaterpriecs             1124.20 128.88   99.8  0.87   0.7 1188.87 187.76  99.2  1.11   0.6 1156894 165.66   99.2  1.26   0.6
Fixed aets                            3 8.85  0.00   0.0  8.96  100.0   4.9  0.00   0.0  4.69  100.0   5.86  0.00   0.0  6.86 100.0
Townhip and village anterpriso     I 28.77 21.56   74.9  7.22  26.1 I 84.97  26.87   76.4  8.60  24.6 1  40.7  80.66   75.2  10.11  24.8
Stoto-owned agricultural enterprises I 8.95   7.82  67.4  1.18  12.6  11.11  9.60  85.5  1.61   14.6  18.41 11.89  84.9  2.02  15.1
Colloctive agricultural onteprises   1 68.2  6.70  87.4  0.82   12.8    7 7.21  6.16  85.6  1.05  14.6 1 8.29  7.08   84.9  1.25   15.1
Individuals                           6.41  5.89   91.8  0.68    8.2 I 7.98   7.22   91.0  0.71   9.0     8.66   7.88   90.8  0.90   9.2
Rural credit cooperativos          l 4.21   4.21  100.0  0.00   0.0   3 8.86   8.8s 100.0  0.00   0.0    8.7   8.87  100.0  0.00   0.0
Poverty alleviation loons          1 0.02   0.00   0.0  0.02  100.0 I 1.86  0.00   0.0  1.86  100.0   2.66   0.00   0.0  2.66  100.0
Devolopment loans                  l 1.67  0.00   0.0  1.67 100.0   2.05  0.00   0.0  2.06  100.0   2.60  0.00   0.0  2.60 100.0
Special loans                         1.16   1.04   90.0  0.12   10.0    1 1.81   1.4S   90.0  0.16   10.0 l 2.26   2.08   90.0  0.28   10.0
Othera                             I 4.18  8.79  91.8  0.84   8.2 I 5.52   6.02   91.0  0.60   9.0 1 8.00  2.72   90.5  0.29   9.5
*       ~~I                                 I                                 I
Total                       1199.7  192.81  91.8  17.48   8.7 1282.82 209.08  90.0 28.24   10.0 1268.16 284.60  99.1  29.66   10.9
Totals at 196e constnt prices 2/  190.26 178.68        16.68        1209.80 188.86        20.94       1216.70 192.21        28.49
I                                 I
- -- ------------------------- ------------------ ------------ - ----- --------- -- ----- ----------------- - ------- - --------------- - - -------
1/ Bosed on ABC and mission oetioates. In the absence of firm data, the mlosion has 00oused that 1005 of poverty alleviation and duvelopent
loan* are on aodium and long-term boois.
2/ Figures have beon deflated by 58 for 1986, 11% for 1967 and 228 for 1968 .



ARc Le4n Colttesti  Portenea during lOas S17 an  ISM
(lAinte In auan bil  ion)
- 1---                                                                         - _ __I-
1966                    3            16                                  18
Catcegry of looen                           -
lOpening Disburse- Collns. Percont  0/o    IDiobroo- Colln. Percont  0/o    IDabur- Ceolnl. Porcet   0/a
I  ol..  -oants  d4urno   collno./  Sol.   -wotn   during   cellno./  Bel.   -canto   during  cel i../  Bal.
I 1/8S  CY 1S6  CY19#  diburt,..  12/66  ICY 1667 CYI18?  diaberoo. 12/86  ICY 1666  CY1969   disbore.  12/09
Loons to:                            I                                             I
Induatriat onterprieo@o                  8.14    18.30     0.46    71.1    9.96 I   5.28    1.99    86.0   18.85 I  29.69    27.60           68.0   16.44
Cecsrelat enterpris;e                   116.22  251.21   242.28    98.4  124.20   819.B9  806.21         95.4  188.97   893.66   875.58    e5.4  166.04
Fixed rasset                              2.22     1.9s     0.80     16.7    8.08  1   2.7      1.9S     69.?    4.09 I   2.65       1.49     68.2    6.85
Te_nh;p and villeog onterpriwo       1  18.82    81.64    21.99    68.9   28.77     46.98    40.76       66.9   84.97 1  59.76   68.96        90.8   40.76
Statoe-owrd agricultural enterprises      6.97    12.74     9.77     76.6    8.96 l  17.93    16.77      68.0   11.11    24.62    22.61       90.7   18.41
Collectivo agriculturol enteprieo.    I   6.64     1.99     2.01    106.6    6.62 l   8.44      2.76     60.1    7.21       6.14     4.08     79.1    9.28            -a
Individuals                          I   6.88      4.66     8.69     76.9    0.41 I   6.7       6.25     77.6    7.93 I   7.66       7.10     90.6    B.08
Rural credtt coeperatives                 8.80    6.99    6.08    67.0    4.21         6.10    0.86    10.2    8.66 I   6.67        6.96    104.9    8.87
Poverty alleviation loono                 0.00     0.02     0.00      0.0    0.02 I   1.44      0.11      7.4    1.85 l   1.68       0.28     16.0    2.18
Dovolopent loans                          0.96     0.09     0.27     80.7    1.67 I   0.96      0.47     49.2    2.06 1   1.02    0.66        68.8    2.60
Special loone                        1   0.40      1.03     0.88     82.8    1.18 |   1.29    0.64       66.8    1.61 |   1.90       1.16s    64.4    2.25
Othore                               I   8.89      2.66     1.81     71.1    4.18 1   6.82      8.92    78.7    6.8 I   6.41         6.76    136.7    S. P
I                                            I                                    I
Total                        3 168.46   829.06   297.74      90.6  199.77    418.12  S85.67      92.2  282.81 1 659.97   508.98       94.8  36.81
---- ---- --    --- --- ---- --      -  - ---I  -        -- - - -      - -- - -
I/ Sesed On ABC antd mission eatimates. Minor edjucteenta have been mad. In the data on loon collections providod by AKC to reconci le tbo eutetoading lean
numbers given in the consolidated balance sheets. Subteen col lection data takoe Into aceount rescheduling of oubloana shomeevr necacoary.
2/ ABC reported that it dace not cotlect data on loan cot lactions aeparatety for abort-tere and modium-and long-tore leone and aith reforenco to due dateo
of individual loans. This exercioe has been recently introduced and perhaps the firot caet of such information Is expected to bo available as of Decombor
81, 1969. Meanwhile, ABC has completed a comprehensive revie, of its loan portfolio as of Doccabr 81, 1966 the conclusiona of gbicb h 
are revieved tn Annex 2
8/ Ae WS6 of ABC loane have loss than one year maturity, the dote on subteen collectiont are substantially sith reference to due daote  of reopymont.        '- 
'Ox
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0K



CNIIIA
FOIETN AURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Corsotidated galancowee g t of the Agricultural Sank of China
for the Ten Project Provinces and Beijing znmicfpality
(as of Dece;Aer 31, 1986, 1967 and 1988)
(T millfon)
.................... .......................................... ........................................................................................... ................................................................ .............
irnr Mongolia           Shaanxi                  Jilin                   Lisoning
1986    1987   1988    1986    1987    1988    1986    1987    1988    1986    1987    1988
....................................................................................................................................................
Sources of Funds
Deposits of industriat enterprises                       11      14      27      26      36      41       11      20      21      35      31       39
Deposits of camercial enterprises                      221      271     285     411     428     381      443     458     473     461     384      446
Deposits of township and village enterprises            57       66      94      75      82      90      128     147     176     127     120      140
Deposits of state-owned agreultural enterprises        147      163     172     213     225     217      205     214     248     165     185      196
Deposits of agricultural collectives                    10       10      19       7       9       13       2       6      13      27      26      36
Deposits of rural credit cooperatives                  611      760     819     744     865     705      689     692     741     976   1,183   1,154
Deposits of individuals                                292      524     824     783   1,163   1,504      412     865   1,497     458   1.086   1,900
RCC reserves for deposits                              247      283     310     417     538     566      471     551     599     635     668     788
Other deposits                                         166      194     199     238     308     302      303     199     251     260     266      300
Subtotal (deposits)                               1,762   2,285   2,748   2,912   3.654   3,819   2,664   3,153   4,018   3,145   3,949   4,998
Borrowings fron PFC                                  1,493   1,483   1,765   1,448   1,646   2,143   4,225   5,211   6,215   2,647   2,816   3,641
Interbank borrowings                                             18     30        6      33     281      21      39      316      30     165     319
Credit funds                                           669      667     665     623     638     635      751     761     793     783     806     836
Retained profits                                        19       35      41      60      96      101     106     152     15      86     130     144
Fund for fixed assets                                  126      141     165      96     105     123      126     156    .'In      91     110     129
Other sources                                        7,411   9,416  19,401      626     940   4,313      793     483     889     628     575       14
Total                                            11,480  14,045  24,816   5.772   7,112  11,416   8.687   9,956  12,581   7,409   8,552  10,081
..... -----.    -----   -----.. -----    -----. . ----   ......  -----   . ----   -----.. ...-----.   .  .
Apptication of Funds
Loans to industrial enterprises                         82       80      66     152     233     275      119     156     211     299     365     429
Loans to commercial enterprises                      2,332   2,590   3,139   2,626   3,142   3,666   4,905   6,121   7,497   3,674   4,328   5,053
Loans for fixed assets                                                   53      65      97      125     220    331      403     283     385     478
Loans to township and village enterprises              155      370     449     718     883   1,000      546     566     819     687     877     986
Loans to state-owned agricultural enterprises          155      240     261      55      64      86     459      605     784     280     377    475
Loans to agricultural collectives                      350      316     308     169     150     136      191     169     276     315     317    355
Loans to households                                    312     375      426     227     305     33S     926      954     943     185     180     182
Loans to rural credit cooperatives                      15       24      20     246     215     178      90       25      72      82      80      61
Poverty alleviation loans                                        15      37              96     216               12      21              22      45
Development loans                                       22       22      21      82     108     113       24      35      so     119     171     209
Special loans                                           18       23      30              68      92       20      30      47              18      29
Other ltoa                                             109      104     159     100      53      52       65      54       7       5       7       2
Subtotal (loans)                                3,550   4,159   4,968   4,440   5,414   6,275   7,566   9,058  11,131   5,930   7,126   8,304
...-   ...  ...  ..... .  .......-----  .. .. .  . .. ..  .....         -----.. .....    ----- .... ..... ....  .   .
Reserves for deposits                                  150      214     274     305     454     536      259     386     518     232     367     539   
Deposits in PBC                                        399      406     303     369     359     297      578     187     287     798     607     476           :
Interbank loans                                         15      32      95       56     108     121       0      25     336      195     216     504     0 o 
Fixed assets                                           126      141     165      96     105     123      126     156     190      91     110     129        0 z
Cash                                                   131      120     65       65      59      66      156     145     118     163     126     129         0 to 
Others                                               7,109   8,973  18,945      441     614   3,998
Total                                          11.480  14,045  24,816   5,772   7,112  11,416   8,687   9,956  12,581   7,409   8,552  10,081
Total at 1985 constant prices I/                    10,892  12,608  20,308   5.476   6,384   9,342   8,242   8,937  10,295   7,030   7,677   8.249
................................................................................................................ ...............................  .



CHINA
FOURTH RURlAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Bank of China
for the Ten Project Provinces and Beijing Nunicipality
(as of Decensber 31, 1986, 1987 and 1988)                             Contimued
(Y million)
............... ............................... ..................................................... ..................................................................................... ........................................
Jiangxi                          uandong                        Beijing
1986    1987   1988             1986    1987    1988             1986    1987    1988
............................................................................................................................................
Sources of Funds
Deposfts of industrial enterprises                     108     153     125           1,250   1,460   1,950                       56      75
Deposits of commercial enterprises                     489     572     662                                              809     622    837
Deposits of township and village enterprises            85     107     112             720    940   1,170               157     243     273
Deposits of state-owned agrcultural enterprises        241     278     260             640     470     450              505     599     615
Deposits of agricultural collectives                    16      18      18             100     120      160              12      18      20
Deposits of rural credit cooperatives                  585     686     711           1,240   1,180   1,770            1,025   1,061   1,155
Deposits of individuals                                761   1,132   1,485           2,080   3,110   4,510              197     345     564
RCC reserves for deposits                              372     484     466           2,000   3,090   3,490              582     724     797
other deposits                                         223     256     321           2,380   4,280   4,170              268     287     426
Subtotal (deposits)                              2,881   3,687  4,160            10,410  14,650  17,670           3,554   3,956   4,761
Borrowings from P8C                                  1,931   2,276   3,002           5,850   6,820   7,150                       90     115
Interbank borrowings                                     0      27     117              10    950   1,330              307        5     157
Credit funds                                           696     706     720           1,000   1,260   1,300              147     162     182
Retained profits                                        33      33      42             290     480     490               96     124     135
Fund for fixed assets                                  135     159     178             250     310     420
Other sources                                          595     485     321           2,040   1,660  10,550              177    320   3,627                  o
Total                                            6,271   7,374   8,540           19,850  26,130  38,910           4,280   4,657   8,977
Application of Funds
Loans to industrial enterprises                        258     320     355                                               90     129     146
Loans to commercial enterprises                     2,993   3,630   4,023            8,050   8,780  10,360            1,196   1,398   1,821
Loans for fixed assets                                 139     175     201                     480     700              134     179    247
Loans to township and village enterprises             739      890   1,068           3,990   4,550   4,520             529      624     777
Loans to state-owned agricultural enterprises         541      707    865            1,010     700     860             268      339     505
Loans to agricultural collectives                      143     155     155             480     740     920               47     102     179
Loans to households                                    111     133     137             220     260     430                1       1       1
Loans to rural credit cooperatives                      88      77      78             370     270     210               4        3       2
Poverty alleviation loans                               42     159     254              10      30      60
Devetopment loans                                       67      94     143              60     110    140                36      40
Special loans                                          32       38      59              80      90     130               76     142     223
Other loans                                             84      88      91           1,630   4,920   4,650               54      20    271
Subtotal (loans)                               5,236   6,466   7,428           15,900  20,930  22,980           2,434   2,977   4,171
Reserves for deposits                                  267     385     457           1,120   1,690   2,260              400     428     609
Deposits in PBC                                       342      195     220           1,210     960     980             916      297   1,022          fb I D
Interbank loans                                       123       28     112              20   1,290   1,480             489      123    167
Fixed assets                                           135     159     178             250     310     420                                             %  s
Cash                                                   167     140     146             360     410    S50                42      30      31
others                                                                                 990     540  10,280                0     801   2,977
Total                                          6,271   7,374   8,540           19,850  26,130  38,910           4,280   4,657   8,977
Total at 1985 constant prices I/                    5,950   6,619   6,989           18,834  23,456  31,84             6,061   4,180   7,36
....................................................... ........................................................................................................ 



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Bank of China
for the Ten Project Provinces and BeiJing Punicipality
(as of December 31, 1986, 1987 and 1988)                             Continued
(Y mlflion)
............................................................................................. . . ....................................................
Hubei                  Hunan                 Fujian                  Guangxi
1986    1987   1988    1986   1987   1988    1986    1987   1988   1986   1987   1988
Sources of Funmds
Agriculturat appropriation                           129    142    128    109         96      98      55      70      53    102    129       95
Deposit from agricuttrual enterprises & collective   373    432    383    554    612    508   1,896   2,204   1,843    678    862    745
Deposit from industrial & commercial enterprises     660    834    813    775    897    655    637    777    840    546    631              690
savings deposit                                    1,135   1,780   2,403     957   1,546   1,846   1,127   1,572   1,753    783   1,212   1,622
Others                                               141    140    110    391        509    638    943   1,302   8,088    t50       162    192
Agricultural credit funds                          1,188   1,204   1,239   1,050   1,076   1,099    528    S44    580    798    817    836
Borrowings from PBC                                   is      29      48      30      43      73      19      37      68     23      81      83
Funds for special purposes                             9      19      23      16      20      22      11      23     29      13      11      18
Fund for fixed assets                                165    205    236       136    156    194    106    115    137    109    140           170
Suspense receipt                                      63      60      73      20      35      33      59    101      28       5      21      35
Interest payable                                      37      17       9      39      21      10     28      15      11      32       4      10
Interbank borrowings                               6,444   7,215   8,036   3,968   4,943   5,860    326     228    161   1.115   1,402   2,038
Retained profits                                     119    177    191       112    188    198        81    137    140       69    135      130
Total                                          10,483  12,253  13,692   8,157  10,142  11,233   5,814   7,125  13,731  4,422   5,587   6,665
............  . ......   -----.  .......   ---   ..... .......  .....  .......  ... ...  .. .......   . .... ......_
Application of Funds
Agricultural loans                                 3,074   3,830   4,348   2,568   3,354   3,728   1,896  2,363   2,513   1,627  2.178   2,652
Loans to industrial & conmercial enterprises       6,795   7,692   8,330   4,792   5,697   5,913   2,182   2,470   2,776   2,347  2,779   3,045
Loans to the Rural Credit Project                    121    205    207        69     208    356       79    216    262    158    283    376
Fixed assets                                         165    205      236    136    156    194    106    115    137    109    140            170     Ii
Suspense payment                                     140    130    202        34      58      71      20      29     35       7       4      29      b
Cash                                                 187    191    210    181    211    245    121           114    137    175    176    204   9  4
others                                                               159    378    458    728   1,410   1,818   7,871                27     189   ,ItDm X
,otal                                        10,483  12,253  13,692  8,157  10,142  11,233   5,814   7,125  13,731   4,422   5,587  6,665       10  4
Total at 1985 constant prices 1/                   9,946  10,999  11,205   7,740   9,104   9,193   5,516   6,396  11,236  4,196   5,015   5,454
.......................  .................................................... ...  .........................,,.,,,,  ,  ...................,,,,,,  ,,,,,_
I/ Figures deflated byr 5X for 1986, 11X for t987, 22X. for i988.



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consotidated Incoam Statement of the Agricultural Bank of China, for the Ten Project Provinces and Beijing Hunicipaltty
(for the Year Ended December 31, 1986, 1987 and 1988)
tY million)
......................................................................... .......................................................................................................
Inmer Mongolia               Sheanxi                       Jilin                        Liaoning
1986     1987      1988      1986      1987      1988      1986      1987      1988     1986      1987      1988
Income
Interest on loans                   151       203       298      222       286       391       335       480       670       274      404       565
Interst on Interbank
lending and agency fees          441       507       470       270       412       696       483      862    1,383         61       156       229
Other incomes                        25        43        42         5         4         8        3         4         5         0         4        6
Total                           617       753       811       497       701    1,095        820    1,346    2,058        335       563       800
.......                       .....     -----    . ......   -- -   .  .  -   .  - --      -- -       - -       - -     ......    ---       -----
Expenditure
Interest paid on deposits            17        28       40        43        70        87        21        47        76        26       59        93
Interst on Inter bank
borrowings                        525       578      576       339       461       801       623    1,039    1,661         157      273       414
Agency fees and expenses                                                                                                                 0         1
Administrative expenses              43        55        73        32        48       66        43        74        99        43        66       91
Depreciation on fixed assets          6         7         8         5         5         5        6         7         8         5         5         6
Other expenditure                     7        51        74         6         6        14        4         5        20        19        30       52
Subtotal                         599       718      769       425       590       974       697    1,172    1,864        249       433       656
.........    -----           .....  ..........    .....    ---        --       .....    ---       .. ...    .....
Income before taxation               19        35        41       72       111       122       123       174       194        86      130       144
Total                            617       753      811       497       701    1,095        820    1,346    2,058        335       563       800
...-                          ..  .....  ....  ..  ..... . . .....    .....  . . .....    -----.   . .....   .....   . . .....   -----.   . -----............ . .......  .. .... ..
Income and other taxes                                             12        15       21        18        26        37        57       91        93
Retained profit for transfer                                                                                                                              OQ cr P
to Credit Fund (equity)            19        35       41        60        96       101       105       148       157       30        40        51
Total                             19        35       41        72       111       122       123       174       194       86       130       144
................................... ........ ........ ..................... ........ .... ...... ..



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of China, for the Ten Project Provinces and Beijing Wunicipatity
(for the Year Ended December 31, 1986 1987 and 1988)
(Y mitUlon)
Contlnued
................................ ....................................................................... .... ...... .......... .................. .............................. .... ................... ..... ... ..... ... 
Jiangxl                                          Guangdong                                          Beijing
.......... ............                .         ..  ........... _.................                .................... ...........  ...
1986        1987         1988                    1986         1987        1988                     1986        1987        1988
................. ................................... ... .... ........ ................ .. .. ....... ........... ........... ................................. ..............
Incose
Interest on  toans                                       247          321         486                      910       1,230       1,790                       140         181         268
Interat on Interbank
tending and agency fees                                350         546          774                     490          900         540                      135         217         256
other 1ncomes                                               3            3           4                       so          60       1.240                         3           4           5
Total                                                600          869       1.263                    1,450       2,190       3.570                       278         402         S28
.....                                              .....       ....... .....                        ....... .....            .....          .         . .....     ....... ..... ..........
Expenditure                                                                                                                                                                                                          "A
...........
Interest pafd on deposits                                  51          76           94                     120         520          390                       45          48           71
Interst on Inter bank
borrowIngs                                             411         605          921                      840         930       1,820                      114         202          277
Agency fees and expenses
Administrative expenses                                    43          54           81                       S0         100         160                       14           16          21
Depreciatfon an fixed assets                                 7           7           9                       10          10           10                        2           2           3
Other oxpendlture                                          14          31           51                       90          90         600                         8          11          22
Subtotal                                             525          773       1,155                    1.110       1,650       2,980                       182         278         393
..................  -----   .......              .....        .....       .....                    .....       .....        .....
Ineme bafoe taxatfon                                       74          96          108                     340         S40          590                       96         124          135
Iotat                                                600          869       1,263                    1.450       2,190       3.570                       278         402         528
.....                       ,.....                                .        . -----                   .....          .        . .....                  ....... .....            .................... ....... ......_.
Intem  ondottar texes                                      41          63           65                      S0           60         100                                                           to
Retaired pofit for trens fer                                                                                                                                                                     q   cr
to Cr.dt Fund (eqity)                                   33           33          42                      290         480         490                       96          124         135         w w 
lotol                                                  74          96          t08                     340          540         590                       96         124          135         i   f
.....                                              .....       ....... .....                        ....... .....            .....           .        . .....     ....... ..... ............... .. .... ..
..........................................................................................................................................



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement of the Agriculturat Bank of China, for the Ten Project Provinces and Beijing municipality
Continued
..................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................
Hubei 1/                           Hunan 1/                         Fujian 1/                           Guangxi 1/
..............               ...............                     ................. ..                ..................
1986        1987        1988        1986       1987        1988        1986        1987        1988        1986        198?        1988
Inccse
Operating income                           488         611         841         368         540         m           218         305         432         203         287        473
Non-operating income                        700        932       1,555         475         589         883         538            9         97         165         367        641
Total                                1,188       1,543       2,395         844       1,129       1,660         756         315         529         369         655      1,114
Expenditure
...........
Operating expenses                          125         182        251          101         154        210         105         141         141          84          85         149
Non-operating expenses                     899       1,166       1,929         618         m         1,232         550          30         189         192         376         741
Administrative expenses                      44          18          24          13          13          19         20            6         58          23          59          94       )
Subtotal                             1,068       1,367       2,204         731         940       1,462         675         177         389         299         520        984
........   .....       .....       .....       ... ....    ... ....    .. .......  .....       .....       .....       -----       ..... ...o 
Not Profit                                    119         177         191         112         188         198          81         137         140          69        135         130
..  .............................................. ...................................... . ...................................................
1/ Owed on the auclited firnaciat statements rec,eived under RC I, RC II wnd RC Ill.



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Bolance Sheet of Rural Credit Cooperatives
(as of December 31. 1986, 1987, 1988 and 1989)
(Y billion)
..... ....... ...................... ................................................ .......... ..................... ...........................................................................................................
Liabilities                                          1986         1987       1988           1989a/        Assets                                               1986         1987        1988           1989a
..................................................................................................................... .............. ...............................................................................................
Deposits                                                                                                   Loans
Rural collective  enterprises                    8.40          8.90         9.04         7.76              Rural collective enterprises                     4.50         7.20         8.01         9.22
Township & villige enterprises    9.20    10.50    12.83    10.84                                          Township & villige enterprises   26.60    35.90    45.61    51.22
IndividuaL  deposits                            76.60       100.60       115.03       124.72               Individuals                                     25.80        34.00        37.24        47.76
Other deposits                                    2.00         2.50         3.08         2.98                 SubtotaL                                     56.90        77.10        90.86    108.20
Subtotal                                     96.20   122.50   139.98  1U6.30
........                                     .....        .....         .....        ...--. - - * ----  -----Deposits with  ABC                         49.30        59.20        57.97        49.10
Borrowing from ABC                                  4.20         3.80          3.60         4.79
Other  Liabilities                                  5.80        10.00          5.25         6.21
Total                                       106.20       136.30       148.83       157.30                  Total                                       106.20       136.30    148.83    157.30    
.....                                        ......... .....            ... .... .........                 .....                                                     ...... ..    .....        ...... .. . .. . .. . 
................... ........................................ .. ... . ... .. ...... ........ .... .... ........ ............. .... ...... ........ ......................
a/ Balances as of June 30 1989.
Source: Peop(els Bank of China



84
Annex 3
Table 1
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
...................... .......................... _..
BASIC DATA ON PROJECT PROVINCES
~~~~~~~~~~. . _____________.____._.....  _ __.........
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................... ............................................... ....... ............. ....... .. ..... ....___._ __.
inner Mongolia             iflin                 Liaonirig
1980   1988   % change  1980  1988 X charge  1980   198   X change
Population (million)
Total population                        19    21      1%       22   24      1%        35     38     1%
Rural population                        15    14   -1%         16   14    -1%         24     22    -1%
Rural labor force                        5      5     2%        3     6     7%         7      8     2%
Agricultural labor force                 4      5     1%        3     S    6X          6      6    -1%
Rural households (million)             2.8   3.1      1%      3.0  3.3      1%       5.0    5.8    2%
TVEs ('O0O)                             16   264   42%         17   24      5%        33    600   44%
Land area ('000 ha)                          118300                 18740                   14590
Total arabte land                     5180  4871    -1%    4044 3951        0%      3778   3479    -1%
Sown area                             4462  4559    0%       4057 4035      0%      3847   3603    -1%
Irrigated area                        1038   1038    0%      731   774    1%         718   1259    7%
GVAO (Y million) a/                     4382  6979    6%       6166  7535    3%       9886  12159    3%
of uhich, Crop production a/          4169  3283    -3%    5724  5349    -1%        8434  6285    -4%
GIVO (Y million) a/                     5969  15117   12%    13740 34169    12%      45136 104426    11%
of which, Rural industry a/             213   722    16%       432 3309    29%       1168  14034   36%
Crop production
Grain area ('000 ha)                  3882   3636    -1%    3514 3422    0%         3221   3130    0%
Grain output ('000 tons)              3965   7383    8%      9220 16933    8%      11605  13072    1%
Oilseed area ('000 ha)                 520    546    1%       186  249      4%       303    151    -8X
oilseed Output ('000 tons)             363    540    5%       345   354     0%       306    168   -7%
Livestock Production c/
Pigs ('000 head)                      4683  4664      0%    5430 4463    -2%       10463  10654    0%
Pork production ('000 tons)            116   252    10%       236  317    4%         423    655    6%
Sheep/goats ('000 head)              26700  28928     1X    1679  1931      2X      2104   2743     3X
Hutton production ('000 tons)           77    85    1%          2    4      9%         2      8    18%
Cattle ('000 head)                    6789  3985    -6X    2318  1617   -4%         2656   1428    -7%
Beef production ('000 tons)             46     73    6%         8    28    17%         5     26    24%
Fisheries (Freshwater culture)
Pond area ('000 ha)                      2   18 b/  29%       n.a.   3    n.a.      n.s.   6 b/   n.s.
A-.4-tion ('000 tons)                 11    25    10%         8    58   27%          8     57    27%
per capita (Yuan)
uian income per capita                 826   1002    2%       580   997    7%        494   1268   13X
Rural income per capita                181    499    14%      236   628    13%       273    699    12%
Poverty income level                   100   200    9%        110  300   13%         150   300    9X
Percent belou poverty level           n.a.     19%   n.a.      12%   8%  -5%        n.a.    9X b/ n.a.
main Consuiption (kg/capita)
Grain                                  253   276      1%      265   309     2X       259   248    -1X
Oil-bearing crops                      2.6   4.9      8%      2.6   7.4    14%       3.2    5.8    8X
Neat                                  10.6  14.1    4%        8.0  11.1    4%        8.7   11.7    4%
Chicken                                0.2   0.3   11%        0.5   0.8    7%        0.3    0.5    8%
Eggs                                   1.3    4 b/  17%       1.3  6.5   22%         2.0   4 b/   10%
Fish                                   0.1    2.4   45%       0.7  5.7   29%         1.7   3.6   10%
Fruit                                 n.s.  n.s.   n.e.       2.5   5.0    9%       13.1  21.0    6X
.....--.---..------.----.-.-_----    .   ..-..  ,-_-_-_-..-..--.-_----.-..  .-.  .   ...............................
a/ 1980 constant price
b/ 1987 figure
c/ Year-end livestock mumber
Source: Provincial ABCs and China Statistical Yearbook



85
Annex 3
Table 2
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
....;.......................
BASIC DATA ON PROJECT PROVINCES
................................
Shaanxi               Jfangzf               Guangdong              Beijing
. .. ............... ... .......................  ................ ........ ... .... ,... .... __................. .. 
1980  1988 X change  1960  1988  X change  1980  1988 X chawge  1960  1988 X change
. ...... .. ... .. .... .... .... ...... ............................ .............................................................._............ ............._.............. ..
Population (million)
Total population                  25    31     31        33    36    1X        59    58     01        9    10    1X
Rural population                  22    26      21       28    30    1X        51    44    -2X        4     4    -1X
Rural labor force                  9    11     31        11   13      3X       20    23     2X        2     2      1X
Agrieultural labor force           8    11    3X         10    11     2X       19   21      1X         1     1    -71
Rural households (million)       5.0   6.1     31       5.5   6.1    1X       9.7   9.2    -1X      1.0   1.2    31
TVEs ( 000)                       42   570    39X        44    17 -11X         86    28   -131        5     6      11
Land area ('000 ha)                    20600                  16690                 17810                  1681
Total arabte land               3845  3563    -1X      2394  2359     OX    3224  2964    -1X       426  416      01
Sown area                       4841  4M       OX      5554  5396     OX     6395  5377   -21       644   596   -1X
irrigated area                  1249   997   -3X      1670  1817    1X       2075  1719   -31       341   338     01
GVAO (Y million) a/               5379 6979      31    6815  9314       41    13249 25335     8X     2337  2807     21
of ihich, Crop production a/    3315  4302     31    4682  4428    -11    12027 12137       01     1833  1612   -21
GIVO (Y million) a/              10529 25845    12%      9401 34533    181   25036 77826    151    21661 47110    101
of which, Rural industry a/       376 3288    311       1434  3190    11%     1222 17887   40X       504  5415    351
Crop production
Grain area ('000 ha)            4310  4073    -11    3755  3589    -1X       5320  3847   -41       549   488   -1X
Grain output ('000 tons)        7500 9673      31    12401 15159    3X    16660 16568       01     1805  2346    3X
Oilseed area t 000 ha)           160   284     71       361   441     31      445   378    -21       28    15   -8X
Oitseed Output ('000 tons)       168  343      91       138  328    11X       610   543    -1X       22    30     41
Livestock Production c/
Pigs (t000 head)                6665  7582     21    10180 14545    5X    19708 19369       OX     2290  1452   -61
Pork production ('000 tons)      223   315     41       362   889    12X      668  1246     8X      129   135    1X
Sheep/goats (000 head)         6124  5612    -1X       98   129    3X        328   121   -121k    138  791    24X
Nutton production ('000 tons)      6    16    121         0     1    11X        1     1    -21        1    4    16X
Cattle ('000 head)              2441  2314    -11      2086  2955     41     4267  4515     11      287    30  -251
Beef production (OOO toas)         2    22    311         3    15    211        8    25    151        0     5    431
Fisheries (Freshuater culture)
Pond area ('000 ha)             n.a. 0.88/b  n.a.       63    78      31     n.a.   153   n.a.       16   22      41
Production (000 tons)              3    15    251        75  246    161       220  650    151         4    39   331
Income per capita (Yuan)
Urban incoa per capita           381   962    121       365   865    11X      577  1337    11X      501  1437   141
Rural incm  per capita           143   404    141       181   488    131      274   809    141      308  1063    171
Poverty income level             190   200      11      150   200     41      117  300    121      n.a.   n.a. n.a.
Percent below poverty level       241   16   -5X          51    21  -101     n.a.  n.a.   n.a.     n.a.   n.a. n.a.
Main Consumption (kg/capita)
Grain                            206   241     21       310   336     1X      292   256    -21      167  221      41
oil-bearing crops                1.8   3.8    101       3.1   5.7    81       2.4   4.7    91       4.0   6.7    7X
peat                             4.9   5.6      21      6.5  12.4    81       6.5  14.4   101       7.6  10.2    41
Chicken                          0.1   0.2    31        1.1   1.3    21       2.2   4.0    81       0.9   0.7   -31
EggS                             0.4   1.3   151        1.0   2.0    9%       0.8   1.3    7X       6.5  14.3   101
Fish                             0.0   1.3   601        1.6   2.0    3X       1.6   4.2   131       5.5   5.9    1X
Fruit                            6.9   8.8    3X       4.2   4.6    1X       n.s. n.a.   n.e.      25.4  51.5    9X
,. .........................................................................................____..............................................
a/ 1980 contant price
b/ 1987 figure
c/ Year-end livestock mnSer
Source: Provincial ABCs and China Statistical Yearbook



86
Annex 3
Table 3
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BASIC DATA ON PROJECT PROVINCES
................................ ......................................... ......... .................. ..........................................
Nubel                 Hunan                 Fujian                 Guangxi
..................................  .......... ................ ..... .........  .  ............  .................................................... 
1980 1988 X change 1980 1988 X change 1980 1988 X change 1980 1988 X change
Population (million)
Total population                  47    51    1t        53    59    1X         25    28     22       35    41      2X
Rural population                  39    40     OX        46    35    -3X       20    24     22       31    36      22
Rural labor force                 1S   18       22       24    30     32        7    10     32       13    17    32
Agricultural labor force          14   14    02          18   21      12        7     8     1X       13   15    2X
Rural households (miltion)       8.0   9.5     22      10.7  13.4     32      4.2   5.2     32      6.0   7.1      22
TVEs ('000)                      112  1093    332       126   110    -22       43   447    342       31   702    472
Land area ('000 ha)                    18590                  21180                 12380                 23670
Total arable land               3739 3498    -12    3425  3326        OX     1291  1239    -12     2637  2569     02
Sawn area                       7477 7229      02     7909  7483    -12      2574  2589     02     4878 4735      02
Irrigated area                  2345  2173    -12     2743  2670      02      933   924     02     1433  1338    -12
GVAO (Y million) a/              10024 16768     72    11945 17319      52     4797 8514      7X     6586  8846     4X
of ihich, Crop production a/    7370 10997     52     8001 10309    32       2696  4118     52     4591  5016      12
GIVO (Y million) a/              22802 57259    122    17857 44163    122      8243 31296    182    14728 28891     92
of whIch, Rural industry a/      1637 12262    292     2099 10042    222      1119  8531    29X      749  2345    15X
Crop production
Grain area (000t ha)            S352  5088    -12      5451  5196    -12     2176  1562    -42     3957  3511    -12
Grain output (d000 tons)       15365 22527     52    21245 25362      2X     8019  8374     1X    11905 10557    -12
Oilseed area ('000 ha)           331   629     82      313   535      7X      130   113    -2X      167   174      12
Oilseed Output ('000 tons)       206  658    162        193  542    142       135   149     12      137   173     32
Livestock Production c/
Pigs ('000 head)               15893 19657    3X    20322 26944       42     6870  8903     32    10341 15272     52
Pork production ('000 tons)      541  1217    112      914  1769      9X      237   552    112      397   713    82
Sheep/goats ('000 head)         1690  1849      1X     849  638    -42        718   586    -3X      803   688    -2X
Nutton production (t000 tons)      8    10    3X          5    4    -22         3     5     7X        2     2    3X
Cattle ('000 head)              3089  3437      12    3228  3838      2X      991  1247     3X     4110  6480    62
Beef production (C000 tons)        5     9     82         5    14    122        3     6    102        3    24    27X
Fisheries (Freshwater culture)
Pond area ('000 ha)              275  443      62    n.a      174   ERR        22    35   n.a.    n.a.    121   ERR
Production ('000 tons)           107  542    222        130  396    152        15    73    22        32   938    522
Incom per capita (Yuan)
Urban income per capita          381  1136    152       476  1255    132    449.6 1248.    142      460  1292   142
Rural incom  per capita          183   710    182      242   515    102    171.7 613.4    172       173  424    122
Main Consumption (kg/capita)
Grain                          206.0 245.0     22    206.9 234.7      22    263.9 244.1    -12   242.4 232.3    -1%
Edible ofl                       3.0   5.7     82       1.9  4.1    102       1.8   3.9    102      2.2  4.2      82
Pork                             8.0  17.9    112    13.9  19.2       42      8.4  11.3     42      7.8  11.6    52
Chicken                          0.7   1.8    122       1.3   2.2     72      1.4   2.7     82      2.3   3.0     42
Eggs                             1.6  2.1      32      2.1   3.1      52      1.9   2.5     42      0.7   1.1     52
Fish                             2.6  4.2      6X      2.5   3.3     32       6.8   5.3    -3X      2.1   2.2     12
a/ 1980 constant price
b/ 1987 figure
c/ Year-end livestock musher
Source: Provincial ABCs and China Statistical Yearbook



87
Annex 4
Page 1
CHMl
FORTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Indicotivo Inveotment Prograo (by Act)vito and Provinco)
(Y mi llion)
A. Subprolocta A pralood by ABC /n
Innor                                                                        S min
Activity                      Mongolia  Shoonxi    Jilin  Liaoning  Jiangxl Ouengdong S80JIng        Total   equiv.
Cropa
frulto  b                    ^         24.05     80.68   10.70     8o.?5      60.00    61.11      287.19   50.25
Too                           -          -         -       -        56.00       -        -          65.00   11.65
Mulberry                      -          8.08      -       -        12.683      -        -          20.71    4.89
Bamboo                        -          -         -       -        49.46      22.08     -          71.68   16.16
Othoro 1b                    85.00      49.58     40.18   18.97      -         20.14    20.00      178.77   87.86
Subtotal                  85.00/c   81.86/c   70.71   24.07/d  177.88    102.22    71.11/c    68s.28  119.88
Livestock
Pig                           -          -        29.06   12.64      -          -        -          42.60    9.08
Shoop                        84.00       -        29.85    6.86      -          -        -          69.21   14.66
costs                         -         14.80      -      20.92      -          -        -          85.22    7.46
Cattle                       78.71      20.67    68.28   86.10       -          -        -         188.76   42.11
Chicken                       6.72       -         -      88.88      -         10.96    68.07      111.08   28.68
Ducks                         -          -         -       -         9.77       -        9.27       19.04    4.08
Other livestock              18.00       8.00      -       7.28      -          -        -          28.28    6.99
Subtotal                 189.48      87.97    122.9  116.18       9.77      10.08    67.84      504.19  106.82
Aguaculture
Fluhponai                     -         88.00      -      s8.98      -         80.00     -         101.88   21.60
Cage fisheries               18.00       8.05     10.02    4.88      -          -        -          80.95    6.56
Prawn                         -          -         -      88.11      -          -        -          88.11    7.01
Othero                        -          -        17.80   20.80      -          -        -          88.10    8.07
Subtotal                  18.00      86.05     27.82   97.72      0.00      80.00     0.00      204.08   4.24
Agroprocosoi     b rketing
Vurit/v7o   etoro gNproc.    -           6.48      -       -        81.82       -       12.89       50.19   10.68
Livestock products            6.85      18.88      -       9.18     11.07       -        9.29       49.17   10.42
Corn procesoing              16.46      84.88      -       -         -          -        -          61.82   10.87
Foed millo                   18.60       7.06      0.00    -         8.75       -        -          29.81    6.21
Toa processing                -          -         -       -        20.89       -        -          20.89    4.48
Forestry products             -          -         2.00    8.48      -          -        -           6.48    1.16
Silkworm raisins              -         12.50      -       -        20.20       -        -          82.70   6.98
Chines  medicine              -          -        88.12   89.44      -          -        -          72.56   15.87
Othoro                       12.26      48.67     27.46   11.51     41.10     78.95    7s.88       290.70   61.69
Subtotal                  48.57    122.60      62.57   68.66    188.88     78.96    97.54      602.82  127.61
Total dL                 286.00    278.48    288.19  802.08    820.96    217.18   285.ss    1.878.88  897.00
8 million equivalont La        50.00      59.00     60.00   64.00     68.00     46.00    50.00       897.00



88
Annex 4
Page 2
B. Subprojects To Be Appraised During Project laplementation
S min
Activity                     Guanrxi    FuJIan       Hunan      Hubel      Other      Total     equiv.
.. ......................................................................................................
I Crops                           20.00      40.00      45.00       30.00      70.00     205.00      43.43
2 Livestock                       30.00      25.00       20.00      20.00      70.00     165.00      34.96
3 Aquaculture                     15.00      25.00      30.00       25.00      28.00     123.00      26.06
4 AgroprocessirglNarketing        30.00      50.00       45.00      20.00      70.00     215.00      45.55
Totat                         95.00     140.00      140.00      95.00     238.00     708.00     1SO.00
.........  ...... .  .. -----   ......      -- --      ......     ........ .............
$ million equivalent e/         20.13      29.66       29.66      20.13      50.42     150.00
C. Investment Program: Estimated Subsectoral Distribution
Live-      Aqua-    Agroproc.   Totat      S mtn       X of
Activity                      Crops      stock     culture  & Nkting    Y mtn        equiv.      total
~~~~~~~...................... ............................................... ................ .......................... ........... ... ....
Inner Morwglia                  35.00     139.43      13.00      48.57      236.00      50.00       9.14X
Shaanxi                         81.66      37.97      36.05      tZZ.80     Z78.48      59.00      10.79X
iilin                           70.71     122.59      27.32       62.57     283.19      60.00      10.97X
Lilaoning                       24.67     116.13      97.72       63.56     302.08      64.00      11.70X
Jiangxi                        177.86       9.77       0.00      133.33     320.96      68.00      12.43X
Guangdong                      102.22      10.96      30.00       73.95     217.13      46.00       8.41X
Beijing                         71.11      67.34       0.00       97.54     235.99      50.00       9.i4X.
Guangxi                         20.00      30.00       15.00      30.00      95.00      20.13       3.689
Fujian                          40.00      25.00      25.00      50.00      140.00      29.66       5.42X
Hunan                           45.00      20.00      30.00      45.00      140.00      29.66       5.42X
Hubei                           30.00      20.00      25.00       20.00      95.00      20.13       3.68X
Other                           70.00      70.00      28.00       70.00     238.00      50.42       9.22X
Total                        768.23     669.19     327.09      817.32   2,581.83     547.00     100.002
$ million equivalent e/        162.76     141.78      69.30      173.16     547.00
X of total                      29.76X     25.92X      12.67X     31.66X    100.00X
. ..................... .............................................. ................................... ........................................._  ......    _
a/ Nest subproJeets in this category hwve already been appraised by ABC and reviewed by Bank Or up. A few
subprojects are being reappraised by ABC following the Bank Group recommendatfons. Investment program in Beijing
is likely to be reduced to say $40 million equivalent. Subproject details are available on project file.
bI Includes investment in frrigation for crops and in soam instances crop processing.
ce Irrigation investments will be subJect to independent enginrering appraisal in selected cases. with
prior Sank Group approval.
dJ Figures in Yuan may not tally with those in Table 4.1 (SAN pars. 4.28) due to rounding.
e/ Exchange rate: 81 n Y4.7Z.



89
Annex 5
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Planting and Rehabilitation of Apple Orchards
Technical Guidelines for Subproject Implementation
1.          Background.  Apple planting and rehabilitation under the proposed
project would take place in Shaanxi and Liaoning provinces and Beijing municipality,
which together account for about 252 of total apple area and 21% of total apple
production in China. Many households in the project area are traditional apple
growers. However, by international standards, productivity of apple orchards is
low, ranging between 5 and 10 tons per ha.
2.          Reasons for low productivity.  A number of factors have contributed to
currently poor performance of apple orchards, which include the following: many
trees have become old and must be replaced; existing orchards are planted with
predominantly traditional, low yielding varieties (mainly local Kuo Guong); a mix of
varieties and bee-keeping necessary for effective pollination and in turn important
for improved yields and quality of fruits, are generally absent; wide spacings
between apple trees, which are provided by farmers to allow intercropping, reduce
orchard productivity as intercrops tend to compete with apple trees for moisture and
nutrients; insufficient supply of virus-free rootstocks and grafting material has
constrained upgrading and planting of apple orchards; unbalanced fertilizer
application by farmers, especially excessive use of nitrogen leads to vegetative
growth instead of fruits; farmers rarely undertake soil and leaf analysis to
determine optimal fertilizer needs of orchards; and inadequate application of plant
protection chemicals, especially in remote areas has affected yields. Essentially,
extension services to farmers are generally poor which has slowed down the transfer
of know-how from research stations and experimental farms to farmers.
3.          Nursery development.  Although a number of new varieties including Red
Fuji (from Japan) and Starkrimson Red Delicious (from USA) have been imported in
recent years and become popular in China, nursery development is still lagging far
behind in terms of commercial production capabilities for virus-free rootstocks and
grafting material. Consequently, orchard owners produce planting material on their
own farms where testing of rootstocks, buds and scions for virus-free status is
almost nonexistent.
4.            Technical standards for New Investments in Apple Orchards.  Through
the proposed project, ABC and local governments would focus on the prevailing
constraints to establishing modern apple orchards and begin to take specific steps
in support of systematic apple development programs in their respective areas, to
start with for implementing the lending program to be financed by the proposed
project. In approving individual subloans, ABC's project offices and local
Agriculture Bureaus (represented on the Project Management Committees) will pay



90
special attention to the following aspects and ensure that subborrowers comply with
these requirements through subproject supervision.
(a)         Planting Material.  ABC and local technical bureaus will ensure that
only those nurseries which are capable of supplying virus-free rootstocks and
grafting material to subborrowers are selected under the project. ABC will make
arcangements with local research institutions to verify that the selected nurseries
have established necessary facilities to check the quality of the planting material
produced at the nursery.
(b)         Variety selection.  High yielding varieties suited to local conditions
(mainly Red Fuji and Red Delicious) would be introduced under the project with an
optimal number of pollenizer trees planted at regular distance (if possible, in
combination with bee-keeping) to improve effectiveness of pollination so essential
for upgrading both yields and quality of fruits.
(c)         Orchard Management.  Appropriate pruning and tree training practices
will be introduced with due regard to genetic potential of new varieties and
physiological balance of trees through improved extension services and farmer
training.
(d)         Intercropping. Intercropping will annual crops be restricted to first
four years of plantation only.
(e)         Pesticides.  An integrated pesticide application program to protect bees
and predatory insects will be introduced to limit the pesticide application costs
and protect environment. EPA clearance for pesticide packages that will be used on
project-assisted orchards will be necessary.
(f)         Fruit Preservation.  Pre-harvesting measures (including spraying of
fruit protection chemicals) will be introduced to extend the storage period
appropriate to the genetic condition of the varieties and the types of storages
used.
(g)         Irrigation.  Irrigation facilities will be introduced in areas where
monthly distribution of rainfall is not conducive to reach potential fruit
production. However, since irrigation needs of apple orchards are generally limited
to 2-3 waterings per year, the investment costs of irrigation systems tend to be
relatively high. Though the incremental production of apples made possible by
assured irrigation, is usually adequate to provide satisfactory ratep of return on
the investment and a reasonable pay back period, ABC will require subborrowers to
explore how the use of the proposed irrigation systems could be maximized (possibly
by planting other types of fruits or providing irrigation to seasonal and high value
crops). ABC will also require subborrowers to evaluate before the investment-
decision is made, the costs and benefits of alternate irrigation systems (including
open channel, hand-held hose, sprinkler, and drip irrigation) to ensure that the
system chosen for installation is cost-effective and appropriate in terms of water
availability and water requirements. Chemical quality of water and reliability of
the sources of water will be checked in all cases.
(h)         Improvement of Existing Orchards.  Rehabilitation of apple orchards will
generally fall into three broad categories: (a) upgrading of young orchards with



91
trees within the age group of 10-15 years; (b) phased renewal of apple trees within
the age group of 15-25 years; and (c) replanting o. orchards with trees older than
25 years. In category (a), up-grading of low yielding younger traes would involve
mainly an improvement in production techniques (e.g. pruning and tree-training
measures) which in most situations can be done by farmers from their own resources
and would not require any loan assistance from ABC. Only in rare cases where
orchard sizes are large, farmers would need supplementary resources by way of a loan
from ABC. The phased renewal of apple orchards contemplated in category (b)
involves certain risks in that the remaining older trees can hinder the growth of
young trees and such mixed orchards can become breeding places of viruses infecting
the young trees. This option will, therefore, require careful technical evaluation
and completion of renewal in a relatively short period. Uprooting of old trees with
uneconomic production levels (item c) will be supported by the project to take
advantage of increased production possibilities by planting of high value and high
yielding varieties.
(i)         Storage and Transport facilities.  ABC will ensure that the orchards
financed have an access to roads, transport and storage.
5.          General.  In view of the special characteristics of apple planting and
rehabilitation, ABC will finance investments in orchards on the basis of a case-by-
case appraisal which will be reviewed by technical staff at the provincial level,
supported by supervision by the Technical Expert Group at the Head Office.



92
Annex 6
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Citrus Development in Jiangxi and Guangdong
Technical Guidelines
A. SUMMER ORANGE DEVELOPMENT IN JIANGXI PROVINCE.
1.          General.   Provincial ABC and the Citrus Development Center (CDC) at
Ganzhou will ensure that the project funds are used mainly for planting of improved
varieties of summer (Valencia) oranges. In addition, budwood mother trees should be
healthy, disease free and with desirable horticultural qualities.
2.          Scion sources.  There are some thirty-two scion varieties in Ganzhou
prefecture and selection will be made on the basis of the best available
horticultural information. At this stage, this would include Valencia and Pengan
Navel. CDC will collect variety trial data from all sources in the prefecture and
evaluate it to assess horticultural potential of tested varieties.
3.          Rootstocks.  All rootstocks and scion material will be virus indexed and
from virus free sources. CDC will ensure (and keep records to that effect) that all
planting material, both root stocks and scion, are from controlled mother plantings
of virus indexed material. The problem of yellow shoot prevalent in southern China,
should receive particular attention.
4.          Nursery Requirements and Quality.  Nurseries will be required to provide
trees with the bud union at least 10-15 cms above ground level after soil
subsidence. Nursery technicians will be provided training in field propagation from
seed collection and storage. If necessary, planting of budlings will be deferred by
one year to attain adequate tree size.
5.          Land Suitability and Planting Distance.  Horticultural lime or dolomite
limestone will be added in the terracing stage (mixed with manure and green manure)
to raise pH levels to the 6-6.5 range. The planting distance will be 5m. X 2.5 m.
with immediate trees to be removed at about 6 years with the final number of trees
remaining at about 800/ha.
6.          Irrigation.  Hand held hose system will be used for providing irrigation
to citrus. CDC will also evaluate the macro-jet system introduced at the
experimental station in Lingling state farm in Hunan. CDC will implement a research
and advisory program linking irrigation frequency to plant needs.
7.          Cultural Practices.  CDC will introduce, after necessary evaluation,
methods to incorporate organic fertilizers and optimize tree growth. CDC will also
test pruning methods, frequencies and intensities and make recommendations in this



93
respect.
8.          Packing House Facilities.  Packing house facilities will be equipped
witht grading, washing, fungicidal treatment, waxing, sizing facilities; an
additional separate fungicidal dip tank to treat fruit within 24 hours of harvest
which cannot be put through the packing line within that time or which is placed in
storage for up to two weeks during peak harvesting period; and a 3-ton truck for
field fruit collection.
9.          CDC will obtain technical information on post harvest fungicidal
treatments and storage techniques from South China Institute of Botany, China
Academy of Science, Guangzhou. CDC will arrange training courses for packers,
technicians and managers using the video films produced by the South China Institute
of Botany and other extension media.
10.         CDC's Role. CDC's role in project implementation will include the
following functions: develop short-term and long-term plans for orchard development
including orchard design and planting, nursery development, technology and training
aspects, quarantine services including virus indexing, machinery and equipment
supply and provision of integrated services for production, processing, storage,
packaging, transport and marketing using orange growers' cooperative organizations.
CDC management will have citrus growers' participation and CDC will build up the
required managerial skills in its own organization.
B. HONGJIANG (SUMMER) ORANGE DEVELOPMENT IN GUANGDONG PROVINCE.
1.          Cultural Practices.  Recommendations for Jiangxi province orange
development apply to Hongjiang summer orange development. Further evaluation of
Valencia oranges and late strains of Mandarin will be conducted with a view to
extending the citrus season. ABC will approach the provincial government to arrange
for this evaluation through the Guangdong Horticultural Society and Guangdong
Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
2.          Research. The Guangdong Horticultural Society will introduce, in
addition to ongoing research on reducing the size and number of seeds in Hongjiang
orange, a research program for improving the size of the Hongjiang fruit.
3.          Irrigation.  Irrigation would be provided by hand-held hose system.
Sprinkler systems, being too costly, will not be financed from the project funds
until further economic evaluation of the system is undertaken by concerned research
institutes.
C. CONCURRENT EVALUATION
ABC Head Office will arrange an evalution of the citrus development
component in Jiangxi and Guangdong at the end of 1991 and 1992 and forward reports
thereon to Bank Group for comment.



94
Annex 7
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Green Tea Rehabilitation in Jiangxi
Technical Guidelines
1.    Background.  The tea rehabilitation program will be implemented in ten
counties--six in Shangrao prefecture (4667 ha) and four in Yuchuan prefecture (1200
ha). Shangrao counties will include: Wu Yian, Dexing, Wan Nian, Wu Shan, Yan Shan
and Shangrao and the Yuchuan counties will include Gaoan, Fenching, Changao, and
Chan Zhu. Most counties in Shangrao prefecture produce green tea while those in
Yichuan produce Oolong tea. Besides rehabilitation of tea, the project would
finance expansion and modernization of preliminary processing capacity in 129
factories--114 in Shangrao and 13 in Yuchuan, and final processing capacity in one
factory each in the two prefectures.
2.    Nature of Rehabilitation.  The area to be rehabilitated falls into three
operational types, based on the condition of existing bushes and the nature of
rehabilitation required as follows.
(a)   Pruning (4693 ha).  Relatively high yielding orchards, with not more than 5Z
gaps, which are showin6 signs of decline in productivity will be pruned at a height
of 30-40 cm from the ground level. The soils will be deep-ploughed to a depth of
30-40 cm along with the application of 33.75 tons/ha of organic matter followed by
1.5 tons/ha of urea every year. This would enable the first 30-50 cm of soil to be
made more fertile with a concurrent increase in soil organic matter (from the
present 1-1.8Z to 2.5-3Z) which will increase moisture retention capability of the
soil leading to a vigorous growth of plants. The plant population will be
maintained at 20,000 plants per ha by gap filling as necessary. To achieve adequate
bush spread, a further light cut would be given one year after pruning which will
promote the growth of further lateral branching. By the second year, bushes are
expected to achieve a diameter of 1.2 to 1.3 m and would cover 80-85% of the ground
surface. Harvest of fresh leaf will commence in the second year after pruning.
(b)   Rejuvenation (294 ha). In areas where the variety of tea is of good quality
and the gaps are not more than 20%, rejuvenation of the bushes will be undertaken by
low cutting of bushes at a height of 5-10 cm from ground level. Such an operation
will promote growth of new shoots through root suckers and thus help the bush to
attain a better spread. The soils would be made more fertile by deep ploughing and
fertilizer applications as in (a) above. Gap filling will be undertaken as required
to maintain the population of plants at 20,000 plants per ha.
(c)   Replacement planting (880ha).  Improved varieties of young tea plants will
established in the inter-rows of inferior varieties of old tea, having more than 602
gaps with a view to upgrading the stock. Farmers will be able to harvest some leaf
from old tea till such time as new tea comes into production in year 3. The old



95
plants would thereafter be uprooted in the 4th or 5th year, leaving behind a
completely new stand of high yielding young tea of good quality. Soil improvement
and fertilizer applications will be similar to that for (a) and (b) above.
3.    Tecbnical Guidelines for tea rehabilitation.  Tea gardens to be rehabilitated
by pruning, rejuvenation and replacement planting will conform to the following
technical criteria:
-- The gradient of the land should not be more than l1Z;
-- Effective soil depth must be at least 0.7 meters;
-- The pH of the soil must be between 4.5 and 6.0
-- Organic matter (carbon) content of the soil must be at least 22;
-- Areas selected for replanting should be those which have not less than 602
gaps; for pruning areas, the gaps should not be more than 5Z; and for
rejuvenation areas, the gaps should not be more than 20X. -- For replacement
planting only varieties approved by the state will be used including the
following:
'i) In Wu Yuan county: Clone Shang Mei Zhou or seed Futing;
(ii) In all other counties: above varieties, along with clone Dan
Mien Bai and seed varieties Long Jun 43 and Ju Ken; and
(iii) Any other varieties which may be approved by the state
in future.
-- At least 200 ha (out of 880 ha identified for replacement) will be
planted with the above named clonal varieties, while seed varieties listed
above may be used for the remaining area.
-- In order to obtain the best quality seed, the tea gardens/areas from which
the seed would be collected should not be plucked from spring until
seeds are collected in October. In tea areas earmarked for seed collection,
the first spring application must be a compound (NPK) mixture, and thereafter
at least two applications of phosphate and potash (P,K) will be given before
seeds are collected;
-_ In commercial nurseries, polybags should be used for raising clonal
plants;
4.    Expansion of Preliminary Processing Factories.  Expansion of preliminary
processing capacities will be undertaken mainly to accommodate incremental tea leaf
producion from the proposed project. To avoid establishment of excess capacities,
ABC project offices will require local Tea/Agriculture bureaus and subborrowers to
provide with each subloan application, a map of the relative leaf production zone
(usually a township) showing location of the factories to be expanded, and of other
factories serving the zone; aggregate preliminary processing capacity available in
the zone vis-a-vis current and potential leaf production; additional capacity
needed; and the timing for establishment of the additional capacity. Subborrowers
will be encouraged to use existing surplus capacities in other factories through
contractual arrangements, before undertaking the proposed expansion. The timing for
the expansion of the preliminary processing capacities, currenty scheduled for year
2 and 3 of the project, will be adjusted in light of these zonal plans.
5.    Final Processing. Expansion of final processing factories, one each in



96
Shangrao and Yuchuan will be undertaken in year 2 of the project, based on an
assessment of the progress made in the proposed tea rehabilitation program for year
1.
6.    Environmental Aspects. Preliminary tea processing utilizes fuelvood for about
702 of its current energy requirements. In future, this is expected to be reduced to
502 while coal use will increase to 302 (from 202) and electricity to 202 (from
102). Even with 502 use of fuelwood, the envisaged project production of 8,000 tons
of preliminary processing tea by year 7 would require 37.000 m3 of fuelwood
annually. To preserve ecological balance, the provincial government should ensure
that areas where trees are felled for fuelwood are reafforested in the year of
felling by intensifying the current afforestation programs. ABC should make this as
a covenant of subloan approval.
7.    Organizational Aspects.  Local Tea/Agriculture bureaus will be responsible
for: training of village and township level technicians on the application of
technical guidelines and criteria for selection and rehabilitation of tea gardens;
timely establishment of nurseries to raise the requisite number of plants and
subsequent distribution of these plants to farmers; monitoring compliance with
technical aspects of the projects; and rectifying any problems that are encountered
in the early stages of project implementation. The county governments will set up a
leading group to coordinate the functions of different organizations, and be
responsible for informing the Tea/Agricultural Bureaus about the annual requirements
of planting material; and coordinating procurement of machinery for tea processing
factories (per Bank Group guidelines).
8.    Concurrent Evaluation.  ABC Jiangxi and ABC Head Office will review the
progress in the tea rehabilitation component semi-annually and report their findings
to the Bank Group through progress reports.



97
Annex 8
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PASTURE-BASED LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
IN INNER MONGOLIA, JILIN, SHAANXI AND LIAONING
Area Management Planning (AMP) 1l
1.    Background.  The project would introduce AMP in eight pilot townships in Inner
Mongolia (5), Jilin (1), Liaoning (1) and Shaanxi (1) to train concerned local
government and ABC staff in using AMP methodology and related computer-aided models
for planning grazed ecosystems. With help of AMP, local project offices and
government technical staff will begin to monitor range-land based livestock
development initially for investments financed by the project and later use this
methodology for planning and monitoring future livestock development in other
grassland areas. The project is supporting the pilot program for AMP since it has
the potential to become an important tool in local governments' rangeland
development processes both at micro-and macro levels. Recognizing the utility of
the AMP approach as a critically needed elemernt in grassland management (which a
plethora of existing laws and rules do not necessarily achieve), ABC and the
provincial governments have used UNDP technical assistance ($50,000) and local funds
to hire the Ranching Systems Group at Texas A & M University for providing technical
training to their staff to use AMP.
2.    AMP concept.  AMP primarily draws upon an integrated approach called the
Resource Systems Planning Model (RSPM) developed by the Ranching Systems Group at
Texas A & M University for nationwide distribution in USDA-Soil Conservation Service
field offices. The system allows the user to inventory forage and animal resources,
conduct enterprise bioeconomic optimization analyses, and determine economic
viability of long term investments in land management technologies. Using a
computer-aided model for planning of grazed ecosystems (RSPM), AMP facilitates
processing of comprehensive inventory and evaluation of resource capabilities and
limitations, as a basis for choosing, implementing and evaluating actions required
to meet the objectives of livestock development within the context of sustainable
development. It must be noted that AMP is not a one-time planning exercise: AMP
would be a tool for continuing assessment of the balance between forage and fodder
availablity, and existing and projected livestock inventories.
3.    In a step-wise procedure, AMP helps the project implementation agencies to
indentify objectives and goals of proposed livestock development, assess the present
and potential resources to meet the objectives, define technologically appropriate
development alternatives best suited to available resources, and establish livestock
development alternatives for individual management units (such as a ranch or a
household or a state farm) with reference to available resources at that level. AMP
1/ Details of AMP are available in the project file.



98
would also help to carry out financial and economic analysis of the livestock
development alternatives to assess the costs, and benefits accruing to the basic
management-unit and periodically review the development alternatives on the basis of
additional information becoming available (including during individual growing
seasons) from the basic management unit for livestock development.
4.    Role of AMP in the proposed project.  For the proposed project, the AMP
process will aim to establish, initially in eight pilot areas, a formal,
monitorable, agreement between villages/townships (sumu) and higher levels of
government that the stocking rates will not exceed those permitted by grassland
resources and that the local governments would take the responsibility to ensure
that these agreements are honored. After necessary training of ABC and local
government staff, this process will be extended in phases to the rest of the project
area. For assessing the grassland resources that will be used by the proposed
project, AMP was not available. The Bank Group therefore required ABC and local
governments to carry out an independent field appraisal for each sub-project area as
a prerequisite for lending under the project.
5.          Rangelands in China and in particular in Inner Mongolia are increasingly
deteriorating due to overgrazing and conversion of highly productive rangeland to
farmlands. In the project areas, rangeland resources are deteriorating in townships
south of Hailar in Hulunbeir league, Zalantun and Zhelimu prefectures in Inner
Mongolia and Baichen prefecture in Jilin. In these areas preliminary assessment of
grassland resources was completed before the appraisal by the Bank Group. In areas
north of Hailar in Hulunbeir league, pasture resources are generally underexploited
and, therefore, project lending will begin there with simultaneous updating of
grassland resource information. For carrying out preliminary assessment of
grassland resources for subprojects in Inner Mongolia, ABC used experts from the
Grassland Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences and for
subprojects in Jilin, experts from the Institute of Grassland Science of
Northeastern Normal University of Changchtn. These experts will be available to ABC
for advice and supervision throughout project implementation and to assist in the
implementation of the AMP pilot program. In Shaanxi and Liaoning where the proposed
rangeland based livestock investments are relatively small, ABC has arranged with
the provincial agricultural bureaus to complete the grassland resource assessment
before lending begins. ABC and the local governments would use AMP to continuously
update this assessment and to provide technical advice to project-assisted
households.
6.    Organizational Arrangements for AMP.  For the purposes of application of AMP
to the proposed project, ABC and the provincial governments would use existing
organizations and staff with coordination provided by local leading groups. At the
grassroots level (township/banner/state farms), a group will be established to
implement the AMP process at individual sub-project sites. Members of this group
will include representatives of ABC, government, Bureau of Animal Husbandry (BAH),
grassland and animal husbandry stations in the project area and, for state farms,
the Bureau of State Farms (BSF). This Group will be responsible to collect
essential rangeland and livestock information for AMP analysis which would be done
by AMP Groups at the county/sumu level. At the county/sumu level, the AMP group
will be the key unit to use a computer-aided AMP model and analyze resource and
livestock inventories, land use plans, forage and fodder budgets and plant-livestock
relationships and provide its assessment and recommendations to the grassroots level



99
AMP Groups. Final decisions concerning increases and decreases in livestock numbers
to ensure that adequate forage and fodder balances exist at the household or
township level will be taken at the township level with assistance from the local
AMP groups. The grassroots AMP groups will monitor the compliance of the household
units with resource conservation advice and livestock development strategies at the
sub-project site generally on a yearly basis. It will also follow-up on the
recommendations of the county and sumu level AMP Group on forage and fodder
development.
7.            The county/sumu level AMP group will include representatives of ABC,
the Bureau of Animal Husbandry (BAH), Butreau of State Farms and representives of the
household management units. AMP groups at the prefecture and provincial levels will
perform essentially planning and monitoring functions for AMP. These higher level
groups will include members of resource and livestock Institutions familiar with
local conditions possessing the expertise to determine if improvement practices
(rangeland, livestock and nutrition) are both economically and ecologically viable.
8.          Follow up.   The provincial governments of Inner Mongolia and Jilin
which have major programs for rangeland-based livestock development recognize the
need to develop an institutional framework capable of mobilizing available expertise
for rational planning of resource use and toward this objective AMP provides a
useful beginning. ABC has signed a memorandum of understanding with the two
provincial governments for the proposed introduction of AMP in six pilot
demonstration sites in the project areas, indicating the role of participating
agencies in implementing AMP and the cost-sharing arrangements. The provincial
governments are also expected to authorise sumu and township governments to collect
a small fee from the beneficiaries of the project to pay for the cost of AMP.
Similar arrangements have been worked out for the pilot projects in Liaoning and
Shaanxi. The Bank Group will assist ABC and provincial governments in the
implementation of the pilot projects through supervision and UNDP technical
assistance.



100
Annex 9
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OF AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
1.          Introduction. The main objectives of the project-assisted institutional
development program would be as follows.
-- upgrade ABC's financial management;
-- develop ABC's longer term lending strategies and programs, coinciding with
the national Eighth Five Year Plan;
-- assist ABC in the review of its lending policies for its major client
groups (TVEs, state farms and beneficiaries of poverty alleviation programs);
-- assist ABC to define and upgrade its management information system;
-- provide office technology and equipment to improve ABC's operational
efficiency;
-- provide training to senior staff in financial management, foreign exchange
operations, modern accounting systems and internal audit; and
-- strengthen trainers' training in ABC's three national colleges initiated by
the Third Rural Credit Project, and provide special courses in project
appraisal, management, monitoring and agroindustry financing to senior-and
middle level staff at ABC Headquarters and provincial branches.
2.           Rationale. The overall thrust of the project's technical assistance
program would be to prepare ABC to respond more effectively to its changing role,
from a fiscal organ of the state to that of a full financial intermediary. Since
its inception in 1979, ABC has taken important steps to build up considerable in-
house capability in financial management. Previous IDA-assisted projects have
contributed to this process (SAR, paras. 1.10-1.14). The proposed project would
expand upon this effort and support new initiatives.
3.          Design of the Institutional Development Program.  Rural Credit I and II
projects introduced ABC branches in three provinces (Guangxi, Fujian, and Hunan) to
standard techniques in financial and economic appraisal of investments (including a
project appraisal manual prepared by ABC with IDA assistance) and related staff
training. Rural Credit III Project continued this activity in six other provinces
(Sichuan, Yunnan, Guizhou, Anhui, Henan and Hubei) and also introduced a trainers'
training program in project appraisal and other banking subjects for ABC's three
national training institutes and lower level secondary vocational schools to build
in-house training capabilities in ABC and extend the benefit of training to
provinces not served by specific IDA projects and eventually to the ABC system
nationally. It was only with Rural Credit III Project (which was larger in terms of



101
both geographical coverage and the Credit amount) that ABC and the Bank Group began
to place much emphasis on upgrading ABC's overall financial management.
4.          As a part of Rural Credit III project and the preparation of the
proposed (fourth) project, specific analytical activities focussing on ABC's
financial management issues included: the six system reform studies; a financial
appraisal of ABC's operations in Jiangxi and Liaoning provinces by a consulting
group from France (Annex 2, Attachment 1, para. 1), and ABC's recent nationwide loan
portfolio review (Annex X, Attachment 13). Additionally, the Bank Group's recent
report on China's Financial Sector Review (1989) focussed on issues in institutional
development of China's specialized banks including ABC. Specific initiatives that
would be supported by the proposed project have been derived mainly from the
recommendations of these four major tasks. Given the enormous size of ABC
operations, some of the institutional development initiatives would necessarily be
of a catalyst in nature, requiring much follow-up by ABC headquarters. The Bank
Group would assist ABC in this follow up through project supervisions, possible
follow-up LoanlCredit and by arranging bilateral technical assistance.
5.          Against this background, the main elements of ABC's institutional
development program are reviewed below and summarized in attached Table 1 which also
indicates how various activities would be financed, their timing and ABC departments
responsible for implementation.
Main Elements of ABC's Institutional Development Program
I. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
6.          Financial Management Symposium (March 1991) (Annex 9, Table 1, item 1).
A symposium in ABC's financial management will be held in Beijing in March, 1991.
The timing of the negotiations was agreed to during negotiations. ABC presidents,
vice presidents and senior management (directors of planning, credit, funds and
accounts departments) at the headquarters and provincial branches, officials of MOF,
SPC and PBC, overseas experts and Bank Group staff would participate. ABC and other
participants would prepare background papers for the symposium, based on the
findings and recommendations of the six in-house systems reform studies completed
under the Third Rural Credit Project, Sema Group's financial appraisal of ABC
operations in Jiangxi and Liaoning, ABC's loan portfolio review and the main
recommendations of the Bank's Financial Sector Review (FSR) in so far as they relate
to ABC's institutional development and broader financial sector reform aspects. The
symposium would focus on the progress made by ABC so far, in regard to financial and
other reforms and address mainly the following issues.
-- Strategic Planning. Chinese banks including ABC, operate on the basis of
annual business and credit plans. Medium-or long-range planning backed by a
quantified analytical base, and clear linkages with annual planning and budgeting
process is, by and large absent, in all banks including ABC. The symposium would
discuss the ways in which the long range planning processes could be introduced in
ABC.
-- Annual Credit Plan. Substantial improvements could be made in ABC's credit
plan formulation and approval processes focussing on the point that, over the medium
term, Chinese banks including ABC should be using indirect methods (interest rates)



102
to ensure more efficient resource allocation, and that ABC must institutionally
prepare to assume greater responsibility in subloan decision-making, requiring more
rigorous credit rating of clients and risk analysis.
-- Lending Policy. ABC has recently issued elaborate guidelines for credit-
rating of clients, collateral and guarantee requirements, and lending authority of
branches. However, ABC should expand upon these guidelines for more effective loan
management to cover aspects such as credit-deposit ratios, maturity dietribution of
'Loans, concentration of credit to a single borrower or sector, flexible interest
rates which would vary according to credit risk besides loan maturities, variable
down payment requirements consistent with the credit eligibility of clients, etc.
-- Monitoring of Loan Portfolio. Recently, ABC has taken important steps in
evaluating its loan portfolio nationwide (Annex 2, Attachment 1, paras. 13-19) and
by issuing trial regulations for portfolio monitoring and evaluation on a continuing
basis. 1 Future actions on this topic would include: evaluation of the new
monitoring system in terms of its adoption and use by the branches, its integration
with the accounting system, impact on collection of irregular loans, and
contribution to improved portfolio management.
-- Assets and Liabilities management. The structure of ABC's assets and
liabilities is rapidly changing, so also the interest cost of various sources of
funds and risks on different types of credits. ABC's reliance on interbank market
has also increased and its recourse to the People's Bank for liquidity management is
more frequent than before. ABC should regularly monitor the structure of its
liabilities and assets at all levels, interest spreads, risks and the implications
to overall liquidity and profitability of the system (Annex 2, paras. 2-10)
-- Assets Valuation. Chinese accounting principles in China though broadly
consistent with international standards do not cover some important aspects as
follows: accounting of asset losses and bad debts is based on actually realized
amounts and the practice of establishing reserves or writing down of assets does not
exist; the principle of valuation of assets at lower of cost or market value is
still not used; and provisions for uncollectible or bad debts are not established
except that starting from 1988, MOF has authorized ABC to make provisions up to
0.1-0.2Z of the outstanding loans, which amounts, at least for several more years,
would be inadequate to clear the backlog of bad debts (Annex 2, Attachment 1, para.
18).
-- Internal Audit and Controls. During the past two years, ABC has placed
strong emphasis on upgrading internal audit. A separate internal audit department
has been set up at all levels (down to prefecture) and coverage of transactions by
1/  ABC's now monitoring procedure would require all branches to classify loans into regular ;nd
irregular (overdue) loans, and all irregular loans into three categories, namely overdue loans (generatly
less than two years arrears), sticky loans (loans difficult of recovery) and bad or Irrecoverable loans
(Annex 2, attachment 1, footnote 10). ABC's higher level branches (and finally headquarters) would monitor
the status of the loan portfolio on a quarterly basis and ensure that all irregular loans are audited. The
branches' business plans would lay down specific targets and action programs for recovery of ovordue and
sticky loans and for legal actions against borrowers of bad loans. ABC presidents at all levels would
quartorly review the progres and take further steps to Improve loan portfolio management. Staff rewards
and penalties would in future be based, among other things, on the degree of performance in the improvement
of tho quality of loan portfolio.



103
audit has been increased. The number of staff assigned for internal audit was
nearly doubled. However, ABC recognizes that internal audit organization needs to
be further strengthened in terms of additional staff, training of audit staff,
defining audit procedures and ensuring independence in reporting of and follow up on
audit objections. ABC is particularly looking for international experience in this
regard.
-- Income and Expense Statements and Balance Sheets. ABC's annual statements
of income and expenditure and assets and liabilities provided to outside agencies
(including bilateral and multilateral agencies) do not contain adequate details
which are essential for financial analysis. Internal financial reports are not
released except to the government (MOF and PBC) and the format is designed mainly to
monitor compliance with the credit plan and expense control rather than to
facilitate detailed financial analysis. For improved financial management, ABC must
introduce internationally accepted formats for compilation of income and expenditure
statements and balance sheet.
-- Contract System. The contract system introduced in ABC needs to be
broadened to include more financial indicators to increase its effectiveness and
incentives to staff.
-- Financial management in RCC system. ABC has the leadership responsibility
and supervisory role with regard to the vast RCC system. ABC recently asked all
RCCs to evaluate their loan portfolios as of end 1988, on the same lines as was done
in ABC (Annex 2, attachment 1, para. 15) and to follow loan monitoring system which
ABC has introduced for its own branches. The symposium would discuss issues in RCC
system's financial management and the initiatives ABC, PBC and the government should
take to strengthen the RCC system. The current relationship between ABC and the RCC
system is mainly complementary and the issue is, how far i, is, or should be
competitive to promote efficiency of rural financial intermediation? The government
has also agreed to review this aspect through a study of Rural Investment and
Finance, which it would carry out under the proposed project (SAR, paras. 4.26 and
5.11).
7.          The -ymposium is expected to create an awareness among ABC's senior
management nationwide on key issues in ABC's rural financial operations and provide
a forum to discuss further initiatives needed within ABC system, and by PBC and MOF.
Details of symposium's timing, topics, participation and responsibility for
discussion papers were firmed up during negotiations. After the symposium, ABC
Headquarters would hold (at least two) workshops for senior and middle level
management at the provincial level, at different centers during 1990-91. During the
mid-term review of the project scheduled for the second half of CY92, the government
and the Bank Group would review the progress made in introducing new initiatives in
ABC's financial management.
8.          Upgrading senior staff skills in financial management. (Annex 9, Table
1, Item 2). The project would finance at least two ( and up to five) for senior
staff at HQ and provincial branches, in bank management including risk analysis,
financial analysis, accounting systems and cost analysis, and internal audit systems
in Beijing and other provincial centers. ABC would hire experts from abroad for the
initial few workshops.   The project would also provide funds to finance ABC senior
staff visits to overseas banks for exposure and training in financial management.



104
II. FORMULATION OF STRATEGIES
FOR MEDIUM AND LONG TERM LENDING
9.          Formulation of medium and long term lending program and related studies
and reviews including preparation of Rural Financial Sector Project for possible
Bank Group assistance in FY93) (Annex 9, Table 1, item 3). ABC is predominantly a
commercial bank for the rural sector. However, consistent with the government
policy to shift from budgetary (grant) financing to loan financing of commercial
investments by using institutional finance, ABC has begun to increase its medium-and
longer lending for bankable investments in crops, livestock, aquaculture and
agroprocessing. ABC has not yet established policies for providing long-term
finance for several types of investments and institutional arrangements to carry out
sectoral analysis and techno-economic studies. With technical assistance provided
by the proposed project, ABC would undertake several subsectoral studies, prepare
guidelines for subproject appraisal, technical support arrangements, and cost
recovery for investments in different subsectors including small irrigation projects
(with focus on grain, cotton and oilseeds production), livestock, aquaculture,
agroprocessing and investments involving technology transfer ("Spark" and "Flame"
programs). Based on the subsectoral studies and related field work, ABC would
prepare an indicative program for medium and long-term lending within the framework
that would be set by the Eighth Five Year Plan (expected 1991-95). ABC would also
use this work to develop a lending program for likely future lines of credit from
the Bank Group and other multilateral agencies. The project's technical assistance
would finance local costs and provide foreign exchange for structured overseas
visits by ABC's senior staff to financial institutions abroad, to study their
experience in longer term lending including project preparation, techo-economic
appraisal, market analysis and loan management.
III. ABC'S LENDING STRATEGIES FOR MAJOR CLIENT GROUPS
10.         Development of ABC's lending policies for major client groups.  Outside
the procurement finance for grains and other agricultural products which accounts
for over 60Z of ABC's total disbursements annually, ABC's major lending is to
Township and Village enterprises (TVEs) and the State Farm System.  Since 1984, ABC
also started playing an important role in poverty alleviation programs when the
government began to provide to ABC special funds for providing concessional loans to
poverty groups. ABC faces important institutional and financing issues in the
management of loans to the above three categories of clients, which it proposes to
address with technical assistance from the project.
11.         Township and Village Enterprises (Annex 9, Table 1, item 4(i)). During
the past decade, the Chinese economy witnessed a remarkable growth in rural
industrialization and other non-agricultural production accompanied by large
increases in rural personal incomes and major shifts in the structure of the rural
labor force. This growth was characterized by proliferation of township and village
enterprises (TVEs). In recent years, the TVE sector has faced an increasing
competition and market saturation, complicated by economic austerity measures
(including credit ceilings, restrictions on access to raw materials and energy)
which the government had to introduce to curb inflationary pressures. This has
resulted in numerous investment failures and financial problems for the TVE sector
which has led the government to introduce restructuring and rationalization of the



105
sector. ABC and the RCC system are directly involved in this process since together
they have provided a credit of over Y80 billion ($17 billion) to TVEs. ABC alone
has financed over half a million TVEs with outstanding loans of about Y40 billion or
502 of the total. ABC's recent loan portfolio review has indicated that the problem
of bad loans is more serious in the TVE sector than in other areas of lending. 2/
12.         Against this background. the project would provide technical assistance
to ABC to undertake a TVE restructuring study on TOR acceptable to the Bank Group
and define lending strategies addressing diverse issues in TVE financing, focussing
on the following: recent initiatives in restructuring the TVE sector (much of it
through administrative measures rather than market forces) and related financing
packages; ABC's loan collection problems in the wake of numerous investment failures
and TVEs' financial problems; recent developments in the legal and regulatory
framework for TVEs and how these affect ABC operations; institutional skills (staff
training) needed within ABC to efficiently manage the TVE portfolio; arrangements
for technical assistance and support services for TVEs to improve their management;
and policy for financing of new TVEs, especially in the context of uncertainties
currently faced by the sector in regard to its future role in the Chinese economy.
This analysis is critical for ABC to develop an approach to its future financing of
the TVE sector. This review would also be useful for preparation of the likely next
project with ABC for possible Bank Group assistance, which would among other things
focus on rehabilitation of TVEs financed by ABC.
13.         ABC Financing of State Farms. (Annex 9, Table 1, item 4(ii)).  The
project would provide technical assistance to ABC to review its past lending to the
state farm system and develop future strategies. Specifically, this review would
document ABC's experience with lending to different types of state farms and
enterprises started by tnem; the role that the state farm system can play in
modernizing the rural economy through cooperation with the household farms and
enterprises located outside the boundaries of the state farms, the strengths and
weaknesses in the state farms' present organization, management, resource
mobilization and investment strategies, government and ABC role in financing state
farms, and cost recovery aspects of ABC and government financing. The review would
be based on detailed study of ten representative state farms (including those
financed by previous IDA projects with ABC), use these findings to recommend any
reforms needed in ABC financing of state farms, and how ABC could assist in
accelerating the reform processes in the state farm system through its expanding
lending operations. The review would also address the question as to how ABC can
strengthen its own organization and staff skills to process and supervise lending to
the state farm system, which is becoming more complicated and diversified.
2/ The most atriking characteristics of China's TVE sector have been its dynamism (rapid growth,
ability to take advantage of opportunities, and flexible adjustment), competitiveness (vis-a-vis the stat.
cector), divorolty (in terms of Institutional arrangements. level of development, etc), outward orientaton
(in torso of product markets), community orientation (most firm, hove close formal and informal ties with
their home communities, and very few relocate across community boundaries) and factor Immobility (labor,
capital, and ethor key factors of production to a large extent do not move among communities which Is
eonerally the cose for the entire Chinoee economy).



106
14.         The state farm system has emerged as one of the major borrowers of ABC
3/ with the declining share of the government budget in financing investments in
agriculture. This trend is also reflected in the share of the state farms and
state-owned enterprises in IDA-assisted lending programs which has been sizeable.
As a part of project preparation, the Bank Group, therefore, reviewed recent
developments in the state farm system. This review indicated that the state farm
system has undergone fundamental changes during the past decade and, contrary to
common belief, the system no longer operates along the soviet-style models but is
rapidly becoming a diverse system of profit- maximizing entities with expanded roles
for family enterprise at the farm level.
15.         China's state farm system is indeed enormous.  Most of the state farms
were set up in the early years of the People's Republic as a part of the army-led
land reclamation program to strengthen defence of the border areas, resettle
demobilized army units, and promote economic development of the frontier areas. By
the end of 1988, there were 2,124 state farms with a total area of 33.7 million ha
of which cultivated land was about 4.4 million ha, forest land, 2.5 million ha
(including 393,000 ha of rubber plantations), rangeland, 15.3 million ha, and water
surface area of 760,000 ha. Total population of the state farm system is about 11.4
million of which 5.1 million are workers and staff. Prior to 1979, the state farm
system was heavily influenced by central planning processes, with little or no
incentiver to individual households, farms or enterprises within the system. The
state farm system consequently reported enormous losses and was rarely subjected to
economic forces or financial discipline.
16.         Reforms in the past ten years have significantly changed the character
of the state farm system 4l: first, the production responsibility system (PRS) which
proved successful in dismantling communal farms and promoting productivity in
agriculture and rural industry, was extended to households and enterprises within
the state farm; second, the government introduced a financial contracting system by
which the state farms were allowed to retain profits earned in excess of the
contractual obligations to the government. and which also restricted the flow of
government subsidies to the minimum to promote economically efficient management;
third, the state farm system changed the focus of their economic activities from
purely agricultural production to a combination of agriculture, agroprocessing,
light industry and trade; and fourth, state farm-sponsored enterprises were made
"independent economic entities" responsible for their profit and loss. These
changes have revitalized the state farm system, made their operations more
diversified and market-oriented, and increased their role in development of the
rural economy.
17.         Another remarkable feature has been the growing economic interdependence
S8 ABC u annual Ilnding to the stae faorm system Increosed from Y12.7 b111ton In 1986 to Y24.8 billIon
in 198S with outosnding balance. at the end of the year Increasing from Y8.96 billion to Y13.41 billion.
Compared to the stte farms, ABC lending to Individual (specialized) households has been sml ir, increasing
from Y4.68 billion In 1988 to Y7.8 billion in 1986 with outstanding balance as at end of 1988 at Y8.68
bilIIon. The proportion of medium-and long-term loans to total loans extended to the state form system has
increased from 12.6w In 1986 (YI.S1 bilI on to 16M1% in 1966 (Y2.0 billion).
4/ A paper on Recent developments In China's State Form System  is ovaltable on project file.



107
between the state farms and surrounding households and enterprises, with state farms
providing credit, technology, improved seeds, breeding stock, feed, and marketing
and other services to households and buying from them raw materials for state farms'
processing enterprises. Additional employment potential created by this economic
cooperation has been benefitting households both in and outside the state farms.
Increasingly, ABC is also using the state farm system as a channel for credit to
smallholders through contractual arrangements between the state farms and households
outside the boundaries of the state farms. ABC's direct lending to individual
(specialized) households though growing is relatively small firstly, because
provision of non-schematic lending is mainly the function of RCCs and secondly, ABC
is not institutionally designed (with branches down to township level and not in
villages) to serve numerous households, and its loan administration costs for
smallholder lending are, therefore, relatively high. The proposed technical
assistance to ABC for articulating its lending policies for the state farm system,
and defining the scope and strategies for institutional development of the state
farm system is therefore, critical and timely.
18.         Review of ABC's Poverty Alleviation Lending (Annex 9, Table 1, item 4
(iii)). As a part of the proposed project's preparation, the Bank Group reviewed in
detail the role played by ABC in handling poverty alleviation funds channeled by the
government and the People's Bank, and how the Bank Group could assist concerned ABC
departments in upgrading the efficiency of the poverty programs. The proposed
project would provide technical assistance to ABC to introduce standard techniques
of financial and economic appraisal to poverty alleviation lending to upgrade their
effectiveness and cost recovery; develop models which could help realize the
intended objectives of the poverty programs; explore possibilities of supplementing
the poverty alleviation by commercial funds to finance infrastructure investments
(processing, storage, transport); and develop organizational arrangements to provide
technical and support services using different technical bureaus. Through the
project's technical assistance, ABC would use international experience in poverty
alleviation programs, learn from failures of poverty programs in other countries,
and use this exercise to redesign its own programs. The Bank Group would closely
interact with ABC in this review and ABC staff would visit poverty programs in other
developing countries.
19.         Dimensions of rural poverty in China.  Available evidence indicates that
absolute poverty in China declined to very low levels during the last decade.
China's absolute poor number about 70 million or close to 7Z of total population
(1987 data; it is possible that this number is now higher due to inflation during
the last two years and relatively slower growth of the economy and per capita
incomes in certain regions). It is estimated that the number of rural inhabitants
with incomes less than the government's 1986 absolute poverty line of Y200 (US$54)
declined from between 200-220 million in 1979 to about 70 million in 1986. As a
proportion of total rural population, the absolute poor declined from nearly 302 in
1979 to 10% in 1986 (and about 8.2% in 1987). Incidence of absolute and relative
poverty in China's urban areas is extraordinarily low.
20.         Until the mid-1980s, Chinese government did not consider poverty
alleviation as a special development issue, and its assistance to the poor took the
shape of scattered relief operations. Successful introduction of PRS was regarded
as the main route to alleviate widespread rural poverty. However, a study by the
former Research Center for Rural Development (RCRD) indicated that the benefits of



108
PRS have not been even across the country, especially in remote and mountainous
areas and to address this problem, several initiatives other than PRS would be
needed.
21.         In 1986, the government, therefore, formulated a new policy for poverty
alleviation and indicated the main strategies which provided for combining poverty
alleviation programs with long-term regional development programs; providing
incentives for sustained economic development of poorer areas; coordinate use of
poverty alleviation funds from different sources for improved results; emphasize
extension of modern technology to poorer areas through human resource development;
provision of inputs and support services; and increasing use of economic entities
such as specialized households, rural enterprises. service agencies, nongovernmental
organizations in the implementation of the poverty alleviation program. The main
components of the poverty alleviation program include: construction of
infrastructure, development of agriculture and rural industry, human resource
development and policy adjustment. To facilitate the implementation of the poverty
alleviation program, the government redefined poverty lines (ranging between Y150 to
Y300 per capita) and identified 325 counties, mainly in (i) mountainous areas, (ii)
grassland (pastoral and semi-pastoral) areas and (iii) areas characterized by
ecological fragility (Gansu and Ningxia). In addition to the central government
support, several counties classified as poor receive provincial and regional
support. A Poor Area Development Office in Beijing handles day-to-day operations
under directions from a national leading group in Beijing. A training center, and
economic development service center have been set up in Beijing to assist in the
implementation of the program and EDI is likely to support a training program for
key staff during 1990. Implementation of the program is carried out by various
government and nongovernment agencies and the banks.  However, the banking system
plays an important role in the implementation of the program.  Out of annual funding
of Y4 billion, the government budget provides only Y 1 billion and the rest is
provided by the banking system.  ABC manages an annual lending program of Y1.4
billion earmarked for poverty alleviation.
22.         ABC's role in poverty alleviation.  As the poverty alleviation program
is new, ABC's lending policies and procedures for this program are still evolving.
ABC focuses mainly on lending for agriculture, animal husbandry, fishery, household
handicrafts, and small mining industries. A large proportion of loans have been
provided directly to households. Economic results of these program were reportedly
unsatisfactory. Monitoring and evaluation criteria introduced in 1988 are very
limited in scope. Lending procedures involve allocation of funds by ABC
headquarters and provincial branches to counties. Subprojects selected by local
leading groups are approved by ABC within this quota. Interest rates on loans are
charged by ABC at the current rate for one-year loans and to provide ABC a minimum
spread of 2.4Z, MOF provided interest subsidies at 5.5Z in 1988. MOF interest
subsidies are explicit since borrowers are required to pay interest at ABC rates
first and then claim the subsidy from MOF. However, ABC seems to be losing money on
this lending operation since loan and interest collections are reportedly poor.
23.         The proposed project provides an important opportunity for the Bank
Group to assist ABC and the government in upgrading the concepts, design,
implementation arrangements for the poverty alleviation programs and reduce their
financial costs to the government and ABC. ABC and government agencies lack
experience in handling development oriented poverty programs and this is an area



109
where the Bank Group could pass its experience on to China.  At negotiations, ABC
and the government agreed that, by December 1990, detailed TORs for the above three
reviews (paras. 10-22) of ABC's lending strategies for major clients (TVEs, State
Farms and Poverty Groups) would be prepared for the Bank Group's review, indicating
schedule of task description, timing, staffing, report preparation and review
arrangements.
IV.ABC'S MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM: LONG TERM STRATEGY
24.         Review of ABC's Management Information System, related computerization
and longer term strategies (Annex 9, Table 1, item 5) ABC's current management
information system (MIS) is in the initial stage of development and used mainly to
monitor compliance with the credit plan, tracking deposit mobilization against
targets, measuring revenues and controlling expenses against budget. 5/ With the
expanding business and changing role of ABC from an administrative agency to a
financial institution, ABC recognizes that its MIS must be reinforced. Since 1985,
ABC has invested Y400 million (about $100 million) on hardware and the recent annual
budgets are close to Y100 million ($30 million). Little money has been spent on
software development and human resource development and a longer term strategy for
MIS design, software development and hardware acquisition has not yet been
considered. Before ABC invests further amounts in hardware, it must take a hard
look at the current status of MIS and develop short- medium- and long-term
strategies. The project would, therefore, provide technical assistance to ABC to
review (i) its management information system in light of international practices and
experience and suggest improvements; (ii) review ABC's ongoing program of
computerization (hardware acquisition and software development) and (iii) develop
technology options and longer term strategy for computerization program. The
expected action plan on MIS development and automation would be broadly as follows:
3- CY1991:        Diagnosis of ABC's existing information system, and training of
ABC staff in Information System in Banking and Information System
methodology;
-- CY1991:        Develop ABC's Master Plan for MIS;
-- CY1992:        Develop regional prototype information systems for deposits and
withdrawals with customer orientation;
-- CY1993-94s     Extend regional prototypes to other regions;
-- CY1993,94,95: Introduce MIS for other business activities;
-- CY1995-2000: Generalize MIS throughout ABC system.
25.         The project would support the first two phases (1990-91 program).  This
approach was evolved with ABC as a part of the financial appraisal by the Bank Group
consultants (the Sema Group) which was discussed with ABC HQ during the project
appraisal. Some modifications in this approach are possible when the work on
5/ A similar situation exists in other specialized banks per FSR (SAR,
paras. 1.17 and 2.4).



110
Phase I is completed.
26.         Computer hardware in China's banking industry.  During the past decade,
development of information processing systems in Chinese banks included the purchase
of mainframes in PBC, BOCOM, ABC and CITIC, all of different models with no
capability to communicate with each other. These computers are used mainly for
processing information at the headquarters level. Simultaneously, the banks have
bought a large number of micro-computers (around 50,000) to equip branches and
business offices, for daily business operations and office automation. A few
offices are linked with "local area networks' to transfer and consolidate data at
local levels.
27.         Hardware at ABC HQ. ABC head office is equipped with an IBM 4381
mainframe, with a storage capability of 16 MB, linked to a disk storage capacity of
6.4 GB, consisting of 8 disk units of 800 MB each. This mainframe is linked to 40
IBM PC/XT (and local compatibles). Four IBM 3422 magnetic tape units, working at
speeds from 1600 to 6250 Bps are connected to this mainframe. The head office is
also equipped with 50 local IBM 5550 micro-computers, with Chinese characters
processing capabilities used mainly for office automation. The application system
used is the IBM system support with Chinese characters utilities on micro-computers,
and languages are COBOL, SQL/DS and CICS (the latter two on mainframe only). The
total cost of the system is US$ 1.5 million. The mainframe is still not in full
operation as the networking and software development are in progress. The system
will be fully used in the near future to store and process most data sent by lower
level branches.
28.         Hardware at ABC branches.  From the county level to the provincial
level, the branches are equipped with micro-computers linked by modems up to HQ.
While a four-level network (county-city-province-headquarters) is predominant, some
provincial branches are equipped with a few higher level computers (AL"OS 3068).
29.         Telecommunications.  From county to provinces and province to
headquarters, telephone networks are used for batch file transfers. Some real time
networks are in the process of development.
30          Coverage of ABC MIS and automation.  ABC has generally automated
accounts consolidation, and recording of daily-deposit receipts and withdrawals
including report printing and automatic passbook updating. ABC has also automated
payroll (salary and bonuses) reports (usually quarterly) at the municipal,
provincial and headquarters level and recording of basic staff information and
computerized household income and expenditure surveys. By and large, ABC's
automation and related MIS are thus accounting oriented; it handles mainly
statistical data processing (at unit level and bottom-up transmission) which saves
considerable time and administrative costs and improves upon the accuracy of the
information. Customer orientation in MIS is still very limited (for individuals or
enterprises) and MIS also does not handle portfolio analysis. Software development
is handled within ABC by its data-processing development institutes at Wuhan and
Shanghai. ABC lacks skilled personnel needed for using advanced technologies and
methods to design and use MIS for which considerable human resource development will
be needed.



ill
V. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
(TRAINERS' TRAINING AND STAFF TRAINING)
31.        Human Resource Development (Annex 9, Table 1, Items 6 and 7) The main
features of the proposed staff training program would be as follows:
--   continue support for upgrading the faculty of ABC's three national-level
Senior Staff Colleges at Tianjin, Changchun (Jilin) and Wuhan (Hubei) and of ABC's
secondary and vocational training schools in project appraisal, management,
monitoring and evaluation, and agroindustry financing;
--   and organize special courses on a priority basis for project/credit staff
in ABC HQ and project provinces as well as in provinces not so far covered by
IDA/IFAD/ADB projects and provide overseas training to selected staff in project
appraisal, monitoring and evaluation, and agroindustry financing;
32.            Trainers' Training.  ABC's three national-level training institutes
are responsible for the training of ABC's management personnel and of teachers for
ABC's 170 secondary vocational and staff training schools which offer training to
its operational staff. The ongoing Rural Credit III Project provides technical
assistance to ABC for upgrading the faculty and facilities at the three colleges,
which in turn would train the managerial staff, and teachers at lower level schools
in key subjects including project appraisal, market analysis, small enterprise
management, modern banking practices and teaching techniques. The Rural Credit III
Project envisaged that several new short-term courses would be introduced and
existing courses would be upgraded at the three colleges and vocational and staff
training schools. Through improved instruction, it is envisaged that ABC schools
would gradually turn out better trained managerial and operational staff nationwide,
thus helping to improve the range and quality of ABC services, and contributing to
more efficient internal management. Specifically, the Rural Credit III project
provided for: (a) overseas training for selected faculty members of the three
colleges (including senior management staff who often teach at these colleges); and
(b) visits of overseas teachers (consultants) to assist the three colleges in
designing and teaching new courses; and (c) purchase equipment, library resources
and facilities for reproducing teaching materials.
33.            The trainers' training under Rural Credit III project had a slow
start. Proposals developed by British Council, Agricultural Cooperative Development
Institute in USA, USDA's Training Institute, and the Canadian International
Cooperative Training Institute for training of ABC staff in China and abroad were
not accepted by ABC because of its perception that the cost per trainee was too
high. Identification of suitable candidates for overseas training and their
language training also involved considerable delays. ABC has now selected three
teachers, one from each of the three colleges, to participate in the international
course on bank management in Thailand during 1990. On return, the three teachers
would hold similar courses in China. In September 1989, ABC also held a four-month
course to upgrade English language skills of teachers who are likely to be selected



112
for training abroad. 6/ In view of the high cost of overseas training. ABC now
proposes to pay for overseas trainers to visit China to teach at various training
courses for trainers and senior staff.
34.           Though overseas training of trainers has proceeded slowly, ABC did
conduct three courses in China in association with EDI in agricultural product
marketing (1987), Agribusiness Management (1988) and Project Monitoring and
Evaluation (1989) in which about 100 staff and teachers participated. Following
these three main courses, some 75 courses (with 3500 participants) were held in
different regional schools for local staff and teachers. The Tianjin Institute also
issued a text book in Chinese on agricultural project analysis which is being used
in secondary vocational and staff training schools. In April 1990, another training
course in project monitoring was held in China with EDI participation. Among other
initiatives, ABC issued in 1988, a manual on pasture and sheep development (prepared
with bilateral assistance from New Zealand) and a manual on agroprocessing (with
bilateral assistance from Sweden) is under preparation. A manual on Monitoring and
Evaluation prepared by ABC with assistance from the Bank Group staff is being tested
in the field and would be issued shortly.
35.           The training of trainers is critical to accelerate the training of a
large number of ABC's senior and middle level staff and would be continued under the
proposed project. Allowing for the unused funds under Rural Credit III project, the
proposed project would provide an additional amount of $50,000 for trainers training
and equipment and purchase of training material, books and equipment for the three
colleges, and for financing visits of overseas trainers to China. It is expected
that during 1991-92, a total of six courses would be held in China in project
appraisal, project monitoring and agroindustry financing in China (Annex 9, Table 1,
item 6)
36.           Training of project-related staff and credit staff in other
provinces. Besides strengthening ABC's in-house training capabilities through
trainers' training program, the project would support special courses in project
appraisal, project management and monitoring, and agroindustry financing for
projectlcredit staff at the headquarters (from all units concerned with medium-and
long-term credit); in project provinces and Beijing; and in other provinces not so
far covered by any of the Bank Group/IFAD/ADB projects (item 7 of Annex 9, Table 1).
ABC would also send key officials abroad for a well structured trainirg program in
project appraisal and management techniques and for exposure to project
implementation experience in other countries.
37            At negotiations, the approach to ABC's staff training (including
trainers' training) program as above was agreed to with ABC and the government. The
training program for CY1991 would be firmed up by January 1991 and ABC would send
subsequent annual training programs for the Bank Group's prior concurrence by about
end September of the preceding year.
6/ For details of ABC's staff training arrangements, see Annex 10 of Staff
Appraisal Report for Third Rural Credit Project Report No. 6903-CHA dated
December 28, 1987.



113
VI. OFFICE TECHNOLOGY AND EQUIPMENT
38.            Purchase of office technology equipment. ABC lacks basic facilities
such as telex and facsimile machines, copiers. electric typewriters, personal
computers, telephones etc at the head office and in provincial branches covered by
the proposed project. The project would finance this equipment subject to the Bank
Group's procurement guidelines and with prior approval of the Bank Group to the
overall procurement plan indicating categoriei of items to be procured, timing of
procurement, approximate costs and the list of offices which would receive the
equipment (Annex 9, Table 1, items 9 and 10).



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC#S INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAN, 1990-93
................................................................................................................................................................
Unit            Participitating               gain             Timing     Estimated cost
Themn                            Topics                    Responsible          Departments              Activities
and agencies                                            Local   Foreign
,                                                                                                                                        ......... ............................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... ..... 
(Y)      (USS)
1. Financial  _anagement  (i) Evaluation of financial manaement  Systems Reform   At ABC Headquarters:            (i)Symposium In   March 1991    30.000    30.000
of ABC and RCCs                    reforms todate;                  Office      Agriculture and Coaserciat,        Beijing
(Policy developmInt)   (ii) Issues In ABC/RCCs' financial                         and Industrial Credit,
structure and performance;                                 Plamning              tii) Follow up    June 1991 -   S0,000           0
(Mii) Assets and Liabilities NMnagement:                      Finance and Audit    symposiums/workshops  June 1992
Current policy framework and                            Training and RCC          for branches 2/
praetices and scope for reforfm                            Departments
(iv)  Liquidity Management;                                 provincial branches;
(v)  Product development and pricing of                  People's Bank of China      Cil)Nid-term review Dec. 1992             0         0
financial instruments and services l/                 Overseas consultants       of progress in
(vi)  Follow-up on ABC's Loan Portfolio                            and IDA           financial managwment
Review including:                                                                  development
-- Loan approval procedures,                                                         initiatives
-- Loan collection performance
and strategies
--Loan write off and recapitalization
--Loan portfolio monitoring
(vif) Interest spreads, profitability.
and transactfon costs
(viii) Internal audit organization:
strengthening systces and
strategies
(ix) Experience with contract system
(x) Issues in contract system in ABC
2. Upgrading senior    Ci) Workshops for senior staff at NO and  Finanee asu    Senior and middle level    Ci) Workshops in
staff skills In         provincial branches in bank            Accounts uand    officials of ABC Head        Beijing and        1991, 1992    50,000    35,000
financial sragement        management including risk analysis  Training tlepts.    office and branches       provincial capitals   and 1993                          .o I '-
Cii) Workshops for senior accounting                     (overseas experts will be                                                              I I
staff in financial analysis,                          invited to design and    Cii)Visits to foreign 1991, 1992
accounting system  and cost                             contuct workshops)      banks and business    and 1993            0    80,000        mx
analysis.                                                                              schools                                          ''
C11i) Introduce internal audit systemlsto
for foreign capital and foreign                                                                                     30,000         0
exchange business
(iv)Training In/visits to foreign banks:
--- Banking business organization                                                                                       0    30,000
--- Foreign exchange business
--- Internal Audit
............................................................................................................................................................. .



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC'S INSTITUTIONAL DEVr'OPIENT PROGRA, 1990-93
..................................... ................ ................................................................ .... .................... . ....... ....... .... ...  
Unit            Participitating               Main             Timing     Estimated cost
Theme                            Topics                    Responsible           Departments             Activities
and agencies                                            Locat   Foreign
....................................... ................................................................................. .......... ................... ..................... ............................... ..... ............................
3. Forculation of medium Define ABC lending policies and develop   Project         Agriculture and Comercial, (i) Prepare data    Jan.- June        50,000         0
and tang-term lending  guidelines including bankability and         Office        and Industrial Credit,     base, and outline       1991
program and related    appraisal criteria, nd technicat support                          Planning               for studies       Dec.1991
studies/reviews        arrangements for: Ci) infrastructure                         Experts from:               and research
(including preparation  projects with focus an grain, cotton,                    "OA, CAAS, State Science  (ii) Overseas visits  March 91 -
of rural financial      and oilseeds production; (ii) tivestock                   and Technoloby Commission   to financial insti- Dec. 1991       25,000   130,000
sector project for      and aquatic production, processing,                      Agricultural Universities          -tutions
possible lank Group     storage, transport and marketing                         and Hq. Tech. Expert Group (iii) Project preparation
assistance         (iii) *spark" and  flf_e  projects                                                  for tikely Bantk Group  1991-92     200,000          0
including techno(ogy transfer and venture                                                assistance
capital support. 3I
4. Development of ABC's    (i) Review status of TVE financing         Project           ABC's industrial       ti) Undertake a TVE  March 1991-
lending policies for      end prepare guidelines for TVE            Office           credit dept. and      restructuring study Dec. 1991
major client groups        restructuring and merger policies                        local and overseas      on TOR acceptable to                 80,000    20.000
and procedures                                              consultants,         IDA and (ii) define
selected provincial rural lending strategies.
industry, planning and
finance bureaus and
Hq. Tech. Expert Group
(ii)Evaluste ABC's experience with       Poverty Divn.    Concerned sections in   (i) Review policies         1991       50l000   20,000
poverty allevisation lending and        of ABC           PBC, SPC and NOF       and focus ot lending
developuent lapact of subprojects                                               in selected prograns
financed and suggest design                                                     Cii) Define lending
improvements to upgrade                                                        options, subproject
effectiveness and reduce risks                                                  design, role of local
goverments, and cost
or loan recovery
criteria
Ciii) Evaluate ABC's lending policies      State Farm       Concerned sections in                                         50 t00         0
for state farms in light of the      Divn. in ABC        PBC, SPC and HOF       Mi)keviem ABC financing  1991        0              0
state farm system's changing role,                                              of selected state farms,                                 g cr >
and develop strategies for future                                              by regions, activity *                                       X
lending.                                                                       and financial performance 
S.Review ABC's manegement  Based on the recomserdations of the       Information              None             (i) Overseas expert March 1991-           0    50,000
information system and   Sema Group study: li) review ABC's        Oepartment                               to advise on HIS and  Dec. 1991
related cconuterization   mnangement information system in                                                     computerization
progre, and outline    light of international practices and                                                         progrem
longer term strategies  experience and suggest improvements;
(ii) review ABC*s ongoing program of
computerization of business operations,
and establishment of data bank, and
reporting systems; and (iii) develop
technolgy options and lonser term
strategy tor computerization program.
. ................. .................................. ................................................ ..................................................................................*...................... ..  ............ ..... ... ......... .



CHINA
FOURTH RtnAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC*S INSTITUTICOAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, 1990-93
. .................................... ........................................................................... .......................... ......................................  ......... ......................... .......... ............
Unit             Participitating                 Main              Timing      Estimated cost
Theme                              Topics                      Responsible            Departments               Activities
and agencies                                                Local   Foreign
................................... ........................................................................ ........................... ................... .............................................. ... .
6. Training of Trainers (i) Training courses for teachers of    Training Dept.               TIC  Institutes         (i) TYo courses per year:              S00.000    73.000
at three nation             national training institutes in               &              with support from         - Project Monitoring  Apr. 1991
ard lower level            Tianjin, Changchun and Wuhan (TCW)  Project Office             EDI and expatriate    - Agro-inf*astry           Oct. 191
colleges and ABC senior (and for teachers from ABC opr. depts.)              41                 consultants           - Project Appraisal   Apr. 1991
officers who could work        within China and abroad in following                                                   - Project Appraisal   Oct. 1991
as trainers             subjects: project appraisal.                                                            - Project Monitoring  Apr. 1992
(Expwnsionlcontiumation       monitoring  evaluation and agro-                                                        - Agroindustry          Oct. 1992
of Rural Credit III           industry financing                                                                     - Project Monitoring  Apr. 1993
Project's Training                                                                                                                          Oct. 1993
Program)*
(ii) Training for teachers in colleges  Training Dept.    Training Dept. and               (ii) Two or three       1991-94      2.000            0
at provincial level in above                                  TCW colleges             courses annually
subjects : courses to be conducted                                                        in project
by teachers of TCU Colleges                                                         appraisal, monitoring
and ABC's trained operational staff                                                    and agroindustry
7. Special Courses for   (iiO ) Training courses to upgrade ABC's   Int. Business   Senior credit staff               tiii) and (iv) About   1991-94   1000,000   650,000
project/credit st**f          project appraisal, supervision and and Training           HQ, provincial and          four courses each in                                                 CY
in ABC HO and Rural           monitoring capability through           Depts. and       lower level branches        project appraisal
Credit and ADS project         training uithin China and abroad.   provincial                                      monitoring  aro-irdustry,
provinces and in                                                        branches                                   and language training
provinces not so far                                                                                               within China, and
covered by proposed   (iv) Training courses in above subjects   Int. Business   Senior credit staff                overseas training in
or earlier IDA               for credit staff at provincial and  and Training           HO, provincial and         foreign banks and
projects                      lower level branches in provinces    Depts. and          lower level branches        business schools
not covered by the proposed or           provincial
earlier IDA-assisted projects             branches
8. Equipsmnt for ABC    Equipment for modernization of ABC               Informstion               None              (i)Purchase of office 1991 and         500000   20000          IV nJ   >
Headquarters        operations which will be shortly saved    Departasnt                                       technology equipment        1992                               0  cr '
to new premises In Beijing.                                                                      equipQ nt                                               * I   X
(telex, fax, xerox                                               j   x
Support facilities for Technical  Expert                                                  cschines  typewriters,
growp                    Project Office                                 laser printers. etc.)
(ii) Software packages                      0   120,000
for cozputers in US for
NIS and project analysis;
(iii)Coxputer terminals
for HO and related                         0   200,000
equiP"nt
(iv) Slide projector                        0    80C000
and micro-copy equlpm
.. ............ ....................... ...... .......... ....... ............ ... ..... ...... ...................... ........................................... ................................................................. .............



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
A8C'S INSTITUIONAL DEVELOPMENT POGRAOM     1990-93
............... ............................. *_................... ...................................... ..... ........ ..... ............ .. . .... ... ... .... ........ ......... ............. _....
Unit             Particip4tating                 Rain             Timing      Estimated cost
The3m                              Topics                     Responsibte            Departments               Activities
and agencies                                                Local   foreign
.............................................. ............................. *........ ....... .. ......... . ........ .. ....._. . ..... ...._
9. Wquipant far project                                                 Provincial
provincs                                                       ABC branches  Office technology equipment  To be determined   1991. 1992  2a 49.0S3    50.000
10.Equ%pint for notional                To be datermined                  Nationat
Training Institutes at                                                 Training                 None                to be dbtermined   1991S  1992            0    50000
Tianjin. IAn, and                                                     tinstitutes
Totat   S664C000 1.B191000
................................................................... ......................................................................................................................_
I1 At negotiations ABC Indicated to exclude the topic of product development and pricing from the swpositm. The need for inclusion of this topic in the
s _siu1  agenda wuid be further discussed with ABC amnaemont.
2t ABC would condect at least two follow-up sysposiums/workshops for the branches.  Tho need for any additional swaosiu=/semln9rs would be determined
dwirlng Banh arp suparvisions.
3/ AC wilt use the work on forculation of md1us mnd toan-term  lending program and lending policies for major elient gracps for tikely next project for
Bank Groyp and other multilateral assistance and b pleantation of the Eighth Five Year Plen.
4/ AMC#e Presidents Councit to determine allocation of staff trainfne funds for TON colleges and operationat deprtmcents In consultation with the Bank
amp.
gos



118
Annex 10
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD/IDA fiscal years              Disbursements                  2 of total
and semesters                -------------------------------
Semestral           Cumulative
1991
2nd                             30.0               30.0                10.9
1992
1st                             25.0               55.0                20.0
2nd                             25.0               80.0                29.0
1993
lst                             35.0              115.0                41.8
2nd                             35.0              150.0                54.5
1994
1st                             35.0              185.0                67.3
2nd                             35.0              220.0                80.0
1995
1st                             30.0              250.0                90.9
2nd                             25.0              275.0 1/            100.0
1/ Proposed Project Completion Date: June 30, 1995; Proposed Closing Date:
December 31, 1995.



119
Annex 11
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Onlending Terms and Conditions and Criteria for Sublan Approval
A. Onlending Terms: Government to ABC
1.    Loan period.  15 years including 5 years grace;
2.    Interest rates. On Bank Group funds onlent in local currency, government to
charge interest at a nonsubsidized rate which shall be based on ABC's weighted
average interest cost of long term domestic funds calculated in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank Group (currently at about 7.5X-8Z p.a.). This rate
will be calculated annually and adjusted accordingly. On Bank Group funds onlent in
foreign currency at a rate not lower than the prevailing IBRD loan rate or such
other market-based rate acceptable to the Bank Group;
3.    Interest spread.  Government to ensure that ABC receives a spread of not less
than 2.5? (after payment of income and adjustment taxes to MOF) or such other spread
as may be agreed between the Government and the Bank Group, between the cost to ABC
of project funds (Bank Group funds and ABC's counterpart contribution) and the
project's onlending rates to subborrowers.
4.    Exchange risk to be borne by the Government except on proceeds of IDA
Credit/IBRD Loan onlent in foreign exchange, ABC to bear exchange risk; on subloans
disbursed by ABC in foreign exchange, ABC to pass on exchange risk to subborrowers;
5.    Commitment charge.  Any commitment fee charged by IDA and the commitment fee
on IBRD Loan will be passed on by the government to ABC.
B.    Onlending Terms: ABC to Subborrowers
1.    Eligible Subprojects.  Subprojects in agriculture including crops, livestock,
aquaculture and agroprocessing which would contibute to increased production and
productivity will be financed by the project. ABC will finance only sound
investments which are considered to be technically feasible, financially viable and
economically justified. Only subprojects which are estimated to yield financial and
economic rates of return of at least 15? determined in accordance with
internationally accepted techniques of project appraisal (as outlined in the ABC
project appraisal manual prepared with Bank Group assistance) will be financed by
the project. In appraising subprojects, ABC will pay particular attention to:
choice of technology, scale of development proposed, market analysis, availability
of inputs (raw materials, energy, packing materia'ls in the case of agro-processing
subprojects), financial condition and management capability of subborrowers, and
environmental aspects.
2.    Project Beneficiaries.  ABC subborrowers will include individuals, individual
and specialized households, collectives, cooperatives, township and village



120
enterprises, state farms, enterprises and intermediary companies set up by the state
farms, local government bureaus and supply and marketing cooperatives.
Subborrowers' credit eligibility will be determined by ABC's established criteria,
including ability to contribute a specified down payment toward the project cost,
pay interest on subloans during gestation periods, and possession of a satisfactory
credit rating.
3.    Enterprise Appraisal.  ABC will carry out enterprise appraisals of borrowing
state farms and intermediary companies (usually for retailing credit to households
and collectives and providing support services including extension, input supply andj
processing and marketing of output) to ensure that these entities are financially
viable, are managed efficiently, and have the capability to handle the project
funds. Enterprise appraisals would follow the outline indicated in the Attachment.
4.    Technical Feasibility.  ABC's Project Management Committees and the project
offices will be primarily responsible to verify whether technical feasibility
studies of subprojects have been properly carried out and that technology choices
are appropriate. ABC Head Office will use the Technical Expert Group to oversee
branches' compliance with sound technical criteria in subproject appraisal and
implementation (SAR, paras. 5.5-5.6). Technical and other standards and conditions
which the Bank Group and ABC will agree upon through project documentation and
during negotiations and supervision will be observed.
5.          TEG will assist ABC's operational staff in the review and supervision of
ABC's agricultural Lie*nding operations, interact with national line ministries and
provincial bureaus on sectoral development policies and programs, liaise with IDA
missions during supervision, and participate in ABC Head Office or provincial
supervision. All major slaughterhouse proposals including designs and layouts will
be subject to a review by an expert group set up by TEG.
6.          Technical feasibility studies on subprojects will be carried out by
experienced staff of government technical bureaus, design institutes, CAS and CAAS
institutes, universities and engineering schools as the Project Management
Committees and ABC project offices may consider appropriate. ABC may also hire, if
necessary, independent consultants to appraise subprojects or provide a second
opinion on the feasibility reports prepared by local agencies.
7.    Subloan approval limits.  Generally, subloans up to Y200,000 would be approved
at the county subbranch, subloans above Y200,000 to 500,000 at the prefecture level,
above Y500,000 to Y10,000,000 at the provincial level, and subloans above
Y10,000,000 at ABC Head Office. Subprojects involving introduction of new
technologies or where lower level branches and government bureaus are not familiar
with technologies involved, will be reviewed by higher level branches irrespective
of the subloan amounts.
8.    Subloans above free limit. Subloans in excess of US$3 million equivalent would
require prior approval of the Bank Group.
9.    Interest rates.  Subborrowers will pay interest on subloans at rates which
shall not be lower than ABC's prevailing rates for similar subloans for similar
purposes, or such other annual rate as shall be positive in real terms and which
shall permit ABC to retain an interest spread of at least 2.5Z (after payment of



121
income and adjustment taxes to MOF), or such other spread as may be agreed between
the government and the Bank Group. ABC's onlending rates would be reviewed with the
Bank Group from time to time (at least annually) and would be adjusted as needed, in
light of ABC's cost of project funds, spreads and profitability and taking into
account inflation in order to ensure that interest rates to final beneficiaries are
positive in real terms. Within this framework, ABC would automatically adjust
interest rates to final beneficiaries to ensure that these are positive in real
terms, without waiting for the adjustment of onlending rates between MOF and ABC.
10.   Capitalization of Interest during grace periods.  Since ABC's accounting
procedures do not admit capitalization of interest fallen due during the grace
periods for repayment of subloans, ABC would ensure that subborrowers have the
capability to pay the interest amount until the net revenue from the proposed
subproject is adequate to pay the interest on loan. If necessary for successful
completion of a subproject, ABC will allow capitalization of interest during the
grace periods.
11.   Subborrower contribution.  Subborrower contribution (including own labor and
other contributions in cash or kind) would not be less than 302 of the total project
cost (exclusive of interest due during grace period of subloans).
12.   Subloan maturities.  Subloan maturities will be determined on the basis of an
estimated cash flow of subprojects financed, generally within 5 years for high value
seasonal crops, 7 years for livestock and fisheries, 10 years for tree crops and 5-
10 years for agroprocessing, inclusive of appropriate grace periods. Subloan
periods will not generally exceed 12 years but no more than 15. In determining
subloan maturities, due regard will be given to the repaying capacity of
subborrowers' including their obligation to pay interest on subloans during the
grace period of loans and the amount that could be retained by subborrowers for
subsistence. Also, in subloan agreements, ABC will have the right to reduce the
subloan maturities fixed at the time of the disbursement if the nominal net revenue
from the subproject financed, can bear the additional debt service charges.
13.   Collateral.  Subloans will be secured and guranteed consistent with current
banking practices and ABC regulations.
14.   Supervision.  ABC branches will supervise the use of subloans and their
collection on due dates and introduce the loan portfolio monitoring system recently
introduced by ABC on a pilot basis, to project financed subloans.
15.   Reporting.  ABC branches will require subborrowers to submit reports and
information on performance of subprojects financed which ABC may reasonably request.
C. Criteria for RCC Access to Project funds
In most situations, ABC would use rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) and supply
and marketlng cooperatives (SHCs) on an agency basis for subloan collections or
provision of marketing services. Since SMCs are mainly marketing institutions,
provide only short-term advances to farmers against commodity purchase contracts,
and have no credit staff to appraise and supervise loans, ABC would not use SMCs for
onlending of project funds. If ABC decides to use RCCs for onlending of project
funds, it would select individual RCCs for participation in the project on the



122
following criteria;
1.    Financial condition.  A participating RCC shall have a satisfactory financial
condition as determined by recent ABC/SAA audit;
2.    Equity.  A participating RCC's own funds (stocks, membership contributions,
balance of undistributed profits and free reserves) shall not be less than 62 of the
total loans outstanding as of December 31 of each year;
3.    Past-dues.  A participating RCC's past-due loans shall not exceed 202 of the
total loans outstanding, and past-due loans in arrears for more than 3 years (which
are not covered by bad debts reserves), shall not exceed 5? of the outstanding loans
as of December 31 of each year;
4.    Liquidity.  A participating RCC shall have complied with minimum reserve
requirements (generally RCC redeposit of 20-302 of its total deposits, with ABC) and
most recent annual operations shall be in profit; and
S.    Trained staff. A participating RCC shall have at least one credit officer
trained in the project appraisal courses offered by ABC;
6.    Onlending Terms: RCC to subborrowers.  Onlending terms between RCC to
subborrwers will be similar to those for ABC to subborrowers (section B above)
except that interest rates to be charged to subborrowers would not be lower than
RCCs' prevailing rates for similar subloans for similar purposes or such other
annual interest rate as shall be positive in real terms, and which shall permit
RCCs' to retain a minimum spread of 2.5Z (after payment of income and adjustment
taxes) which shall be shared between ABC and RCC according to mutual agreement;
7.    Onlending Terms: ABC to RCCs. Interest on ABC loans to RCCs will be set at a
rate based on ABC's prevailing rates for similar loans to RCCs (using criteria in
para. A-2 above), and RCCs would provide from their own funds 20? of the subproject
cost; and
8.    Repayment period.  ABC will prescribe the same repayme4nt schedule for its own
loans to RCCs as fixed by a RCC to a subborrower, with a suitable grace period;
D.    General.
1.    ABC Head Office and branches and participating RCCs and SMCs will maintain
separate accounts for project funds;
2.    ABC will allow rescheduling of project-assisted subloans and interest in
accordance with ABC's existing guidelines and report the status to the Bank Group
annuslly, along with a table showing a summary of subloans and interest fallen due,
subloans collected, the amount of past due loans and interest, age-wise
classification of past due loans and interest, and the amount of subloans and
interest rescheduled, in a format acceptable to the Bank Group.
3.    The lending terms and conditions listed in sections A, B and C above may be
revised from time to time as agreed between the Bank Group, the government and ABC.



123
Annex 11
Attachment 1
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Enterprise Appraisal Outline
A.    For State Farms.
1.    Status of Reform.   ABC's appraisal of enterprises will ascertain whether the
state farm has decentralized its operations and, if so, the nature and extent of
such decentralization outlining the new relationship between the state farm's parent
body vis-a vis individual households, collectives within the state farm and the
enterprises sponsored by it;
2.    Sources and Uses of Funds.   The enterprise appraisal will assess the parent
state farm's main sources and uses of funds for the preceding three years indicating
whether the state farm is in surplus or deficit, and the extent of payments made
to/or subsidies received from the local state farm bureaus;
3.    Financial Condition of Enterprises.  The enterprise appraisal will comment
upon the financial condition of individual enterprises sponsored by the state firm
indicating whether they are in profit or loss for the past several years and their
aggregate liabilities to the state farm's parent body, financial projections for the
next 3 to 5 years, and whether the enterprises guaranteeing the subloan are
financially sound;
4.    Management.  The appraisal will assess the quality of the state farm's
management based on the past experience with ABC subloans and assess its capability
to provide efficient management for the proposed projects.
B.    For Enterprises
1.     Nature of Organization.  The appraisal will indicate the nature of the
subborrower's organization (such as a cooperative or a collective or a company);
2.    Charter.  The appraisal will ascertain whether the borrowing enterprise is an
independent economic entity; whether it has a charter; whether the charter has been
registered with the appropriate government agency; whether the enterprise's
objectives and operational aspects such as ownership, management, amount of own
funds (equity), sponsoring bureau's or agency's financial and management
responsibility, and arrangements for distribution of profits and sharing of losses,
have been defined in the charter. The enterprise appraisal will also comment upon
whether households for whose benefit the enterprise is being set up would have a
share in the ownership, management and profits of the company and whether the
proposed contractual arrangements between the enterprises and participating



124
households are fair and equitable? If the enterprise (or a government-owned company)
is dissolved by any administrative decisions, the enterprise appraisal will assess
what will be the alternate arrangements to take over the functions of the borrowing
company and honor its liabilities to ABC? Does ABC enjoy a right to ask for a
change in the enterprise's management?
3.    Financial Condition.  The appraisal will analyze the enterprise's past three
years' operations including adequacy of owned funds, debt-equity ratio, performance
on repayment of past subloans, financial projections for the next 3-5 years, and
ability of the enterprise to provide self contribution for the proposed investment.
If self-contribution to the proposed investment is being made from the borrowed
funds, the appraisal will analyse the terms and conditions of such loans and ability
of the enterprise to repay such loans, and whether the repayment of ABC loans will
receive priority over other borrowings, and can ABC convert its loan into equity and
take over the management of the enterprise, if this course is appropriate.
4.    Guarantor.  The enterprise appraisal will assess the credit-worthiness of the
guarantor and ascertain whether the local government (finance bureau) or any other
government agency is responsible for repayment of the loan and whether the financial
condition of the guarantor or the concerned government agency is satisfactory. The
appraisal will also ascertain ABC's past experience with the concerned local
government's guarantees to determine whether these are dependable.
5.    Manager.  The enterprise appraisal will ascertain the professional background
and experience of the enterprise's manager; whether the manager can be removed if
not found suitable and if so, how and by whom; has ABC a right to suggest a change
in the enterprise management; is the borrowing enterprise obligated by an agreement
to honor ABC's suggestion?
6.    Staffing.  The enterprise appraisal will comment upon how the borrowing
enterprise's staff will be recruited; whether the qualifying criteria for the staff
are adequate to ensure smooth functioning of the enterprise; and whether unsuitable
staff can be removed and if so, how.
7.    Training.  The enterprise appraisal will comment 1pon whether the arrangements
for training of the manager and staff are satisfactory and whether training activity
has been included in the proposed subproject?
8.    External Audit and Financial Reporting.  The enterprise appraisal will review
whether arrangements for audit of and financial reporting on the enterprise are
satisfactory and whether ABC will get the audit reports regularly.
9.    General.  Participating ABC branches will prepare a report covering the above
aspects on all enterprises borrowing under the project as a basis for the subloan
decision.



125                                        Annex 12
Table 1
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
___________________________
FARM GATE PRICES FOR TRADED INPUTS AND OUTPUTS /a
Apple  Orange Wheat  Corn   Toa        walnut Beef   Pork   Wool
/b     /c      /d      /e      'f      /0      /h      /It     /J
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__------------------------
Noet Trade Status                X       X       m       X       X       X       X       X       m
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
1990 Prices
___________
Import fPrice           8/ton     n/o    544    202       110   1699      981   2477   1849   4928
Qualalty discount         %       n/a       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1
Ocean Freight           U/ton     n/a    -22       22    -22    -22    -22    -22    -22           22
CIF or FOB Shanghai(USI) 8/ton    504    522    224        88   1877    959   2466   1827   4465
CIF or FOB Shanghai (Y) Y/ton   2874   2469   1056    414   8841    4617   11568   8605  20972
Port carges A margin   Y/ton   -119   -128         68    -21   -442   -226   -678   -480    1049
Rail tranap. to Project Y/ton    -15    -15    I1    -16    -15    -16    -16    -16               15
Road transp. to Project Y/ton    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20
Price ex-mill           Y/ton   2220   2301    1103    859   8864   4256   10960   8140  22016
Processing adjustment     x         1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1
Economic price          Y/ton    1998   2071   1108    828   7527   t8so   9855   7826  22016
Financial price         Y/ton    1400   2895      s99    411   4881    8685    5266   8822   9827
Procurement price     Y/ton     n/a    n/a    508    851   8560    n/o    n/o   8628   8500
Free market prico     Y/ton    1400   2896    689    470   7418   8685    5265   6000  1288
2000 Prices
Import Price            S/ton    n/a    544    lss    100   2160    981    2752    1915   4928
Qualaity discount         %       n/a       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1
Ocean Freight           8/ton    n/a    -22        22    -22    -22    -22    -22    -22          22
CIF or FOB Shanghai(US8) 8/ton    504    522    177        76   2188    959   2780   1898   4458
CIF or FOB ShanghaI (Y) Y/ton   2874   2459    884    s87   10070   4617  12868   8916  20972
Port charges & margin    Y/ton    -119   -128      42    -18   -508   -226   -848   -446   1049
Rail tranep. to Proiect Y/ton    -16    -16        15    -15    -16    -16    -16    -16           15
Road transp. to Project Y/ton    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20    -20
Price ox-mill           Y/ton    2220   2801    8T0    814   9581    426e  12180   8486  22016
Processing odjustment     %         1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1
Economic price          Y/ton    1998   2071    870    288   8576 8880   10962   7592  22016
Financial price         Y/ton   1400   2895    599    411   4381    a8s6   6256 5        822   9827
Procurement price     Y/ton    n/a    n/a    508    851   as8o    n/a    n/a   8628   8500
Free market price     Y/ton   1400   2895    6e8        470   7418    8685    52865    000  12686
/o Sourcos: World Bank EPD projection for 1989 and 2000 In 1985 constant prices. China Customs Statisti
Commodity price., International Financial Statistics. IF.
/b Actual export price, China FOB, 1989, China Customs Statistics
/c Madarin orange, China FOB, 1989
/d F0B Canada, No. I Western Spring, St.Lawrence
/ FOB US Oulf  No.2 Yollow
/f EPO projection based on average prices of tea autioned In London.
/g Actual export price, China FOB, 1989, China Custom Statistics
/h US Beof, frozen boneless, 8SX visible lean cow meat, FOB port of entry.
/i Actual export price, China FOB, 1999, China Customs Statistics
/j Dominion Crossbred, 68's, clean CIF U.K.



126
Annex 12
CHINA              Table 2
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
___________________________
Selected Conversion Factors
Unit Price  Financial Economic Conversion
(Yuan)      Price     Price    Factor
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--
Standard Conversion Factor 1/                                       0.86
Labor
Unskilled 2/                 Y/manday        2.00       1.70       0.85
Skilled                      Y/manday        5.00       5.00       1.00
Energy
Electricity                  Y/kwh           0.20       0.50       2.50
Diesel                                                             1.10
Gasoline                                                           1.60
Coal                                                               1.30
Transportation
Road                                                               1.20
Rail                                                              0.90
Machinery/Equipment 3/
Local equipment                                                     1.40
Foreig.Equipment                                                    1.00
Cement                                                              1.40
Steel                                                               1.90
Earthworks                                                          1.30
Structure                                                           1.10
consumption Conversion Factor 4/                                    1.45
Fertilizer
Urea                         Y/ton            541        802       1.48
Rock Phosph.                 Y/ton            189        308       1.63
DAP                          Y/ton            746      1,186       1.59
Pesticides                     Y/kg             5.7        5.7      1.00
Plastics                       Y/kg               4          4      1.00
Other non-traded inputs                                             0.86
Other imported goods via IC8                                        1.00
other traded inputs via LCB 5/                                  variable
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--
1/ (SCF) - (official rate/shadow rate) - (4.72/5.5) - 0.86
2/ 50% of financial wage * consumption conversion factor.
3/ Imported machiery based on ICB prices and local machinery based on LCB prices.
4/ Weighted average of Economic/Financial prices of wheat, rice and other grains
plus beef, pork, and other animal products in 1989 price levels.
5/ Based on estimated border prices when available, if not take financial
prices as economic prices.



CHINA
FOUTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Rates of Return
Sensitivity Analysis
(IPVY  In unit of Y'OOO)
Base Case               I investment cost I   revenue      I operating cost I
I      .10%S 1           -10%       1      +10%
Activity                          FNPY     EPV       FRR      ERR     FRR       ERR  I  FRR       ERR  I  FRR       ERR I
Crops
o Apple planting                14,526   16,812     27.-6    29.1%    26.7%    28.2%    24.3a    26.7X    26.55    27.9%
Apple rehabilitation a/       94,439  70,225      24.9%    26.65    24.8%    28.8%   20.7%    21.8%    24.05    26.2%
* Citrus production              7,524   11,787     26.9%    38.8%    25.55    31.9%   28.6%    80.1%   25.2%    32.0%
Hong lang orange production   94,892  109,960     26.5%    28.1%   24.0%    26.8%   21.6%    24.4%    28.4%    26.25
Kivw  plantine                22,370   21,628     81.4%    28.8%    80.0%    27.55   28.2%    25.6%    80.7%    28.15
o Too rohabilitation b/        04,078   46,289      28.1%    24.6%    2e.5%    28.15    22.8%    19.8X    26.0%    22.38
o Mulberry and silkworm c/      12,879   15,418     81.8%   38.05    28.7%    82.2%    17.4%    21.9%    15.1s   19.3%
* Bamboo production d/           2,948    8,175     21.9%    23.0%    20.8%    21.8%   17.75    18.8%   20.4%    21.6%
Green houso vogetabloo a/    16,270   22,014      84.6X    41.4%    81.7X    88.1X   29.7%    88.25    82.9%   89.95
Livestock                                                                                                                                    A
Poultry o/                     4,120    8,746     18.1X    17.6%    16.5x    16.9X    4.1%      8.4%    8.9%      8.8X
 Cattle                         6,848   18,560    22.0%    88.0%    20.0%    84.0%    18.0%    80.0%    18.2%   85.05
 Sheep                         4,178   12,179      18.0%    82.0%    18.0%    29.0%   14.8%    28.0%    17.0%   29.0%
Cattlo and cheep               1,890   10,288     14.6X    24.0%    12.6%   21.0X   10.4%    19.0%    12.35   22.0%
Aquaculture
Case fishery                   8,882    2,284     86.8S    26.5%    88.6%   24.0X    18.6X    4.8X    16.6%    6.9%
s Prewn pond improvement         2,818    1,881     22.75    17.6%    19.75    16.25   16.1%    11.45    19.4%    11.7X
Agroprocessing
* Feed mill                      8,008    7,896     20.4%    83.5%    18.8%    81.2%    8.0%    17.0%      5.65    19.45
Cold storage                   1,000      998     16.4X    18.6%    14.6%    14.8%   10.7%   10.75    12.7%   12.86
o Corn proceseing               11,180   7,471      28.1X    28.2%    25.7%   21.0%   19.2%    18.55    22.2%   16.8%
Soyaboon processing           10,953   18,118     22.4X   24.7%   21.05   28.2%   12.1%    14.8%    14.1%   16.8%
Peanut processing              2,926    8,998     28.6X    83.7%   26.2%    81.2%      4.8%     8.85a    8.3%    6.25
Carpet manufacturing           2,806    8,680     26.1%   27.1%   28.1%    26.0%    6.6%        7.6%    8.8%      9.6%
a/ WPys in unit of Y. 
b/ Returns on tea processing Investments, if calculated independent of tea planting and rehabilitation are sensitive
to changes in output prices and production costs but not so when combined.                                                      cr >
cJ Includes mulberry plantitng and silkworm raising                                                                                   X
d/ Includes bamboo planting and rehabilitation.                                                                                    r- F
e/ Includes parent stock, boilers, layers, duck, feed, slaughter and cold store, down jackets.
* Attached as Tables 2 - 11. Other models are available on the project file.



a4mA
FOUR   RURAL  WFEDVt PROJET
APPLE lROCPXTIO2 (now planting)                              (April 1990 constan. prees)   (YWOOD)
With proect
your      1       2      a       4       5      a       7      6       9      10    1i       12      13     14      15      16     17      18
P.ODUCT13  SCALE (outi lted)
Platino re  (ha)                         I,000
Yield an/ho)                            0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  4.E00  9.000  11.00   2.000 U e .000  14.000  16.000  l.O.0   1         6.000  1 6O000  15.000  15 000 1S.000  15000
PrlCo(Y/toft) (/        8aw
RE111111"  1)                               0       0      0       0  3.00  7.200  8.800  0.600  10.400  11,200  12.000  12.000 12.000  12.000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12.000
c"ornt  cs
laveamnt Coat
b11 teas                                     22       0
IrrWe"n eyte b/                             1100      0
Pletine and tending
Let..                                       7J6    240    240    240
prt./p"ot.                                  180    488    488    496
Other                                       440   16      186    11.
Subttel (2I                             2.477    643    6S8    66          0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Operating Cast
Labrw                                                                     465    706    795   1005  1.06   1O!i 005  I. 0     1.008  1.006   1.005   1.OOS  1,008  1,005   1.005
fert./peat.                                                              1.268   1.268  1.258  2,051  2.051  2.061  2.051 2$081  2.053  2.051  2.051  2,051  2.051  2,051
Oto. =h /                                                                  180    180    180    160    180    160    1SO    1S0    100    180    180    160    100    180
Jrcront Iorkig coitul d/                                            924    L2o                                                                                              (2044)
Totol Operating Cast (8)                    0       0      0    924  1.968  2.068   2.178  8,286  8,236  3.236  3.286  5.236   3,236  3.238   3.236   3,236   3.236  2.192
Totes     (4)        5.01                       0       0      0       0    t80    360    440    480    520    460    600    600    60D    600    6N0            600    600    600
TOTAL COST  (5) (2.8.4)                 2,477    043    eU   1.777  2.140  2,448  2.618  8.716   S,756  3,798   3,836  3,e6s  3,036  3.886   3,036    3,836   3.836  2,792
With project net Roeveon  (1-5)             (2.477)   (48S)  (US) (1,77)  1.452  4.752   6,162  56885  6,645  7,406   8,165  8.s5   8.165  0,265  0,16      e 8,61  8,165   9,209
W/O project not reveaue                     1,000   1,000  1.000  1,000  1.000  1.000  1.000  1.000  1,000   1,000  1.000  1,000  1.000  1.000  1,000   1,000   1.000   1,000
naiTe AL REV(r(et)                         (a.477) (1.04) (1,821) C2.777)   452  3.752   8.182  4.88   5,64e5   6,405  7.165   7,165   7.165  7.,65   7.165   7,165  7.165  8,209
Subbbroor'. contribution (806)              743    253    250    88    36
ABC tape leen (701q                       1,784    590    US    597         0
ABC working capitle loan (705)                                     647     84
Totel            (6)                    2,477    843    U3S  1,777    1
oUT SERVICE
Rosasomnt of working capitat o/               0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0    731
ayaant of leon  term Ioono                    0       0      0       0          0  01,6821 81              0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Int t an Io ter lee f/                      104    248    814    8S5    420    420    420    22             )    tO)    (0)    (0)       0)    (0)    (0)       0       0       0
interet en  ng CLpitl S/                      0      0       0      65     7S      7       7      73       W NS73   73   73      7S      7S     73      7       73     73      73
TYOtl               (7)                   104    243    814    44        490    490  2,146  2.146       78      78     73      73      78     73      73      73      73    804
NUT REYOI APr  OE8T SERVICE(roe) h/        (1.104) (1.295) (1,896) (1,712)   187  8,398  8s,e6    3,469  8,599  6,361   7,U1S   7.125   7.t27  7.129  7.10   7,132  7.133  7,603
CaULAT7I P  RETlVlE                        (1.104) (2.402) (3,798) (5,510) (S.348) (1.980) 1,746  5,215  10.812  17.174 24.297 S1.422 36.549 45,677  s2.80   59,939 67.073  74.956
_P~VA*. ~V84E(noainal) __  *()             (t,477) 2.27) (2,177) (8,463)   52  5,-160  7,488   7.406   8,906  10,706  12.575  13,204   .864 1 4,5857313,-285  16.0016.652  20,273
tlET    6.E!(nomie.l) A77t DEBT SUtVICi1   (1.104) (1.429) (1,680) (2.136)    219  4,6"7   5.387  5.260  8.9   10,63S 1U,C02  U,l3.1  S3.791  14.484  15,212  15.076  16.779  1,0.469 
(6n                                                                                                                                                                                   tD i)
FIIR         27.61           es    29.11                FRPV(t 121)    14,525              eWSV  15,612
*/ Avorago farm gete piice of different apple varietioe.
6/ trrigation ntedo and surce. of Irrigation ewoid very from form to fare. The amount r"preoonta approsimto provision for irrigation inaoutoonto.
c/ Irclud_w irrigation 0 & t4 cost. Irrigation neds mould wary from far  to form. Average coot is amud at Y150/hu
4/ Working capital l. oauwad at S0U of operating  st.
el In practice a &Aborromer receivos and repay. working capital lton annual .
f/ tnterest on long term loan is os_umd at tho averg  rate of 1.i, includine service fto.
Interest rate on working capital is calculated at 10.
/ leure  in iperantheo;i rFerot Im of revenue and additional omubborosor contribution for paymant of interoot on ABC loon am ABC loen procedure. do rt odm t capitalizataton of interact.
I/ Inflation ie oau*md at. year 1: 10, year 2: 68, yar Sr315S 5S. AK would provide additional loan to iet any price contingncy. Incremntal reenue in nosinal term
mauld be more than adequate to *ervico thio *dditionl debt.
a,  aud an Yen'pn e&bAroj*ct in  h anal province



o@
PFi RA4L CTrr PROW
C?70.5 PROXtCrIOM                                             (April 1990 coeratot Price)  (Y'000)
with project
pear        1        2       J        4        5         6        7         S        9        to        11       12        13    14-24        25
PRWIW4M SCALE
mm pletif  boo(ow              1.10     1,00   oo           0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0
vlolaitoftu)                              o ooO    O OC0  O.OC0   o.seo    0.eho    1.200    l.SCO        l.SOO     l.SCO    1.200    l.S00    1.S00    1.500      1.500    1.800
Prtee         Vtm      I,oC0
R9     (1)                                        0        0       0      594    1.72      8.486    S..S0    5.670    s,670    5,078    5., 10    5.670    5,670    5.670    S.670
raveotean Csa
NM platings
Labor                                          2489     SD      286      290
Fet.Ipe".                                      234      4i4    S6"      787
cother                                          T6       91      86       so
91ditn1o                                         Be        0       0       0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0
Catructien                                      -         27      0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        *         0         0        0         0
uPie - n                                       168        2       0       0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0
Pbra toeleb6oqupaaat                              7        0       0       0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0
Subtstal M                                1.82       6o1       6    12S          0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
168      8159      414      410       445      40s       59       829       52      1,06      .029    .029
Other                                                                     as       0        on4    1.112    1.8S9 1.82 1.29    1,062               1.229    1,032      1.062    1.062
al    ars                                                                         latl */  0  6  o    o        1        137       17         7       I         137 1o7            137
Totel  ratlng Cast (8)                       0         0      0   1.2SS       .       1, 1,82   1,72    I:    2.004    1.898          1.728    1.695     1.72S     1.728    1.72
Team      (4)        16.66                        0        0       0       9s      265      57       646       986     9ss        m        046       936       986      936       986
TOTAL T05  (5) 2.8.4)                     1.=         S91   6gt   2.404    1.61S    2.094    2.578    2.657    2.9ss    2.7SS    2.574    2.681           2.663    2.663    2.663              i
With projet net reouem  (1-)                 ( W         (0)  (6) (16)             110    1'M2    2.s2    2,61s    271    2.848            2.886    2,6Ss    3.007    3,007    s.oo7
VWO projet net rovonue
D    UITAL R    i  (6)                       (1A8)      (M)   (0) (1,0)           110    1.862    2.552    2.e13    2,7         2,848    2,816    2.6839    3,007    3.007    S.007
ubaree.ro etrbutien (m                        9a0        2s7    26S       S7        0
C tero ln fw B) CM                             92        8      61s      766        0
-C working cap eal n (7I  T                      0         0      0      467        0
TOl             (7)                       1.,         n      876   1.790         0
Rapaen ofe orl,lng eitol b/                     0        0       0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0
Rapw  ea  long t    lo                               0       0       0        0              0    1,80     1.856        0         0         0        0         0        0         0
lr"onlong'tore leone p/                         6       149    22S      807      854       184      884       1w8 7)                                                     (0)       0)
latorootec  wkCng Caital d/                              0       0       47       47        47       47        47       87        , 77)              47         7        47        7
Total            (C)                         as       149    2i       854      401       401    1.798     1.798        47       47        4?       47        47        47       47
NET FENSE  APTl OMT SWVI   (reel) */            (8)    (21)   ()    (7)    (196)   1,071    1,S10    1,661    2.701    2.815    2.829    2.814    2.9sa                2.984    2.90115
LATIWET NU                                      (8)    (2c2)  (5MM )   (1,a 7)  (1.)        (462)     646    2.480    t.1,1    7,496    10.025   12,889    15.822    16.806   21.n        j ,
114C AL  MOtE (.Ltl) f/   (ft)               (1.S26)    (90) (1.041)  (2.6s5)      148    1,074    $.685    4,266    4.847    8,917    4.486    5,2S3    5.818    60.10          6.415       tX
NET     UE(al) AFPt2 0DEBT 8Cl                 (C6)    (280)   (8    (921)    (257)   1,478          192    2,478    4.800    s.e70    4,489    5.188         5,772     6,068    6.68       LA I_-
(7.9-8)                                                                                                                                                                                   to
FM          t # 2.96                  u        8.8.6         SfPV(ot 1)          7.524      B@V    11.7S7
*/ 0ork)ng capital la ogwuod at 61 of s0eretting cat.
b/ In pratite, a eubborreer rveeves an4 repa"e worting capitol teen annually.
c/ nabreot on long bt loon la Dogwoad at the evoro&  rate of IS, including Dervico foe.
d/ Intoret Peate on corking capitol io calculated et I 
of Pir.  in poranthelo reoresot edditiontl eubberreser eroteibution fwr payant of interoat on AC lean ro ABC loan proce4ure. do rnt admet capitalization co inteoret. If nca2m2y.
Aeg II orent _bort tere lean to meot t_oerory cast floe  deficits.
t/ Inletion is a_eamd at. year 1 101, yoar 2: 66. year 8-25: 5t.
a. bead am WingdW canty osbpreject in Jlizpi Province.



FOLSITh RRAL CREDr7 PROJECT
TEA REHAB8ILITATION4(4r  IQ190 --t-rt .r0                                           u   '00
PrOojct Year
I   2        3        4         5         6          7         8         9         10        11        12        I1         4         15
PRWUTION SCALE
Prunn.ngt arms (ha)                            2.816      4,694   4,664    4,694     4.694      4,694     4,644     4.694     4,664      4,694     4,694     4.664      4 fq4     4 l'14    4.694
FreeS leaf product,o..  (ton)                     0     2.5SU    8.449   16.3.34   24.764    32.388    35.205    35,205    35.205    35,205    35.205    35,205   3~7'! , 2I'('          32,205.
Reju,oftetion aroo (ha)                           1706      293     263      263      2623        293       293       263        293       263       293       293        297 '.              293
Frees  leaf product.... (ton)0                             0     226       603     1206      2,016     2.34 2354       2.354     2,354 2.354 2.345!A4 2.354 ~.'               
Replecement plant'.n  arms (ha)                   52        Bo0      8       S80       880        am0       880       880        880       S80       880       88         BBC,      BP"       850
Fresh loaf production (ton)                       0       676   2,057    3,771     6.431      6.657     7.071     7,071     7,071      7.071     7,071     7,071      '.071    71.071     7.071
REVS".  (Y1.600/ton)    (1)                           0     4.152  13.841   26.760    40.602    53,058    57.672    67.672    57.672    57,672    57.672    57.6572   ','.672    57.077    57.672
lnveateent Coot
Prun.ngq                                     11.481    14.692   4,845        0
Re  ,aenot.on                                   942     1.067     306        0
Rsplaceoent plantingo                         5.190     4.267   1,427        0
Subtotal (2)                                 15,612    20,276   6,578        0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         ")        0
Operating Coot
Labor e/                                          0         0   3.254    7.363    10,317    12,086    12.526    12.526    12.626    12.526    12.626    12,526    12,626    12,575I   12.526
Fort.(pet  h                                      0         0   2,106    6.047     6.575      6.866     6,674     6.874     6,874      6.874     6,874     6,874      5,874     6.874     6,874
0th*;r c/m                                        0         0     218      526       729        871       924       624        924       924       924       924        924       974        924
Incremental working capital d/                     (0)    1.395   1,839    1,171         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0    (4,405)
Total Operating Coot  (3)                      (0)    1,595,  7,410   14.207    17.620    19,94      2052 20.324    20,324    20 ,324    20 ,324    20.324    20.32A7034    20,.3X$    15.919
Tease     (4)        0. 05                          0         0       0        0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0                    0
TOTAL COST   (5)   (2.3.4)                 16,612    21,671  13.998   14.107    17,620    19,946    20.324    20.324    20.324    20.324    20.324    20,324    20.324    75,.24    15. Q19
With project not rarone..   (1-5)               (15.612)  (17,516)   (156)  12,653    22.981    33.213    32,348    37,348    37,348    37.3so    37.348    37.340   717,345    27 34f;  41 753
W/o Project net rerenue                           4.838     7.227   7.227    7,227     7.227      7.227     7.227     7.227      7,227     7,227     7,227      7.227     7.227     7,20?      7.227
INCREME?AL RE-VBt   (8)                         (19.948)  (24,745) (7,363)   5.426    15.765    25.987    30,121    30.121    30,121    30.121    30,121    30.122    30.121    317X. .1    30.121
FPW4NCX,
Subb.e.rovoras contribution (305                4,684     6,301   2.525      351         0
ABC tore  los. (705)                           10,926    14.195   4.606        0         0
ABC vorkng capital loon (700)                      (0)      977   1,287      820         0
Total            (7)                         15.612    21,671   8.417    1,171         0
0DM SERVICE
R"epay.t of working capital o/                      0         0       0        0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0      3.084
Repayment of ln to-  re loans.                      0         0       0        0     6,809      9.667    11.061         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0
Interest on long tore loos.  1/                  68m      2,165   3.291    3,567     3.,587    2,510      1.326         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Intoroot on Working Capitol 6/                      0        96     226      306       308        306       306       306       S06        306       308       308        308       308       306
Total              (8)                          656     2,261   3,517    5.676    12.68S    12.68S    12.685        300        306       306       308        306       306       308      3,392
NET REVE4E AFTER DEST SERVICE (real) h/          (4,991)   (7,100) (5,258)   3,288      6,070    16.763    21,337    26,918    2.928V   26,637    2.9 f46    26,954    29.962    26.970    28.532
CUMULATIVE NET REVD4E                            (4.9601)  (12.091)(15,549) (12.091)   (6.021)   10,741    32,076    61,996    61,924   121,881   161,807   181.761   211.723   241,692   270.:224 
154CFtE54AL REVYNLE (nao-onl) 1,/  (9)          (19,948)  (27.220) (8.771)   6.789   20.635    35.738    43,496    45.671    47,954    50.352    52.870    55.513    53.269    6I.203    64.263           1(0 l4
NET REVENUE (nominial) AFrTU DEBTr SERVICE       (4,96 1)   (7,610) (3,671)   4,084    7,960    25.053    30.811    45,362    47,646    60,044    52,581    55.205    57,980    6c.895    60,871           J3.,g.f
FR     26.15                      ERR      24 66           FNPV(vt 121)        64.073       ENPV    45,268
s.f Include& 127 mentdsy. tending and 300 eandaya harveating(Y5laanday) per ha at futll derolopeent.
hi Include. 623 kg of coeKound fertilIizer end 935 kg9 area per he at fullI derelopment.
cl Includes Y45 for tosts and equip.sntt per ha at full devolopeent.
d/Working capitol is aaeued at 255 of operstintg coot.
sfIn practice a oubbo-rover roceiose on  repyas working capitol loon onnuolly.
f/intoreat on long term loon is aeauaed at the ereroge rate of 125, including aervice foees.
/Into,ot ret. oh Working capitol ia calculated et 108.
F/ iguree in peon~th.eie represent additional eubborrower contribution for payeent of interest on AKC loan as ABC loon procedures do not ado,t cap.tel;zation of ,nteoret. In sdJ.t,on.
this eseunt includes loee of net income (without project) by eubborromore during the gestation period.
i/Inflation is assumed at, year 1: 10t, yser 2: 8t. year 3-15: St.
O. Sas"d on Jigengul tee owbpoJects.



FOURTH RURAL CtEDIT PROJECT
b9.AJB'V AND SILKWU M PRiDUCTION                                   (Ar. I 1990 co,,stlAt prico")  (W'OD0)
With project
it".                                prico  VI thut
It                         pvtce~~~(Y   Y;j.tl e ea l    2        a        4         5        6         r7                 9        10       IJ        12       13        Id      15
unit         (Y)  Project                         3                                                                  0     -I          12        1         4      I
PRi iU  SCALE
Mulberry arew,         Pu                            15,000
ltulbarry yolld        ton/am       260         0      0.64   1.618   2.10      2.10      2.10     2.10      2.10     2.10      2.10     2.10      1.84      1 34     1 34      1.34    1.34
cocoa"                 ton        10.600        0       675  1.a50   I,.       1.606    1,666    1.S68    1,688    2.10    1.666    1.688    1.060 3.06:              .0       3,080  1,060
ReEfB      (1)                                         10,431 20,862  26,076   Z%,07    26,076   26,076   26,078   26,078   26,078   26,078   16.674    16,674   16.674    16.674  16,674
COs.
Inveeteot Coat
Sgd pleat                                              1,900      0       0                                                                                                                0
Fare to tc                                               61       0       0                                                        el
Irreg.ati  eyot.e                                    2.206       0       0                                                                        2.205                                 SSl
Equlpeet for a. ikor                                   8 ,060     0       0                                                                                                                0
VEllet       *;                                          165     00       0                                                       165                                                     (21)
SoryIce.                                                 896      0       0                                                                                                                0
Subtetl C2)                                        11,760      0        0        0         0        0         0        0       226        0    2.205          0        0         0 (2,68)
Oprain  Coat
ior berryp 1.81eg                                     5.775  4,440      11s*    55600    5.66    5,560     5,660  6*560       75,80    5,580    5.560      .56      5.580    S.5SP)  5580
LaO Nd   aganosnt                                  2,280  1,5    1,15M   1,73         1,735     1,I      1,785     1.7855      1,5    1.755    1,308    1.305    1,30S    1,305  1.305
Peartli ger Apesticide                               5,185  2,976    3,510    8,510    3,510    3,510    3,510    8,510    3,610    3.3510    2.635    2.635    2.835    2,63   2.6m5
Other                                                  360   $S S3 85            85        815      815      315       815       315        15      315       315      315       315    315
lkuon prodc                                           S,6S0  11,017   18, tt    13,771   18,771    13.771   138,l    13.771   13,771    13.771    6,613   86813    8.83    e.813   8.613
Fter.let                                              8,854  7,9 07t   9,4    9,804    9 ,64    9,884    9,684    9 684    9 ,84    9 8a4    6,826    6,326          6 326    6 326  6,326
Labor a"d  _ 0neamet                                   ,660  2 ,70   84 10     8,450   38450    8.450    3,480    3450    S45,30    3,450    2,208    2.20g    2.205    2.208  2.208
Other                                                  175    849       467      487       487      437       437      437       437      437       279       272      272~      279    279
Zttree~fl o owi,ng Capitol of                         2.275    629        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0  (3.104)
Total Opereting Cont  (8)                          13,66  16,298   19,851   19,351   19,351   19,351   19,851   19.851   19,351   19,351    14.393    14.39?   14,322    14.393  11.290
'trea   (4)             1                                 429    659   1.078    1,075    1,073      1,.75    1,073      1.073    1,078    1.073       687      6S7       687       687    6B7       La
TOTAL COS    (1)  (2.5.4)                          25.747  17,152  20,424   20,424   20,424   20,424   20,424   20,424   20.650   20.424    17.265   1S.080   15.010 "1.080  9.259
No R"enu (1-5)                                    (13.16)  .710              5.364    5,654    s.ss  SN.654    5,654    5,65  ,42e    6,654      (6ll)   1.594    1.594    1,594  7.as8
IIUTAL RFbOE   (6)                                    (15.816)  8.710   5.654    5,s64    s,64    5,654    5,654    5.654    5,428    5.654          (611)   1.594    1,594      1.594  7.365
PZMVCDG
Subberreaer'e Contribution (868                       4,987    249        0        0         0
ABC torer loan, (706                                 10.044      0        0        0         0
ABC working capi ta loan (70)                         1.592    e60        0        0         0
ToUal           (7)                                16.624    a29        0        0         0
0Etf SERVICE
Repy.n Oef n*tin Ca.Iefli                                0       0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0  2,173
Repe yont of leap torn lne                               0       0   2,977    8,334    S.734          0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0       0
Interest on wloe tor- leanec                            60S  1.205   1205        848       440                  0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0      0
Intoreet oa Wori4ng Celtel d/                           19    217       217      217       217      217       217      217       217      217       217      217       227       217    217
Totl              (8)                                 762  1,428   4,899    4,a39      4.99       217       217       217      217       217      21?       217      217       217  2.390
OlET REE AFTRt CWT SEVICE (mel)                          566   .171    1.9a1    2.12       2,295    5.496    8.650     s,510    5,292    5,524       (735)   1,476     1.482     1,487  s,265 95
CsAAIIVME lRET     e   Se                                      8,716    5,587    7.794   10,088   15,584   21,087   26.597   31.69   37.412   36,678    38.154   39,653         42.    47.387 i
DRfAL RV E (nom;inl) e   (9)                         (186) 4.061    6,76    7,062    7,406    7,s    6.14              8,572    6,642    9,451    (1,072)   2,937    3,084    3.23e 15,7 7
NeU FEVOEnoEinal) AFrR DET SEVICE                        S4   3,486   2,317    2.658    8.006    7,556    7,947    8,s35        8,424    9,233   (1,290)   2.720    2.867    3,2  13sS7            w
FRR          l.1111 G1M                        35.0J        RV(at 1215)        12,379      88'V   15,416
w/ Working capitel is *enuend at 202 of operatine cOt.
bl In proetice a oubborrmoer receives end repay. eorking capital o" annual ly.
c; Interet on long tore 'i  *_nuwod at the ever    rot. of 13. including aervice f*e.
d/ latereot rate on working capital io calelat  at 105.
/ Inflation in oued  ts year 1: 106, yeor 2- 6S. year 3-15;. 5U. AKc would provide additional ken to weet any price contingency. Incremental revenue in noninal tnre.
Could be Xuwe than adequte to service thin additional dobt.
a.OeD*  on Miusblm prefecture eubprojeet in jiinnsi prowince.



oamn
FOUTH RURAL cREDIT PR0JBT
8AHBl  PLMA4TI AND RFAILITATION                                (April 1990 o-otr-t pr-.s)  (Y0ooo)
- -                            {ai ~~~~~~~~,tl,poject
It  "*, 1        2       s        4         6         8         7         a         9        10        11        12       s3        l4         1S
PRODUCTION SCALE (eoti0oted)
is"oplonttoe rea(ha)                            800       200    400         0        0          0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
robird4tinso0.000                                     0.000   0.000    1.000    2.000      4.000    6.000     7.000 o    .000    9.000    10 o0o    10.000    10 000   IC 000    10 000
R hXb; I itation, *,s(ke)                       300       SCO    400o        o         o        O         o         O         O         O         o         O         0         0         o
Yi.ld(tn/hs)                                1 sco     2.000   3.000    4.000    s.000      6.000    7.000     6.000     9.000   10.000    10.O0O    l0.000    10 OCt   If :00   10 000
Rt?e    ( 0/ton)    (1)                           651       594    see       09      1.844     t.968    2,716     3,472     4,144     4.704     5,160    5s468      S, 600     600      stizo
COS. S
Ineatmot Cot
l4o  ptiny                                        2a5       402     614      8ss        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
it   I 1; ZiZ1                                    239       8       6          0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
yr. aeIe                                          819         0       0        0        0         0         0         0       819         0         0         0         0         0       (40)
Sbtotel (2)                                   843       770   1.196      S9t        0          0        0         0 o     SI          0         0         0         0         0       (40)
Oper,t, Coat
lisa pl.ntiog
LAbor                                                                              177        19        m        248       269       2S4       299       8o0       315       31S       315
Fort. A pot.                                                                         so       67        e7         7        07        95       105       113       11$       11s       115
otter                                                                               144      150       IO         i3O      150       19        166      I6O       160      S1W        160
Nehebil itetion
Labor                                                                     209      224       2S9       254       269       284       299       209       815       815       315       315
Fort. & P..t.                                                             91        9         109      1ts       113       115       115       115       115       115       118       115
Other                                                                    3I9        1t68      1        160       160       18O       100       1oo       180       SO0       IS0      I1o
V/0 project ores                                126        72       0
Incromeetel sotiog cptel */                        0         0      92      89        12         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       (9
To.l Oporatioe Cot   (8)                      12         72      92      547       918       962    1.007      1.047     1.088    1.180     1,176     1,218     1,239     1.219     1.1?!
r  .e b/  (4)         16.A8                       107        91t    97       148      22         2        448       573       684       776       055       906       924       924       92
TWAL CMST  (5) (2*8+4)                      1.076       940   1,885    1.098     1.18      1,290     1.4f5     1.620    2.066    1.97      2.026     2.110    2,143      2.343     2.011
Witt project rt reveu  (1-5)                     (425)    (546)  (79)    (197)         200       698     1.261     1.662    2.066     2.797     8.162  s .369       S.47      3.457     3.889                w
W/o project Mt reY..e 0/                          446       4       44       446       446       446      446        "        446       446       446       446       4         446       446
IIRnWAL REVe   (6)                               (871)    (79) 0.2)    (648)    (26)            252       Si     1.406     1.612     2.51      2. 70     2.928     3.011     3.011     3.021
SbbeOrra   contributeion (SON)                   2SS       251    8eb       146        4
AK    rlam (70S)                                 a0 "  te          8s7      279        0
A8C working es;ptl to" (8                          0         0      64       62 
To t.           (7)                            4s       770   1.266      467        12
tST SOW
RIepl .ag n*of   hoog *08l1 d/                    0         0       0        0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       18U
W rosootf lOogtO.r5iosn                           0         0       0        0        0         0         0        6so      74S       Om          0         0         0         0         0
Interet a% lt      tI term lUas e                as/                       2S 10  1e  m  260  269       269       269       190       1oo         0         0         0         0         0
Interestanorkgeapital f/                          0         0       6       18        18       13        18        1s        is        13 U3               13S            13   U         Ut
7o11M             (a)                          65       IC0    192      2                  262       2a2       947       9?        947        is        13        1          13      14?
HET 596* AFT   OM  SOV7     (roel) a/             (614)    (18)   (CM)    (468)    (448)          47      620       781      1,017    1.704     2.89,     2.916     8,004     8.006     2.942
GD9LATIV  _LTS                                    (64)    (250)   (511)  (1.086)   (SA4M)   (1.488)       (813)     (UM       414    2.769      5.46?     8.384    11.386    14.398    17.881 1
1 AL RE                (n iol) h/ (9)            (871)    (872) (1,477)    (6m        (all)     846     1.177     2.12    2,666e    s.9e        4.749     5.88?7    S.26      6.117     6.428
NOT RBSWVS6nolil) A   e0T OM   S90                (64)    (28    (1)   (86)           (681)      64       896      1.164    1,619     2.963     4.717 S .875        5.614     6,18s    6.276 F
(7.9-8)                                                                                                                                                                                               w.
FR           21.91            oN       25.08         RFV(ot 12)            2.9,6      OmY     S.178
s/  ert.rio  cap"itol Is seae 5* 206 of Opera*ting o.
b/ IUdes Oslo. o.0: ttlS, apl       ro redoct  6 ts*. 6.86  forrot to,: Ms.
c/ Witht t projoct, the lend for sam ploetioo is seed to arom eaev sOd potato ehigh Girvs an Overswe  hot rvewo0 of 8800/sO.
4.  pract    a ebbotr           recei;V0 tnd rePs. worklg catotel lo  aowlt 1,
0/ otoreot oo looe term to" Il Msowoo  0 * tho bvrag rat, of IS. ltcludlig "IrOice  .o
f/  tlotrot 'ate on wobig captiol is calculated et ITT
peot   rothoes ropro t sdd;itieoe  .wbbtorwre.r cg*rtibutleo for Ucs  oy* Of interest o 480 loAM   sod logo of refoveoe chlc othtelo;se meld be rceived by m,bborroer wittut Project.
n nseaweed at. _poo er 1: 106        e pr 2: 85. yeor 8-15: S5. ABC Iwod proaido odditienol loon to sot op Price contingency. I,crotentol roveowe in  ninel torm aould be sore
Vetw: In beb0eo prode"tie. toc' hical paraeters per walt Sre" och so nuer of _op. nw0*or of lIter de sod quentity of fortilgor" would very depending upro the slope and Quality
of lIed. Is 4   abeo sodol, AB0C heo saeued fst formors sil  elspt  ono aoepo  tpe busk(i.e. 1,200  Itplse  perh) thugh VDr*t;cr,lly Ihr,    e eog plor bue(or 3.000 eStpllos per he)
are Possible. Yields would very free 7.8 tao.t4.20 tone of bamboo per he dogenins upon 4. nughor Of opin"logsplane   n ofe1rtilier oplcotlose.          maOsot. therefre. prepore
ae.-01-cafts aooldie of aubooj"octo to ittoin optiotsl rae o   return. Lacel tocolebi buorg.. weuld i.pou dote; led gsidol so" to former. indiestng diffornt production pcoibMlt le,
oed $#*Wt roqwleent. PertMlor opmlicotlen woud veor by fo, .ensd  e"t be remegode   by technidca  busreos. If b_0*oo is plooted eon 0Id0o l0. d, the rate, of fote" souldbo hicher a2tM.
O bdW en ceoso  eafst borojeot  n              doo province.



FllUTH TiL OtEDrT PR0JBT
CATrLE RtASDI                                                        (APr  1 1990 coort ,t p.1co)    (Y'O00)
Iwo                                                                             With Project
Yo0r         1        2      _           4        a        t                  8         o9      1        11        12       13        14       1s
___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -  --^- -  -----    ---------------- -  -
Production Scale
cettle (head1a/                             8800    7,80       9.068    9 407   ItSte1    i 1828    16,100   is,963   20.9"1    22.518   22,518   22.516    22,518    22.518   22,518
"-|*I  (h    ,;/                           13,426   10706   11,62S   12.071   14.470   16.697   19.621   12,217   12.595   13.544   13,544   13,544   13 544   13 544   13.5
RMoeave                                       9,667   10.171   10,615   11,79    13.994   16.469   19.06   25.669   268.27   29.824   29.324   29,324   29,324   29 s24   29.324
Coet
I4,4wMt Cast
Cattle P s                                  6,000
Shelter                                       824        0
Ibac%$Orj                                   2,574        0
Peace                                       1,096        0
Subtobal                                   1o.994        0
oe..en  Coet                                  S.760    4,575    5,261    6,27    7,32o    s,77    10.464   12,724    14,104   1u863a   1S.680    133 25. 633    150IS80          5.683
rM_mnol Wart g Capital d/                              897       48       483                                                                                                      0
Toutl Deorin  Coe                           5,760    4,972    S.604    6.710    70          .77    10,404   12,724   14,104   18,628   15.63    15,.33    WO.N3   15.833   15,63a
Teas    8.02                                    44       69        541      S9       700       623      95    1,20       1,841    1,466    1.466    1,486      14W6    1.46       1,466
Total Cos                                   15.30    6,460    6,148    7.29e    0,029    9,601   11.469   14,017   15,44    17,299   17.2ce   17,29    17.29    17.299   17.299
With Project at  Rawenue                     (5,51n)   4,601    4,670    4.499    5,964    6.669    6,047   11,662    11,1   12.025   12.025   12,025    2,025   12.025   12.025
VW/ PrOj  "A Rewee                            8,297    2,6       8,6W     4,000    4,62      5,269    6,043    s.2       7,674    7.807    7.e07    7.007    7.607    7.807    7,807
I1NCFNAL RE        (reel)                    (6,66)   2.1l        962       49e    1,82?    1.800    2,005    s.660    8,707    4.216    4.2*8    4.218    4.215    4.210    4,216
Swbbere la conrIbutton (S8                  8.296       i19      1ea      145        0         0
ABC LT LMN am                 7 m          0~27    20   80         0             0
ME Vobrlag Cw&isl Ltb (70)           '- O                       240   s             0         0 
Teoal                                      10.99      397       84U       43        0         0
Dtt Serwice
Rwieeeen of WertIn Capital                                                                                                                                                       856
aet ef Long To rel,e                                                                                1,610    1.60      2,020    2,262
Lot"=ee an Lea, Term LMa.  e                  462      92        9261     92       928       92       38       78        814      271
Imtoreeo cao mwgeitalf/l                        0       23       62        66       66        as       a6       66            86  66        66        6     6       86        8    o6
Totl                              *          462       961      e75    1,009    1,009    1,09    2,619    2,619    2,619    2.619           as       so        a6       ee       92
1t ay -     -e otter  ebt sertice (reel)      1,663    1.606       483       79      867       666      191    1,662    2,062    2,651    4,169    4,172    4.174    4.176    a,m7
Cumulative Ramute                             1.68     ,S30    5,601t      ,77    4,444    8.810    8,801    7,?8    9,895   12.046   16.216   20,367   24,561   26,77   a2,514
Incrommtl Ro tme (esaIml) 6/                 (.9069)   2,407    1,170       623    1.7SI    2,200    2,898    8,893    5.996    7,621    7,404    7.774    8,163    e5           6 ,t99
MWt Raw. (nei.l) after Dbt Swita              1,668    1,6i       as         96      742    1,191       275    2,77      B.=8    4,462    7.86    7,eso    6,077    8.485    8.0s7
WRt       22.0 NSt      wvt  sI
ER        60.62t        WV          18,860                                                                                                               l
o oeed on the herd projet ion  tith on locrrt dairy cm of 2,860 heds.
b/ t1t produecion atorti  ,frJ 4'   (2g00kohead) with the  oeth prodction i yr.7(400ged) and dciigthereafte.
a/ An_ual cat $*coudee    i r rugland  eagemat cort.
d/ WWrWtim  cPitl Ie _amd  aet an OF operting at.
0t Itereste onm iong terloe  da aemawd at the evo"clig  rvice e
f/IZnteretrate onm eswI*O capital le calculated atk
at Infltion te sosusd at yr.11 1M. Tr.21 as, yr.-15: go.
e foed on the o_ rbst dairy cidel _ler baiser cita located In Welunbeir. Lwnr Ibhplis.



a4DtA
POVARTL AL C00ZT P8RJOT
Sw  RAISDlC                                                            (A,ifl 1900 co.,te,t po. c*)   (Y'000)
it.                                                                               with Projoct
Vnee         1         2        S         4         s        6         7         8        9        10        1i        12       13        14        15
Production Scale
op d(ho*Od)  /                               51,56    59,979   8S.575  101.8t1   105.657  105.196   103,487   95.070   07,1I6    80,201   60,201   0o,201   80,201   e0.201    S0.201
Wool (tn) b/                                    187      220       281       290      291       265       245       224      206       189      lg        189      1s9       189       189
Revenu  C/                                      S,80S    8,5m7   11,768   15.001 1O,290   16.s     5    15, 747   14,549    13,S57    12.282        0         0         0         0         0
Cot
Itveetawt Cosot
Sheep Ptprchoe,                               2,025    SB.2S    1,800
Cmotrwc tion                                    882    1,768       BS2
obchinery                                       60M      975       871
Pobdde. Plt ;tion                               24e      240       248
M6W                                             200
Subtoal                                       3.959    6.811   3S,S3
4
Opertaing Coot  dt                              s,96     5.775    7,037    7,908    8,205    8,017    7.50O         6,925    6.361     5,849    S,849     5,849    5,84u    5,849       5,849
Incr eWPOse    WOreIng CapitI */                         97        6a1       438      151                                                                                            (2,1I2
Total Operating Coot                          S.9o      6,6s 2    7.06a    8.6       6,5r    0.017    7,500    6,925    6,861    5,727    3,777    3,727    3.7             8.7       3,7M2
Txo.   5.0s                                       294      429       8S0       780      814    es 707                727      6S         614       614      614       614       814       614
Total eCoto                                   8.21S    18.922    11,5W6    9.086    9,171    0,050      8,28e    7,653    7,029    4,341    4,S41        4.341    4,841    4.341    4,341
With Projet not Revenu                         (2.50)  (547)         212    5.916    7.119    7,85        7,460    6,097     6.328     7,041    7,941      7,941    7.941     7,041     7.941
W/o Project "at Revm                            2,007    2.028     2,287    2.480    2.720    5,031    8,711    5,974    4.360         4,80      4,8O    4,CD0    4,000    4,800        4,000
114M4IAL NE8E  (rool)                          (4.8)n  (7,370)  (2.0")    3,488       4,899     4,774    8,749    2,925      1.959     8,142    5,142    5,142   3a142    3.142    3.142
Subborrewor'e contribution (S3)               1.188    2 315     179         10s       45         0
ABC LT Le"  70                                2,771     4.78    2.310          0        0         0
AKC VwoIng Capital Loon (705)                     0       m        442       80D      106         0
Total                                        s,99    7.718    3.931         430       %51        0                                                                                                 4
Ot Service
Rfpawwt of Working Capital                                                                                                                                                            1,486
ant of Long Tere Loom                                                                2,919    3, 269     .661
Inreot O  ow Lone To,. Lon  f/                  106      019    1.045    1,.=1       1,182      8s2       489
Interest ow Woaing Capital o/                     0       64       le0      1i8        149      149       149       149      149       149       149       149       149      149       149
Total                                          16e       6s2    15II    1.30    4,249    4,249    4.249            149       149      149       149       149       149      149     1,634
Nat Revene after Dnbt Servico (rtal)             (545)    (974)      814    2.772    1.270    1,684         86    2,825       1,866    8,053    3,057      3,061     3,065    3.069     2. 376
Cumlatl. Rolta                                   (545)  (1,519).  (1,204)   1.367    2,e38    4,522    S,828    S.1ES    10,019   13,072    16,129    19.190   22,255   25,324   27,699
------------ L .~~~~~~~~-;--------------------
Inremantal Rovenue (nominal)  ;/              (4.337)  (0,107)  (2,407)   4,S44    5,762    6.505        5,418     4.4S1    8,119     5,252    5,S1S       5,790    6,080    6.384     6,7D70
Nwt Rev (ne1iwal) after Debt Service             (545)  (1.071)      875    8,467    1,664    2,316       1.164    4.283    2,971      5,103    S,S66      s.642    5.931    6,235      5,069
RR          ein         WV            4.179
Rso         an20        tWV          12.179
       -------      ----------------    ------    ---        ------------------------------------ ---
a/ The herd projection lo booed on the incrowntal purete  *of shoep af 40.000 be"d an  breading thep  of 300 heads.                                                                               Lt
b/ Wool production without project it oewud to be 3,0kg/hood.
Wool production with project i- *oewood to ineroseo from S k to the  teimue of S.6kg/head from yr.4 onward.
e/ Woo price is  eegad at Y12/kg from mature shop end 78/kg Vrof  lamb.
d/ nu  prdction coot incltdes 72/heed of raneo  .anegoeet cost.
*/ Workinag rapitel lomn it weouad at 501 of operating cost.
*/ InterEst on lon  tere loan iw sesumd at the average raet of 12t.
/ Interest n workitn  capitel io calculated wt 100.
,/ Inflation is auwad at yr 1: 10, yr.2- BS. and yrS-IS: 55.
Nat.t Wool pr;ces in China io controlled end the financial prices _sumd in the model reflects the temporary deprosed wool prices.
In the event that centrol ld pricee would inereae  by 10 cloer to the previous financial prices, fRR will increase to 315.
Beed on Sheep raising i' Znlantun Stat fare, on wited-rangeltnd In t1ulufnbeir, Inner Mtngolia.



FTmrH tAL C8DrT POJECT
RAW4 POND IRO9E                                                           (April 1990 cstueAt porces)  (Y'OOO)
with project
itee                                        vi ths.ut
I  mit             pe;ojctYeer1          2        a        4         5        a         7                  9        1        11        12        13       14      15
Pr1014 SCAE
Are.                   au                  2t900    2.714  2.714   2.714    2.714    2,714    2.714         2,714    2,714    2,714    2,714    2,714    2.714       2.714    2.714  2.714
Yield                 tS                    0.170    0.165  0.200   0.200    0.200    0.200    0.230    0.200    0.200    0.200    0.000    0.200    0 200    0.200    0.200  0.200
Price                  V/Son               18,000   21,000 21 0o0   21.000   21,000   21,000   21,000   21.000   21.000   21,000   21,000    21,000   21,000   21,000   21.000 21.000
Production e/ton                              4935      502    548      543      548       543      543       543      543       543        0       543       543      543       so3    543
REDE  (1)                                     8,074   10.544  11,8"9  11.39   11,899    11,899    11.9       11.899    11,9   11.899          0   11.399    11.399    11.399    11,399  11.599
Case
Inv- It et Cost b/
Constructioso                                         8.5a0      0        01                                                                                                            (on)
Squlpaset                                            11:1101     0        0                                                     ,0(1)
Osreicee                                                1904     0        0
Ovorhoed Of  veornast                                    4       0        0
Sbtoftl (2)                                         8.059      0        0        0         0        0         0        0    1.30t         0         0         0        0         0  (1,052)
Sporetin  Cost
Prau eV                                       60        609    609 so6           609       an009 69            0       609       609      s9        609       609      609       00e    6we
POd                                         4,222    4.260  4,s596    4.006    4.eos    4,60e    4.00       4,606    4x.60     4.606    4.606    4.606    4.0        4.606     4,.06   4.606
wmpptwwo t                974      $7      W4       W4       574      374       874      574       874       874      374       874      374       374       374    374
Fuel                                          S76    1,072  1,072   1.0        1.072    1,072    1.072      1,02      1,072    1.072    1,072    1.072    1.072    1.072    1,072  1,072
blelnnoc                                      197      275    275       275      275       275      275       275      275       275      275       275       275      276       275    275
Isle. cost                                     09       105    114      114      114       114      114       114       114      114        0       114       114       114      114    114
IfCresemtaI gettIna ceupel  c/                          329    177        0                                                                                                              (507)
Total Operatine Cost (8)                  6,27    7,01S  7,217   7,062    7.062    7,052    7,062    7.052    7,052    7.052    6.98s           7,052    7.052    7,052    7,062   6.545
Taees  (4)            1oo                       6sW     1,04  1.140    1.140    1.140    1.140    1,140    1.140    1.140    1.140            0    1,140    1,140    1,140    1,140   1.140
TOTAL COS    (5)  M2v84)                  6,914   13,126  S,8S7    0,112    6,192    0,192    0,192    8.192    8,192    9,495    6,936    8.192    0,192           8,192    0,192   6.635
"04 Re   (1-5)                            1,960   (2.504) 8.042   8,207    8.207        .207    3,207    8,207      8,207    1.904   (8,93)   8,207    3.207    3.207    3,207  4,766           W
DvTAL 20UOE   CO)                                      (4.544) 1,02   1.247    1.247    1.247    1.247       1,247    1,247       (55)    (911)   1,247    1,247      1.247    1,247   2,606
Swbbowresor*- contribution (3011)                     1.616    5t         0        0         0
ABC Serm loon (706                                    8,541      0        0        0         0
ABC  orming cepite  lon (70e)                           261    124        0        0         0
Total           (7)                                 5,8l0    177        0        0         0
Pepsin  t ofnwort    capital d/                          0       0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0    358
ft.peysnt of ongterm loen                                 0      0      741      580       929    1,041         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0      0
inSeret a lntt.treltoene./                             212    425      426       886      2        t, 0, (, S                                                  (0)      (0)              (0)
tI Xrwe an Workin Ce teel f/                            2S      Sl      SS        SS        a        St   PS     )      PSlt                         PSS        5        05               1
Totel             (0)                                 286    4F0   1,201    1,201    1.201    1,201          S5       aS        aS       aS        as        SS       3S        as   Sa0
tt  Re  AE AFTER DEST SSWIV   (reel)                     609    625       256      284       S0       374    1.223    1,224        (78)    (932)   1,227    1,26e    1,209    1.280  2,621    l 1
ILATIW HUT REDOUE                                        09   1,488    1,009     1,954    2,284    2,656 s     8e,6    5.104    5,027    4,004    5.322    6,550       7,779    9.009  11.6S    i-'
------------------ - ------------------------------              -- --- --
iliWAL tEVEA (ninot ;t  (9)                        (4,544) 1.190    1,4a2    1.56      1,634    1,715     1,601    1,9         (60)  (1,6i3)   2,169     2i,i299    2,414    2,54   5,96.    0 lj
lEm 1l1tSM(masins) AFt  DET SEINVCE                      609    907      280      858       432      514    1,766      1,656     (1)   (1,556)   2.164    2,203       2,376    2,499   5,597
(7.9-0)
2.73 2                            17.63         FWV<(t 121)         2,813      WeV    1.S1
*/ The project arec )- prone Se typhooe once every ten yeDar. Thte Ndl provedos for this proebability in ye  t Sn both with end witut project sititi*ena. The lam of increoentel production
In th  vent of a tyhon  wul  heefr be  imIll end effocts .- only marginally
b  Ineenteo Is  hePioof p                  "epd f ould be eubject to a cae by ce  anslyeis in vie of the expected decl;in  in world Merket prices of hrimo. Inveetmnts would therefore be
c seed on ped prodciviwty ;rsoenots
c/ t ins ceitl is gem_ed  ntl r,f operting cost.
d/ In precti" c*e euboerromer *ece ye and repays moitng cPp;l tl loen unnuily.
*/ Intefest rate en  leng toes leen isae d _ t the averae rate of 1n, Including service feec.
f/ Itrtrteowoincaialoeicuuitdet 10n.
a  1fleSon oused et year 1:106  year 2' 66 cr 8-1S S5. ABC wosld provide edditioeal loge to meet any price contlnagn;e. Inrceentil revene in n;minal tore
mould  be mrs then adetusSe to service this sdd ;e*el debt
*   ed _    Jisainshse to_;eip, Xinjin county oubproject in Lieoning province.



cm"
iEnM iMMAL CREDrT FROJ 
PSL:iY FEED MI                                                   (Apr; 1990 constant Prica)  (V'0O0)
With preject
It.                                           WithowtP
vaSt       price  projoct Y7r1             2        a        4         5 a                 7                   9        1         11        U         13        14      IS
Feod          e          o              0         0         0      0   9.000    15.000    18.000    18.000    15.000    15.000    15.000    15.000    L8.000    15,000    15.000    15.000  15.000
Ras=1)                                              0         0      0   7.680    12,790   12.7        12.M      12,750    12,780    12,78     12.750    12.U,o   12.75     12.75      2,1750  12.7S0
Cal
lagtm  Cast
i        1620    e/                                         4        i        8                                                                                                                  l
LMOu                                                       462    88         0
Co.gtrustles. of                                         1.466     w6e       0
tiouetb/                                                  '91     574        0                                                                          1.436
0t.ml (3                                              2,4167  1.970       0         0         0         0         0         0       234        0      1.425        0         0         0  (2.489)
OporoI"s  Cost
Woerle                                            0         0         5.661"I    9. 05     9.62       9925 #9 .935    9.926         ,9 985    9.9a5    9.995 9.935    9.5           9.95   9.925
Labor gad mueg -  t                                                0      l110      166       190       166       196       1"        166      190       166       M9        16        196    166
Coalf.oct tri.ii                                  0         0      0       as       no8       189      1as        180  lJ     0       1in       i88      las        130      1t8        i8     1
Mapercost                                         0        0       0       74      1I6        124       124       124       124       12a      124       12        124        124      124    124
t1gP@US  okine eQitl d/                                     0       0    1,247      61          0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0 078)
Td. Feoroting Cent  (a)                         0         0      0    7,40<    11.2264   10.92    10,892   1O.S92    1O.892    10.,92   10.l92    10.l92    10.392    10.,92    10.592  0.814
U...   (4)       i Z                                0         0      0      2a&       us        us        us        us C18 iU8                   u         us        Su        eu        Ust
MiTA COST   (8)   (34)                          0    2.6    1.9I7J    T.0      11.061    11.6    I1,=0    11.000 l10,es          11,204    11.020    12.465    11,0S0    11.090    11.0l 0  6.4t3
MtA Ray.... (14)                                0    (3,967) (1        (O15)       8t9    1.720     1,723     1.730     1.720     1.416    1.720        2i5    1,2        1,720     1.720   6.207
DtITM.AL IE    (6)                                       (2M67  (1,978)    (215)      889     1.70      1,720     1.730     1.720     1,456    1.720       30s    1.72       1.720      1.720   6.107
Smbberowr'"a c,ributlo  (OM                               So9    an        74       249         0
Am two Its"  CM                                         2.077   1.s8        0         0         0
AB as.ti.  c       Ir 9.5 low (7TM)                         0      0      27        Si2         0
to.9.           (7)                                   2,967   1.978    1.2        651         0
ROpggusn of arfino  oeitlof                                 0       0       0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0          0        0   1,456
bopagauit lemgWmrSe.ae                                      0      0        0         0     1.6       1.149     1.357         0         0        0         a         0         0         0       0
Imtere  soe Icte_ *ws.                                    125    SI       418       418       415       292       184         0        0         0         0         0         0         0       0
inte"   am   S         Capital g/                          0       0       87       14        145       145       145       14S       145      14        145       14S       145       145    145
oI .               (0)                                  125    Sm        Soo      SSI    1.,i7      1.817    1.58         145       14        145       145       146       145       145  1.80
NUT 0t_li  APTFtOM  SSWbS     (taet)  /                    (25)   (462      412     1.10t       509       50t       621     1.24     1,#05     1.62       202      1,641     1.645     1.04S   5.57
OtLAIIN M UM                                               (125)  (67       (190)     911     1,419     1.986     2.807     4,2S1     5.590     7,22t    7,480    9,071    10,716    12.365  17,902
tiT4LA  iUE90* (noeloal) 1/  (9)                         (2.907) (2.170)    (26)    1.109     2.2e5     2.365     2,484     2.6t0     2.218    2.07S       499     8,170     S,329     S,495  15,414
NUT 09 (mosimel) AFT7 O   SlT   CE                         (125)  (SSO)   489       1.,79      6S"   7              097    2.462      2,17S     2.730      384      s.0e5  S.18S S.349  11.814
(7   } 
FRRF         2 0.4Si                    Om       S.S 25         Y(.t 121)           S.000      94PV     7.5 sL
,         ad. pr   ioas.  *torg  ro     office and I ;I.;no  querter.
bJ  Ine  to  ere congoyorg, *llo.   forklifts, labors"  owuipntoe gnd mnetell tio.9    charge.
c          c Incl dg o cor.j58tn e .ek Wu,(10   , noygbn  e bo(9,5 *etton need cahe(4.55), veoetble oil cek.(49). berley(Si), fish   a (3.Sd). calciu crboonte(SI.8S), bone mel (1.6t) ond proonx(li).
Cao'b  ^;t          aoagd at  n in year S md 10W I    n year 4
d og    tepil is 1 a *_d at 201t ft opgratInO coaot
*/In pr ac  *  bbore. r*ecolv  end rmme   eorkine capital So  snnue tly.
/ Intret on Song torm Is eneaad at the ever g rae of 1d0. incltdi;n on.icg fno.
I Interoot rate on .orhing capitol Is celcale   at 10* .
b/ figure. ;in perentgesi  repreot edd;itional sabborrowgr contribution for Pe ya  t f i;ntoreet on AsC loen as ABC Seon procogrme do not *dolt capitol  ation of intpoet. If necogerp, ABC *11t
grant edditionl short tore leOn to oubborrover to met torg r ca  flow deficits.
i/ Infato  in t-oas d at year 1: l., ger 2: 8a, year 2-15:  5. AC  od provide additional leon to mot any price contingency. Increoatol rerae In nominal teorg woatd be more thDn
O-  o  graice thin  dditiol dbt.



PtRIW tDAL OIT P0W.T
CORN FROCE1183190                                              (April 190 conant pricso)  (Y'OW)
wphouoWith  t
uint       prism  prejectvYer I              2              4         5         5        7         5                  19        11       12        18        14      15
ISOtOa                              1BO0         0        0       0    1JOD   2.ON        a S       3,100    I          8I    *     0       .10      3        8,300    3.00    3,300  3.300
tlems                   te         8.010         0        0       0    1.248    1.864    2.060    2.000    2.000    2.080    2.D060    2.060    2.06           2.000    2.000    2.060   2.060
Protein mool            ter           MD0        0        0       0      600       400       0        a00       s00      n00       n00       N00       So0       Soo      So0       S00    S00
ewre WI                            8.000         0        0       0      IN        IS6      200       200        0       200       200       200       200      200       200       200    200
COWN aDoom              ton          13          0        0       0      300       400       00       600       600      S00       am0        00       500       So0      500       800    500
Room  (1)                                          0        0       0   0,7    11.2    14.6          14.680        14,660     14,650     14,6   146    4,60     14..650   14.650   14,650  14.650
1ave|.t fea
Land                                                      01     473        0
cnomtrwetlen of                                           *    1,400        0
Uqslpe mt I /                                           2,965  4,446        0                                                                         7,406                               ttI
tlelee                                                     2s 63 o
stat e                                               4.42     .72:                 0        0         0         0        0       263         0    7.400         0         0         0  (51.40S)
01ortl9 Cas
Obterllo 6/                                      0         0      0   4,6        5.412      .15     6.768    6.6        6,7      6,6       6.6       6.7       s        6.7       6,768  S6.76
Labor an  ssgae                                  0         0      0)    23         814      89        89        39       392       3992    2           892       392      892       892    892
tPoter/eaml/01losti.lelt                         0         0      0      904    1.811    1,639      1.6694    1.639     1.639     1.639    1.689     1.689     2,689     1,639    1,639   1.639
1er east                                         0        0       0      160       s40 o  800         80         0o      Soo       8o        80        800      800       80        800    8
locreimnma," aqblfgocoelal C/                              0       0   1,86        465         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0 (1.619)
loCal Operaing Cast  (3)                       0        0       0   6.2    7,732    9,o06    9.06           9,096    9,096     9,096 o.06          9s,o0     9,096    9,096     9,0oe   7.27
tose.  (4)              so                         0         0      0      469       e6t      732         2       732       78S2     7         72                      732 7          72    732
TOtAL CMt   (8)   (4.4)                        0    4.466   8.720   7,22        6 10     9.029    9.69    9.829       9.219   10,091    9.e29    17,236      o,629    9e,52     9,829  2,662
Mt Resin. (14)                                 0   (4,406) (6,720)   1.820     8,402    4.621    4.821    4,21        4,62     4.559    4.21   (2.867)   4 ,521       4,821     4.621  12.0.
816RM.L   Le090  (6)                                    (4,406) (6,723)   1.311    0.402    4.61n     4     .8921    4,62  4,621    4.589    4,321    (2.607)    4.821    4.821     4,821  12.098 0.
Subbr r'o cnt_ibution (0)                              1,8I4 2s016       409       1s3        0
ABC Thoerm l,s (706                                    3,140  4.710        0         0        00
AK working capital lecn (70)                               0      0  O6            8s1        0
totl            (7)                                  4,46l   6.728    1,8ti4     485        0
cmT 1119MMI
epayusnt of orbing capital d/                              0      0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0   1.273
reaynt of long twer  lwon                                 0                0    2,26     2,606     2.916         0                            0         0                  0         0       0
Iterntonln  teoslr Scn/                                  16      5i9     9n42      942      683        60 0S               0         0         0        0         0         0         0       0
tnteret n am   ig Capital f/                              0       0       96       1127       27 177 127                  127       2        1         127       127      12        127    1
ToCtl             (6)                                   6     669  1t,07    8,396          8,96    83,86      127       17       127       127       12        127      127       127   1.401
Ht  WAKE AFTt OII  SBVVCE (reol) */                       (U1) (1.211)   1,804    1,045    2,229    2,S32    4,738    4,787    4,479    4.745    (2.689)   4,752    4,755    4,759  11.442   .j
Is.UTtEW  MT lsg                                          (188) (1.99")    404    1,449    3,670      6.080   10,763   15,800   19,979   24.724   22.065   26,817    31.572   3,831 47.772
______    -    _   ~_______________________________ .____                                                                                                                                 He
tPCOUSIAL  t0O98  (nminal) b/  (9)                      (4,486) (T.401)  1.816    4,244     6,815    6.680      6.962    7,810    7.256    8,0i59   (4540)   0,665    9e,J3         9,796  25,011
#S  R7 OM(no.lnal) ARt2 CM  SEt5a                         (186) (1,)   2,143   1,S0        2.919     d,285    6.8J5    7,18       7.130    7,932    (4,.67)   0,758    9,202    9.b69  24.411   i
2 28.                                           222           R8PV(at 12)         11,10      Bev    7,471
0/ tnclude civil work for factory buildings and eater water treatment, equipment for corn and product proeesino aolh ba bol lore, eterch tanks dehydr,tor, oc
b/ At full dve lepsent, the plant will process 10.000 tne of corn. Caoeity utilization sill be 66 In year S, eo0  in year 4 and IOD1  in year .
c" Working capital is assumed at 256 of operat;ng eot
d/ In Practice a abbwrroer etceiveo and rDpays wrkitng capital loon annual ly.
s/ Interest on laon tarm loan is sceumad et tho aversge rate of 12n. inceluding service fees.
/ Itnte.t rast on working capital i calculeated at 106.
0/ Figures in perenthesis ropreeenft additional eubborrower contribution for paysant of interest oo ABC loan as ABC loan proceduroa do not adait capitelization of interest. IfP necessary, AKC *;Il
ran<tn additional short taere loan to eubborroer to  et teooray cah flow defic;t.
h/ netTion is aswusad et year 1: 106, year 2: 6, yar 8-15: 5    C  ould prov"ide  dditional loan to met any price cont;naency. Increeotol rovenue in noainl ters  would be wore than
*dequot to service th;i additional debt.



138
Annex 14
CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in the Project File
A. Project Preparation Reports and related documents
1.    Subproject feasibility studies and appraisal reports (in Chinese) prepared by
ABC and local governments in the following provinces: Inner Mongolia, Jilin,
Liaoning, Shaanxi, Jiangxi, Guangdong, and Beijing municipality.
2.    Executive Project Summary dated October 30, 1989
3.    Identification, Preparation, Preappraisal and Appraisal Missions' BTOs
and Aide Memoires
B.    Working Papers by Consultants on Preparation, Preappraisal and Appraisal
Missions
1.    Review of Livestock proposals in Inner Mongolia, Jilin and Beijing by FAO/CP
Preparation Mission.
2.    Review of Grassland-based Livestock proposals by D. Sheehy.
3.    Review of Livestock proposals in Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi, Jilin, Liaoning and
Beijing by P. Gilchrist.
4.    Review of Gong Qing State Farm's Duck production and processing subprojects
by J. Hald.
5.    Review of Apple planting and rehabilitation proposals in Shaanxi, Liaoning and
Beijing by W. Baier and E. Bayer.
6.    Review of Aquaculture component by R. Zweig.
7.    Appraisal of Tea Rehabilitation component in Jiangxi by R. K. Nathaniel.
8.    Review of Tree and annual crops proposals by Paul Liou.
9.    Financial Appraisal of ABC operations in Jiangxi and Liaoning by Sema Group of
France.
10.   Review of agroprocessing subprojects by C. Cronberg.
11.   Financial and Economic Rates of Return.



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC Organization At a Glance
Branches (29)    1     ''1Odapendent Accountnv EnStbsi)|
Thr&8   |   Pretectural CentS
County &brnhs           Suburban        Oa            ABC Trust
Wthan           ~~(2m7)             Omfces         Offlcee        Indvest
_    hil$          l                l:~~~~~209)   __ (209)   __    CO&
[Business Offices                               Car
(3045)                                     cxf
SavI       Oaces   1
EIC/IW46587a
cC
_    Trairing  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
InstibJte   SS802ttkes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC Head Office Organization
|Pres;dent
W ie P'reWdents 
r  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
Leadhg            Credt           Flnance and       Adnidstrafi       Mnatiutm
F=o     ',",rnan   Deartnmtnts       Accontinag                 Depart mentsA
leve braches  ABC  bakingbusiess Fninanacte atcunylee sbbancs
|uess Poffies an  sin CredR|l_    and                .Admnsstra-           Research
21DItribtion f eAgricultura by mao  russhw  nti catde  o
Offlee   |  | Planrin0  1  AcFunds                                                          -PIh
necssail Cndcat t                      Pry donnev v p d  Sents.
_khdustrbl    _  Audit for      ]   Tra      l        / Computer
O remi         _ 8upeviso Wiinw                        Servkces 
RCC    l   2 hnterntbonal|      orsln         |Puicts 
g N nagment|  gBusiness                 
Trust and                         r   .aIeatetI1Svis|
11 A simtra orgafnizatlonal structure exists at the provincial and prefecturo
kei branches. ABC's banking business in transacted at county level sub-branches.
businesa offices and eav    offices.                                                                     3
23 Distribution of departments by ms.ior gounps shown in this chart does not                            1
necessariiy indicate the responsiiity of individual vice-prealdenta .r
EKt/w4663?oa



CHINA
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Organization for Project Management
-Ministry of Finance   L                       _  _  _   -  -  -  -  -    ABC Presidents
State Planning CommissinA                                                 Council
ABC In-house    I
LrovincW Governmentica
otannln ~  AgEnoicW         TechnicaM ABc                              Leading GroupaTech.
Commission  Agencies  Agencies                          (Foreign Loans~       ~~) iConsuft-I
(Foreign L(Fregn
0  vvincial Govemment |                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nt
Project Management Committee    ......
r ounty/Ciy Govemment|
;;  ;;;1      ~Eoonomic  |       Technical  LL..i
Commiss on         Agencies         Agencies                     County/C ty
sranc           Credit sectionl   .      Technical
ABC           ProJect Unit           consultants
Prolect Management Commitee    -
* |~~~~. ........................
Note: ABC may set up at tepretea branches a project
organizaton similar to teoeorprovincial branches
shown sbove, It wannted btv he size and oompbedeo ot
be establIshed t needed for slalltating inter-
depailmental coordination end subloen colletions.



142
CHINA                                          CHART 4
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
lnplementation Schedule
Major Project Activities    CY            1990       1991           1992          1993           1994       1995
Otr             3  4   1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1 2
Project Orgnization & Management
Establish HO Leading Group, PO and TEG        xxxx
Establish Provincial and County PMCs & PUs  xxxx
Complete initial trng. of project staff       xxxxxxxx
Implement staff development plan for HO PO  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Review TEG operations /Strengthen TEG                            xx    xxxx            xxxx
Credit Program
ABC subproject appraisal and tech. studies  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Arrange issue of technical guidelines for:
Apple planting and rehabilitation          xxxxxxxxxxxx
Citrus Planting/post-harvest facilities  xxxxxxxxxxxx
Green tea rehabilitation/processing        xxxxxxxxxxxx
Mulberry planting/strengthen extension   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Ginseng planting                           xxxxxxxxxxxx
Complete review of irrigation subprojects   xxxxxxxxxxxx
Make AMP organization operational             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training of Project staff in AMP                     xxxxxxxx
Review of AMP program                                            xx             xxxx
Subloan disbursements                         x xxoxt9oocsattavooolxxxxxxxXXXxxXXXxxxxxxx
End-use verification of subloans                                              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Introduce/continue subloan monitoring        xJwrxxv txxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Submit progress reports: PUs/Prov. POs                                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Technical Assistance
Financial Management of ABC and RCCs
Symposium in Beijing                                  xxxx
Follow-up syiposiums for branches                          xxx         xxxxxx  xxx    xxx    xxx         xxxxxxxxxx
Mid-term review (ABC fin. management)                                  xxxx
Workshops for senior staff                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxx    xx    xxxx    xxxxxxxxx
Visits to foreign banks/business schools          x     x WOOtt xxxxxxxrxx  xx x    xxxxxxx
Formulation of MT and LT lending program               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Development of ABC's lending policies for
major client groups                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
ABC's Recapitalization Plan                          xxxxxxxxxxxcxx
Review of MIS                                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training of trainers                             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Special courses for project/credit staff             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment for HO                      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equi. for project provinces           xxxvxvxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX
Procurement for equip. for trng. institutes          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Monitoring of staff trng. activities                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI
Policy Reviews
Mid-term Review of Financial Policies and
Project Implementation                                                    xxxxxx
Rural Finance & Investment study                              xxxxxxxxxx
(including RCC system)                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Accounts and Audit
Establish separate project accounts           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
SAA audit                                                    xxxx           xxxx           xxxx          xxxx      xx
Progress Reports to Bank Group
On Credit Program                                 xx      xx    xx       xx    xx      xx    xx       xx    xx   xx1
On Technical assistance                           x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x    x   x   x    x   x!
PCR
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Prepare PCR                                                                                              xxxxxxxxx&xxxI
Legend xxxx represents implementation of, or follow-up on project activities. Some activities will extend
to 1995
Project completion date: June 30, 1995; closing date: December 31, 1995



L)  R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR)''t.
P               /                               ~~~~~~~MONG;(t A                                                          nh
_{#)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE tIr9q  t                     J             OGmm 
JAPAN
HohhG                                          OA
\1nd#/           /   )        t     lSlloth:  1 ,a           1               .      tKORI A
.~ ~ ~ ~~ ~  ~     ~ "  --  . )                                         ~                  g0 It gK}'l
,M I fl 14 11NI                                                         %
A~~~~~~~G IAAG 
._ ......... .                                                                            4........                                                   i    '
sb,4# -                                          MM                             *                    - ,
Nl Al'A               Ih.,* .                                          h0ngu*t                          wrl.           fIIgo
FOURT            CHINA            PR JC                                 .-ncan  -  l.8gh 
FO RT  RURAL  C E I PR JC-                                                '           '-      (i,,g    [ *       #t--      . IMN          /4N6>8
PRO)JECT  PROVINCES                                                               - -    I;fII?,,,,oe'   r                           fIIt48
o      '.I.-xt.tI 10..u1                                       f^N/.               -. (.1/AN (.A              Guangzhou
1) lMs11.s ( .1ltllx > <-                                                     0,lsl1
, , N    dlsbl s1X1t1.T ;, u.I_ n>                                         VII I NAN1M                                                   for d,-taIl ,-
___' _, _, _; _, _; __________  _                                  I)l.oL   H    t'             I   -   IJz,k uu 
.    '  '  |                 i ~~~~I t A lI :NI)2                       I M /Ait 



.                           lzO~~~~~~~~~~2                           12 5'                                    130    1                 
,,            o~~~1Moke                  '\,                                             ,              Osf,sE
\      Manqui                                                                              GzAn51rrOtrE
y               .                                        O.dcG^, 5      ;    ,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R, ,,, :~E
,E fGUN                                                                                  CIUN       UB      ZfJ
U. S,. S. R.                                    YKSEH                      "    5ooghnV                                                 U        
i  '.'-:- .... t .. . 'S ~~~~~~~~~~~H                             ih ,, .
f   a   XezNuOoAtG  ,JiD<RAN   ?   ,    /          -           >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0               A~           ~A
. . .    XlS8ARAG   ' '   ,   [''  ,v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MC.. A
MONGOLIA         \.'                          X -          -     E                                                                      t~~~~~~~~OPJ4DII
],  ,.v  g  r/jtJ,d,SJ!N. 6Dali~~~~~~~1                                      Beon   CHIN
e   ,  ,~      tf 51tNEI  ONGOf JIIN,UAONNG POVINESl
jH       e                         MNIZ                                                                               o AN   BEI ING UIPATl
/,  .    ;>\  ( ,                                                                                                Project ornponents
ts,">"~~1 \X ~IN 9iAO rAG
.   Hg      ~~<                  .n   LiZL,O=
X r r1ieNAG7hy        I/+                                                                                           Arpoesn
,      #pDeIo .                                                                                           -      Rod
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAU SH                                    Qiq, _-                                           cirod
a~~~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ I L 0                                                               Cont G)on Ionir A N Grjc
,    _   _.iJion-        PeSlue c ndris YpovrcAinl
MONGO                SHLIADON                                                                                     PoineBonare 
- 4;                                                                                              }?  Ini rnahoncl   Ba undories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J x
w  H NAN    2   rOIoms                           3                                 o           loo          200         30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arin0  452
_                           r_,,,,,,,,tw                                                    KllObbEIERS                              lN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.dnjon
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



to5                                                                     110t                         oErenlsot                      u
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    O 4   I  Ao  j $ s r, N
/                             i'SO                                           A s s ,
MONGOLIA                                                                                              dc~~~~~_  UNOO'
.-'/   '              .           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9P ,F .Jseef0W
/     -  M& .D'  SHASP  s   $O'
Boyn O                                                                     ;bo      M
PIWAN~~~~~I
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PoJECT
SHAANXI AND NEt     MANGOL PM.1N~
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rlc Componen.tSs:% {      j
AN                                                                                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~
*.--4  /_   AN   +  g  1   ~~~~~~~~~~ )          SHANGNW <~~~~~                                ProjCopronenh:n
} '.  1--'>  ' }   <~~~'                                             Y                              O  Cr.,Ts
0      Se                                                                                           T. KA"                    H {., .XC   ieNANr
z  <   \   _ /   \  {    l 5        t   _                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroadn
Co  H  I unt  xin  BundAries N
SIC 0UAN   y                    4   -                                                       ---   Preoecture Boundaries    pr:ovnces
Province Boundgries
-. -.-  IriternPtiovnol Boundaries
a  44. W.24a4a..a4w ,~                                                                                  o               ]oo              200
S   8--@-a-b #e    ___tw  Vw IKsLII-I 1--- ----- ----- _ r
KIIOMETERS
8              r



/     \R, *JS $ _
1$ ~~~~     ,j1 lo   OG'                                                                                                                   .
M O A Q O L   A          /I I N                                                                                                                                        ,  -
CUAONING DZu ErIArs
5$' RAMQ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
ATE _ r     REP or KOREA                      '                                                      ."
|   r l; N ;~~~~~  5 H '  3 1 >  o r  r o r r A  I  .   E  {   ,   ,   .              ; 4                                                  9~~~~~~-L e p i q . 
N OIAGARA    SHANCONG           XPAN                                                                         w                                                                I
OFNGHA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0JN,~
riSUJwAANX  NAALA JIANAGSU A                                                             F              C
S'C'ROAN   !''A    ~  IAr/ANG                                                                                        Non                                                          20 'U
UNANIN        NJD                                                                                                                         N
Y1P  Ni~'   GUANGDosOt t              3                                                                     6           ,' ,  
+ e D rr   H A;N A N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   tHIUrtN ZS   _   < ,  % ,   (~ ~~~~~Z H A C ,  'D ENEN'A N   \                 A W U U N
4~~~~~~~~4
$,<>,Mo   t~~~~~~=4fft6                                      I      yoNGiXliJ ti O  / ~~~~~~~~~Lepinl9      OEOOSfG 
bxP_ensm_So.enescl ............... hiewd<t -'-... 'OG1 \/                                                                   0, -V?/ONGCDSHANNA ,
,4MANAM
T. H..gy-g          DA'     -.Pa a %ho
0ANY4AN 2P-  .- O+O   I   ;       QWANSN
li ~      ~       K       -'n 1i'Jf ~                                           0  ;,
YWJG0 (t                        /        \- NG                 SNNGA
.-' ~  ~      ~       0 ,,  -.                         '0           ,,
.._ Cm-AVFNGSHI 2
25.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
o
-~~~~                                                                                 '0 "QU~Qt N
.,.,K                                                           U.K.
, ~~AA                       ;;JNING  C~JANGXIJAND  UNDN RVNE
',. .5'  , - 1'                                  ,   4,                                 S.A. .,OU 4)
t  )   g->,       r      X )           t     >       SlJ      HONen  KONG, U.K.
y 6\ .(                                                                                                        CHINA
z   X   , ,       >,r                                f~~~~MACAO, PORt.           FOURTH RURALCREDIT PROJECT
9~~~ ' ,~~~ ...., . RpNG ......  JIANGXI AND GUANGDONG PROVINCES
\   4 /;  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~Ptojed Componenis:
0       Crops
L0 vestock
-<'/     Aquoculfure
Agroprocessing
-Roads
Xuwen                                                                                                                 Railroads
Coeunty (Xiton)  ndourni   Projed
--Prefetdure Boundaries                                                                                                                        prcvi
-20   Halifco                                                                                              -       Province Boundaries
--   ntemcofional Boundaries,
HAINAN
ISLAND                                                                                                                         so       too        1         200 
tHAINAN. 
I i1'                                                                                                   1-                         



