Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2182-0 CHA
(Fourth Rural Credit Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 10, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2182-0 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1990, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to seventy five million dollars ($75,000,000) 
(the Loan);
(C)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Agricultural Bank of 
China (ABC) with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to ABC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and ABC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions) with 
the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)
"ABC Documents" means the Circular of the Borrower's State Council on the 
Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council 
Document No. (1979) 56) and the Decision of the Borrower's State Council on the 
Exclusive Exercise of Central Bank Functions by the People's Bank of China, dated 
September 17, 1983 (State Council Document No. (1983) 146);
(b)
"ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized banking 
institution established and operating under the laws of the Borrower including, inter 
alia, the ABC Documents;
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and ABC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ABC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and 
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)
"Subsidiary Loan" means the subsidiary loan provided for in the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)
"Project Entity" means the Provinces of Fujian, Guangdong, Hubei, Hunan, 
Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning and Shaanxi, the Autonomous Regions of Inner Mongolia and 
Guangxi Zhuang, Beijing Municipality and such other provinces, autonomous regions or 
municipalities in the territory of the Borrower as shall be approved by the 
Association and the Bank for participation in the Project; and "Project Entity" means 
any one of the Project Entities;
(g)
"RCC" means a rural credit cooperative established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower in a Project Entity, selected by ABC for participation in 
making Subloans under Part A of the Project, which has met the eligibility criteria 
set forth in paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Subborrower" means an individual, individual or specialized household, 
collective, cooperative, township or village enterprise, state farm, state-owned or 
registered enterprise, or
supply or marketing cooperative, or combinations thereof, in a Project Entity to which 
ABC proposes to make or has made a Subloan (hereinafter defined);
(i)
"ABC Subloan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, by ABC directly 
to a Subborrower for purposes of carrying out a Subproject (hereinafter defined) and 
utilizing the proceeds of the Credit;
Page  3
(j)
"RCC Subloan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, by ABC through 
an RCC to a Subborrower for purposes of carrying out a Subproject (hereinafter 
defined) and utilizing the proceeds of the Credit;
(k)
"Subloan" means an ABC Subloan or an RCC Subloan; 
 
(l)
"Free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan which qualifies as a free-limit 
Subloan pursuant to the provisions of Part A paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement;
(m)
"Subproject" means a rural development project as described in Part A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be carried out by a Subborrower utilizing the 
proceeds of a Subloan;
(n)
"Subloan Interest Rates" means the annual interest rates charged to 
Subborrowers referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Part B of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement;
(o)
"Basel Agreement" means the Agreement for establishing minimum capital 
levels in banking, established by the Bank Committee on Banking Regulation and 
Supervision Practices, issued in 1988;
(p)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(r)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term include the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to
one hundred forty-three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
143,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts 
paid or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid, by ABC:
(i)
on account of withdrawals made by a Subborrower under a Subloan to 
meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for a 
Subproject in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Credit Account 
is requested; and
(ii)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for Part B of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and ABC of such later date.
Page  4
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2000 and ending May 15, 2025. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2010 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ABC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Sections 2.02 and 4.01 of this Agreement, and Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement 
and Article V of the General Conditions (as defined in this Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement).
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, shall: (i) cause ABC to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ABC therein set 
forth; (ii) take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of foreign 
exchange and other funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable ABC to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to ABC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ABC under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall 
include:
(i)
repayment of all amounts due and outstanding by ABC, in the 
currency onlent by the 
Borrower, within 15 years, including a grace 
period not to exceed 5 years, such 
principal amounts to be 
the amount of Renminbi onlent and the SDR equivalent of 
foreign exchange onlent;
(ii)
payment of interest by ABC: (A) at a non-subsidized rate on all 
outstanding 
principal amounts onlent in Renminbi; and (B) at a 
rate not less than the 
prevailing IBRD Loan rate, or 
such other market-based rate as shall be acceptable 
to the 
Association, the Borrower and ABC, on all outstanding principal amounts 
onlent in foreign exchange;
(iii)
for purposes of paragraph (ii) of this Section, the following 
terms shall have the 
following meanings: (A) "non-subsidized rate" 
means an interest rate, calculated in 
accordance with Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and (B) "IBRD Loan rate" means the 
variable 
interest rate charged by the Bank under Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement; and
(iv)
payment by ABC to the Borrower of all amounts the Borrower shall 
have paid as 
commitment charges pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 (a) of this 
Agreement.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as required 
under Section 3.02 (c) below and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof so as to affect the provisions of paragraph 
(b) above.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, in consultation with 
ABC, review from time to time and at the request of either party, the interest rates 
being charged by the Borrower to ABC pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, by ABC 
in its lending operations, and Subloan Interest Rates.
(b)
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary or appropriate to ensure 
that: (i) interest rates charged by ABC are sufficient to permit ABC to comply with 
the provisions of Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement, including ensuring that ABC 
has the authority to increase Subloan Interest Rates if necessary to achieve the 
minimum spread requirement set forth in Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement; and 
(ii) Subloan Interest Rates are positive in real terms, determined using a method and 
criteria acceptable to the Association.
(c)
If any measures are required to be taken by the Borrower pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above and which require adjustments to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
then the Borrower and ABC shall amend the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in a manner 
Page  6
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out in respect 
of Parts A and B of the Project by ABC pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause each Project Entity to assist ABC in 
carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, including causing each Project Entity to 
take the actions to be taken by such
Project Entity referred to or described in the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that Subprojects are implemented in 
conformity with appropriate guidelines, acceptable to the Association, for 
environmental protection issued by the Borrower and the Project Entities.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower, with the participation of ABC, shall, by June 
30, 1992, carry out the study described in Part C of the Project under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, including analyzing the role and functions 
of RCCs and non-governmental financial institutions in relationship to ABC in the 
provision of financing for the agriculture sector.
(b)
Promptly thereafter, the Borrower shall discuss the results of the study 
with the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary or appropriate to 
ensure that: (a) ABC maintains adequate equity in order to comply with the provisions 
of Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement in carrying out the provisions of Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement; and 
(b) ABC maintains the capital adequacy ratios in accordance with the recapitalization 
plan referred to in Section 3.04 (d) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
requirements under the General Conditions (as defined in this Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement) and the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 
1992, carry out a midterm review with the Association of the progress of:
(a)
implementing overall financial sector reform, including overall credit 
and interest rate policies, rationalization of the interest rate structure, and 
banking regulation and supervision; and
(b)
carrying out the Project and ABC's institutional development, including 
ABC's risk-assets ratios and recapitalization plan, and implementation of the credit 
and technical assistance programs under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures from
the Special Account in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Page  7
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonable requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonable 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ABC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ABC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The laws of the Borrower applicable to ABC, including the ABC Documents 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of ABC or its ability 
to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ABC or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and ABC; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and 
ABC respectively;
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement; and
 
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
Page  8
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ABC, 
and is legally binding upon ABC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ABC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit or 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
                       Amount          Amount
                       of the          of the
                       Credit           Loan            % of
                      Allocated       Allocated       Expendi-
                     (Expressed      (Expressed        tures
                       in SDR         in Dollar        to be
     Category        Equivalent)     Equivalent)      Financed
(1) Subloan
    under Part A
    of the
    Project:
    (a)  ABC Sub-    132,920,000      75,000,000      71% of funds
         loans                                        disbursed by
                                                      ABC for ABC
                                                      Subloans
    (b)  RCC Sub-      8,620,000          0           100% of
         loans                                        funds dis-
                                                      bursed by
                                                      ABC for RCC
                                                      Subloans
(2) Goods includ-      1,220,000          0           100% of
    ing machinery                                     foreign ex-
    and equipment                                     penditures,
    under Part B                                      100% of lo-
    of the Project                                    cal expen-
                                                      ditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and
                                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other
                                                      items
                                                      procured
                                                      locally
(3) Overseas             940,000          0           100%
    fellow-
    ships,
    staff train-
    ing and
    consultants'
    services
    under Part B
    of the
    Project
                     ___________      __________
         TOTAL       143,700,000      75,000,000
                     ===========      ==========
Page  10
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 17,960,000 may be made in
respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1990, for which the Association has authorized 
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to stimulate growth and diversification 
of agriculture in the Project Entities; and (b) to promote efficiency of rural 
financial intermediation and support ABC's institutional development.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Credit Program
 
Financing investments to increase agricultural production and productivity in 
the Project Entities, including:
a.
crop development:
 
(i)
establishing new and rehabilitating existing apple orchards;
 
(ii)
planting citrus trees and establishing post-harvest handling 
facilities;
(iii)
planting fruit trees other than apple and citrus;
 
(iv)
rehabilitating green tea production;
 
(v)
mulberry planting and improvement and the establishment of 
facilities for silk 
cocoon production; and
 
(vi)
constructing irrigation facilities.
 
b.
pasture-based and feed-based livestock development;
 
c.
fisheries development;
 
d.
agroprocessing development:
 
(i)
expanding and rehabilitating tea processing factories;
(ii)
construction of slaughterhouse and cold storage facilities; and
 
Page  11
(iii)
construction of other facilities in support of agricultural, 
livestock and 
fisheries production, processing and 
marketing; and
e.
other agricultural investments that have been approved by the 
Association.
Part B:
Institutional Development of ABC
 
1.
Upgrading ABC's financial management and management information systems, and 
provision of office technology and equipment.
2.
Training ABC's senior staff, staff in Project Entities and strengthening of 
ABC's trainers' training programs.
Part C:
Rural Investment and Finance Study
 
Carrying out a study of rural investment and finance, rural financial 
institutions, and credit and interest rate policies.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that 
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Free-limit Subloans may be made out of the Special Account before the Association 
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in 
respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures 
only if the Association or the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to seventeen 
million dollars ($17,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Page  12
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions applicable to 
this Agreement and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Association or
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank, all or any portion of the funds on deposit into the Special 
Account.
Page  13
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit 
Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 4
Calculation of Interest Rates
1.
This Schedule applies to the onlending of the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Borrower to ABC in Renminbi for purposes of making Subloans under the Project.
2.
The interest rate charged shall be based on ABC's weighted average interest cost 
of long-term domestic funds, provided, however, that the interest rate charged by the 
Borrower to ABC shall not be lower than the interest rate charged by the Borrower or 
PBC to other specialized banks for similar loans for similar purposes. 
3.
ABC's weighted average interest cost of long-term domestic funds, shall be 
calculated and weighted in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association. For 
purposes of this Schedule the
term "long-term domestic funds" means resources raised from domestic sources by means 
of fixed-term borrowings, issuing bonds, notes or certificates, or holding deposits 
with maturities of five years or
less (including not more than 20% of total demand deposits).
4.
The Borrower shall determine the lowest interest rate charged by the Borrower or 
People's Bank of China to other specialized banks for similar loans for similar 
purposes. In this context, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"other specialized banks" means banks that emphasize lending within 
particular sectors in China and includes the Industrial Commercial Bank of China, Bank 
of China and People's Construction Bank of China;
(b)
"similar loans" means loans made for similar maturities and grace 
periods; and
(c)
"similar purposes" means any loan made for purposes of financing 
development projects or investments.
5.
The interest rate charged by the Borrower to ABC shall be equivalent to the 
interest rate determined under paragraph 3  above, unless the interest rate determined 
under paragraph 4 above is
higher, in which case the interest rate charged by the Borrower to ABC shall be 
equivalent to the interest rate determined under paragraph 4.
6.
The interest rate to be charged by the Borrower to ABC shall be determined at 
least annually in accordance with the above provisions and shall be applied 
prospectively on all outstanding amounts due from ABC to the Borrower.
