Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3265-0 CHA
CREDIT NUMBER 2182-0 CHA
(Fourth Rural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
Dated December 10, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3265-0 CHA
CREDIT NUMBER 2182-0 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1990 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA (ABC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
hundred forty-three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
143,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that ABC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association and the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventy five
million dollars ($75,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Page  2
Agreement, but only on condition that ABC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association and the Bank as are set forth in this Project Agreement; and
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ABC, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the proceeds of the
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement, will be made available to ABC on terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ABC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined respectively in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of ABC
Section 2.01. (a) ABC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to this end, shall 
carry out and cause to be carried out, Parts A and B of the Project, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, 
engineering, agricultural and environmental standards and practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other
resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Bank and ABC shall otherwise agree, ABC shall carry 
out Parts A and B of the Project, with the assistance of the Borrower and the Project 
Entities pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. ABC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as required under Section 3.03 of this Agreement and except as 
the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ABC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, waiving or failing to enforce the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof so as to affect the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ABC undertakes that, unless the Association and the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, Subloans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
ABC shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association, the Bank and ABC; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.05. ABC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to Development 
Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions applicable to Loan Agreement (relating respectively to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) ABC shall, at the request of the Association and the Bank, 
exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit 
and the Loan.
(b)
ABC shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit and the Loan, or the performance by ABC of its obligations under this Agreement 
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. ABC shall ensure that the aggregate amount of all Subloans made 
within the territory of a Project Entity shall be satisfactory to the Association and 
the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ABC
Section 3.01. ABC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) ABC shall take all measures, necessary or appropriate, to 
ensure that it retains (after payment of income and adjustment taxes to the Borrower, 
and including any amounts retained by RCCs as fees for intermediation of RCC Subloans) 
amounts equivalent to at least two and one half (2.5) percentage points interest rate 
spread, or such other spread as shall be acceptable to the Association and the Bank, 
determined by calculating, in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
the difference between:
(i)
the weighted average of the Subloan Interest Rates; and
 
(ii)
the weighted average of the cost of funds available to ABC from 
all sources, 
including ABC's own funds and the Subsidiary Loan, 
for purposes of making Subloans 
under the Project.
 
(b)
ABC shall take all measures, necessary or appropriate, to ensure that it 
retains amounts from interest rate spreads for its total lending operations 
(commercial and policy-based subsidized
lending) sufficient to maintain ABC's financial viability and profitability, including 
provisioning for bad debts on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Association and 
the Bank.
Section 3.03. ABC shall maintain its equity at a level of not less than 5% of 
its risk assets, calculated in a manner acceptable to the Association and the Bank. 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the following meanings: (a) 
"equity" means contributions from the Borrower, retained profits and cash funds which 
are not liabilities external to ABC, minus provisioning for bad debts, as reflected in 
ABC's audited financial statements; and (b) "risk assets" means assets other than 
cash, balances with PBC, investments in government-issued or government-guaranteed 
securities, and fixed assets, as reflected in ABC's audited financial statements.
Section 3.04. (a) ABC shall, in conjunction with the Borrower, develop a plan, 
using financial standards and criteria acceptable to the Association and the Bank, to 
recapitalize ABC, including
mechanisms for equity replenishment and a timetable for implementation.
Page  4
(b)
ABC shall provide the recapitalization plan, as agreed with the Borrower, 
to the Association and the Bank by not later than December 31, 1991.
(c)
Promptly thereafter, ABC shall, in conjunction with the Borrower, discuss 
the recapitalization plan with the Association and the Bank, and make any 
modifications to the final plan that may be required to ensure that ABC's 
risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio shall be at least 8% within a reasonable period 
of time. For purposes of this Section, "risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio"
shall have the same meaning set forth in the Basel Convention and shall be calculated 
in a manner acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
(d)
ABC shall carry out the final recapitalization plan, as the same may have 
been updated, in accordance with the timetable for implementation.
Section 3.05. ABC shall, at the request of the Borrower, the Association or the 
Bank, participate in the review described in Sections 3.02 (a) and 3.09 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, and shall take any action required to be taken by ABC 
pursuant to Sections 3.02 (c) and 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.06. ABC shall inform the Association and the Bank of any changes in 
the ABC Documents.
Article IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ABC shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, procedures, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained, 
sound accounting practices: (1) the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Project; and (2) the operations and financial condition of ABC and ABC's 
provincial and county branches in the Project Provinces.
(b)
ABC shall:
 
(i)
cause the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above and the 
records, accounts and 
financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) of ABC's 
provincial branches in the Project Provinces for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank, as soon as available but 
in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified copies of the 
accounts and the financial 
statements for such year as so audited; (B) the report 
of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
or the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (C) the financial 
statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses) 
of ABC's provincial and county 
branches in the Project Provinces and 
ABC's total operations for such year; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, as 
well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association or the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, ABC 
shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Association and the Bank have 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
disbursement from the Credit Account 
or Loan Account was made, 
Page  5
whichever is later, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable representatives of the Association and the Bank to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. ABC shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including Renminbi) 
used in its operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the first date 
upon which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become 
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and ABC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the first date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and 
the Loan 
Agreement shall have been terminated; or
 
(ii)
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates or 
both of said Agreements terminate, before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of 
this Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify ABC of such event. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated 
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  6
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For ABC:
Agricultural Bank of China
25 Fuxing Road
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
1053
22017 ABC CN
Beijing
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ABC, may be 
taken or executed by its President, or by such other person or persons as ABC's 
President shall designate in writing, and ABC shall furnish to the Association and the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. If the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to ABC, and 
provided that the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of ABC to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of
such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, ABC shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the given of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures, Terms and Conditions
of Subloans
Part A:
Procedures for Appraisal of Subprojects and Approval of Subloans
 
1.
Subprojects shall be appraised by ABC, or by the RCC in the case of a Subproject 
financed by an RCC Subloan, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank, including:
(a)
Subprojects shall be designed and carried out in conformity with 
appropriate guidelines, acceptable to the Association and the Bank, on environmental 
protection issued by the Borrower and
Project Provinces;
(b)
Subprojects shall have estimated financial and economic returns of no 
less than fifteen percent (15%) determined in accordance with internationally accepted 
methods of project appraisal;
(c)
If a Subproject is to be carried out by a state farm or intermediary 
enterprise, ABC, or the RCC in the case of an RCC Subloan, shall appraise the 
enterprise in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(d)
Subprojects shall be reviewed for their technical feasibility and 
determined to be feasible by ABC and when appro-priate, technical feasibility studies 
of a Subproject shall be carried out; and
(e)
Subprojects shall comply with the specific conditions for Subprojects set 
forth in Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been approved by the 
Association and the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association and the Bank shall have 
received the application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule in respect of such Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been a Free-limit Subloan for 
which the Association or the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account 
or the Loan Account and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Association or the Bank shall have received the request and information 
Page  8
required under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such Free-limit Subloan. 
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and this 
Agreement, a Free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan for a Subproject in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan which shall not exceed the sum 
of $3,000,000 equivalent.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a Free-limit Subloan) to the 
Association and the Bank for approval, ABC shall furnish to the Association and the 
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, together 
with: (i) a description of the Subborrower and an appraisal of the Subproject, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, 
including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and (iii) such other 
information as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request. ABC shall approve 
such Subloan only after the Association and the Bank has notified ABC of its approval.
(b)
Each request by ABC for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Subloan shall contain a 
summary description of the Subborrower, the Subproject and the terms and conditions of 
the Subloan, listed by Project Entity.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) above, the 
first two Subprojects for the establishment of irrigation facilities shall be 
submitted to the Association and the
Bank for review of technical, financial and implementation arrangements prior to 
approval of any Subloan to finance such Subproject by ABC, or by an RCC in the case of 
an RCC Subloan.
Part B:
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
 
1.
Except as the Association or the Bank may otherwise agree, the  terms and 
conditions for each Subloan shall be:
(a)
Subborrower Contribution. Each subborrower shall contribute not less than 
thirty percent (30%) of the total cost of each Subproject and shall provide collateral 
as security for the Subloan,
or a guarantee of a creditworthy individual or entity, consistent with ABC's practices 
of securing loans.
(b)
Interest Rate. Each Subborrower shall pay interest from time to time on 
the principal amount of a Subloan withdrawn and outstanding at a rate, which shall be 
not lower than: (1) ABC's
prevailing annual interest rate, or at RCC's prevailing annual interest rate in the 
case of an RCC Subloan, for similar loans for similar purposes; and (2) such other 
annual interest rate as shall (i) be positive in real terms and (ii) which shall 
permit ABC to comply with the interest rate spread retention provisions of Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
(c)
Amortization and Grace Period. The amortization period of a Subloan shall 
be based on the estimated cash-flow of the Subproject financed and shall include an 
appropriate grace period, provided, however, that such amortization period shall not 
exceed fifteen (15) years. If a Subborrower is required to pay interest on a Subloan 
during such grace period, then ABC, or the RCC in the case of an RCC Subloan, shall 
determine that a Subborrower has income, from sources other than income generated by 
the proposed Subproject, adequate to pay such interest.
(d)
Currency. Subloans may be: (a) withdrawn and repaid in Renminbi; or (b) 
withdrawn in foreign exchange and repaid in foreign exchange or Renminbi with the 
Subborrower bearing any foreign
exchange risks.
2.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby ABC shall obtain, or the RCC shall 
obtain in the case of an RCC Subloan, by written contract with the Subborrower, or by 
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Association, the Bank and ABC, and RCC in the case of an RCC Subloan, including, the 
right to:
Page  9
(a)
require the Subborrower to carry out and operate the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance accordance with sound administrative, 
financial, managerial, agricultural, engineering and environmental standards, and to 
maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association and 
the Bank if the Association and the Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants 
and construction included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Subborrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, such insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) the Subborrower take adequate 
steps to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in rate of 
exchange between the various currencies, including Renminbi;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association, the Bank, or ABC, or RCC 
in the case of an RCC Subloan, shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and 
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Subborrower and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Subborrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan upon failure by such Subborrower to perform its 
obligations under its contract with ABC, or RCC in the case of an RCC Subloan.
Part C:
Specific Provisions of RCC Subloans
 
1.
When making an RCC Subloan through an RCC, ABC shall obtain by written contact 
with an eligible RCC, or by other appropriate means, the obligation of the RCC to make 
RCC Sub-loans in accordance with
the procedures, terms and conditions described in or referred to in this Schedule for 
making Subloans.
2.
To be eligible for participation in Part A of the Project, an RCC:
 
(a)
shall have a financial condition satisfactory to ABC;
 
(b)
shall have equity reserves of not less than six percent (6%) of its total 
loan portfolio, determined as of December 31 of each year;
(c)
shall have a total amount of its past-due loans not exceeding twenty 
percent (20%) of the total amount of loans outstanding and its past-due loans in 
arrears for more than three years shall not exceed more than five percent (5%) of the 
total amount of loans outstanding, determined as of December 31 of each year;
(d)
meet liquidity requirements established by ABC; and
 
(e)
have appropriately trained staff.
 
3.
In order to make an RCC Subloan, ABC shall:
 
(a)
onlend no more than fifty percent (50%) of the total cost of the 
Subproject financed by an RCC Subloan;
(b)
require repayment by the RCC within the same amortization period and with 
the same grace period as the RCC Subloan;
(c)
require payment of interest at ABC's prevailing annual interest rate for 
similar loans to RCCs for similar purposes;
(d)
require withdrawal and repayment of funds onlent from ABC to RCC in the 
Page  10
same currency as the RCC Subloan; and
(e)
have determined and agreed with the RCC as to the credit risk associated 
with the RCC Subloan and the liability for such credit risk.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Civil Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, bulk purchase of agricultural inputs shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with 
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for chemical fertilizers shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of fertilizers in accordance with the procedures described in 
Part A.1 hereof, agricultural inputs manufactured in China may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for bulk purchases of agricultural inputs estimated to cost less than 
$5,000,000 shall be procured through national procurement agencies acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank, in accordance with procurement procedures acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items of machinery and equipment estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and items or groups of items of machinery and 
equipment to be used for processing products for export estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, shall be procured under contracts awarded through 
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids invited from a list of at least four qualified suppliers from at least three 
countries eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.56 thereof).
3.
Items or groups of items of machinery and equipment (excluding machinery and 
equipment to be used for processing products for export), estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 but more than the equivalent of $50,000, and civil works under Part A of the 
Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and 
the Bank.
4.
Items or groups of items of machinery and equipment estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or less, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (a) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (b) the first three contracts awarded in accordance with Part C, 
paragraph 2 above; and (c) the first three contracts awarded in accordance with Part 
C, paragraph 3 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
Page  11
the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association and 
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association and the 
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association and the Bank have authorized withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditures.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist ABC in carrying out the Project, ABC shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
2.
All such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Implementation Arrangements
 
1.
Each Project Entity shall establish and maintain a project management committee 
(PMC) with composition and functions acceptable to the Association and the Bank, 
including a representative of the
environmental protection agency (EPA) of the Project Entity, in order to assist ABC in 
carrying out the Project in such Project Entity.
2.
ABC shall cause its provincial branch in each Project Entity to establish and 
maintain a project office, with staffing acceptable to the Association and the Bank, 
in order to supervise and monitor
Project implementation in such Project Entity, and to assist county-level project 
units and committees with the guidance of the Project Entity PMC.
3.
Whenever appropriate to ensure interdepartmental coordination in the processing 
and supervision of Subprojects, or to facilitate collection of Subloans, ABC shall 
establish and maintain county-level project committees.
4.
ABC shall cause its county-level offices in a Project Entity to obtain approval 
of each Subproject by the relevant EPA prior to financing such Subproject.
5.
ABC shall maintain and strengthen its technical expert group (TEG) at its 
headquarters in order to provide specialized expertise in appraisal and supervision of 
Subprojects. ABC shall, by December
31, 1991, review the progress of strengthening TEG, as well as proposed measures to 
improve technical support to ABC operations with the Association and the Bank.
6.
ABC shall furnish the progress reports referred to in Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement, and in Section 
Page  12
9.07 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement to the 
Association and the Bank, on a semiannual basis, by August 31 and February 28 of each 
year.
Part B:
Requirements for Execution of Specific Subprojects
 
1.
(a)
Pasture-based livestock development Subprojects in Inner Mongolia, Jilin, 
Shaanxi and Liaoning shall be carried out using area management planning (AMP) 
techniques acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
(b)
ABC shall conduct an assessment, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association and the Bank, of the use of AMP techniques in the Subprojects referred 
to in subparagraph (a) hereof, and review the results of such assessment with the 
Association and the Bank by December 31 of each year during Project implementation.
2.
(a)
Each Project Entity shall establish environmental protection standards, 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank, for cage fisheries, including cage area to 
open water area standards.
(b)
Cage fishery Subprojects shall be carried out in accordance with the 
standards established pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) hereof.
3.
Subprojects for the rehabilitation of existing apple orchards, planting of new 
apple orchards, planting of fruit trees, post-harvest handling of citrus and other 
fruits, green tea rehabilitation, mulberry planting or improvement and silk cocoon 
production, bamboo planting or rehabilitation, ginseng planting or rehabilitation, and 
afforestation, shall be carried out under technical guidelines, including where 
appropriate, area limitations, acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
4.
If as a result of the midterm review referred to in Section 3.09 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, new technical recommendations for Subproject 
implementation are agreed upon by the Borrower,
the Bank, the Association and ABC, then ABC shall ensure that Subprojects are carried 
out in accordance with such technical recommendations.
5.
If the Bank and the Association accept an additional Project Entity for 
participation in the Project after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, then 
ABC shall ensure that Subprojects are carried out in accordance with any technical 
recommendations agreed to by the Borrower, the Bank, the Association and ABC, for 
Subproject implementation in the additional Project Entity.
