Report No. PID5610
Project Name                     Morocco-Protected Area Management Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       MAPA48314
Borrower                         Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing Agency              Forests and Water Administration (AEFCS)
within the Ministry of Agriculture,
Civil Works and Environment
Administration des Eaux, des Forets
et de la Conservation des Sols
Dr. Hanan Abderrhmane
Director General
Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la
Mise en Valeur Agricole (MAMVA)
Phone: 212 7 76 26 63
Fax:    212 7 76 44 46
Date of This PID                 September 17th, 1997
Projected Board Date             July 1998
1.      Background:
Morocco, with a land area of 711,000km2, is the second most
biologically diverse country in the Mediterranean basin. Because of
its location and topography, there are extremes in climate, with
negligible rainfall in the arid areas of the Sahara, and
precipitation of 2,000 mms in the northern mountains with altitudes
up to 4,000 m and permanent snow-cover. There are an estimated
4,000 species of vascular plants of which 209 are endemic, and 550
vertebrates including 101 mammals. 30 species of birds are
endangered, while of Morocco's endangered plants 405 are endemic.
There are 39 ecosystem types, ranging form various forms of
mountain and lowland forests, grasslands and wetlands to coastal
lagoons, beaches and marine environments.
The principal threats to biodiversity are habitat transformation,
fragmentation and degradation, due to increasing population
pressures and poor management of natural resources. 49% of
Morocco's population are rural, but they account for 70% of the
country's poor. 85% of household energy consumption is from
fuelwood. Urbanization, industrialization and tourism in coastal
areas have also transformed habitats. Less than 1% of the land area
currently comes under some form of protection.
In recent years, awareness of linkages between development
activities and biodiversity degradation has grown in Morocco,
supported by a number of participatory assessments and studies
undertaken during formulation of the National Environmental Action
Plan. A legal framework to carry out systematic environmental
impact assessments is being established. A comprehensive study of



Morocco's biodiversity and protected areas was completed in 1996
with the support of the African Development Bank. It proposes a
comprehensive strategy and investment plan for extending Morocco's
protected area network and conserving its biodiversity, and is the
basis of the present project proposal.
Institutional responsibilities for protected area management are
well-established in Morocco. The agency with direct responsibility
for protected area management is the AEFCS (Administration des Eaux
et Forets et Conservation des Sols) within the Ministry of
Agriculture. It has a well-established administration at regional
and local level. The National Council for the Environment within
the Ministry of the Environment provides overall policy guidance.
2.      Project Objectives:
The overall project objectives are:
-- To establish a system of protected areas in Morocco; and
-- to promote sustainable conservation management, with the
participation of local populations, of the ecosystems in
the areas supported by the project.
Progress toward the first objective would be measured and monitored
according to the size of protected areas designated and with
management plans under implementation, numbers of skilled staff,
appropriate legal status, and establishment of essential park
equipment and infrastructure. Progress towards the second would be
measured by monitoring changes in key ecosystem indicators over the
1995 baseline, and implementing the participation plans.
3.      Project Components:
-- Implementation of conservation management plans in
selected protected areas, including restoration of fragile
ecosystems, compensating interventions for the local
populations, participatory workshops, improvement of park
infrastructure and establishment of GIS for local park
management; the component would support up to six national
parks, including Ifrane, Tazekka, Toubkal, the Eastern
High Atlas, Talassemtane and Al-Hoceima; (US$9.1 millions);
-- preparation and implementation of conservation management
plans at selected Sites of Biological and Ecological
Interest (SIBEs), and pilot programs for re-introduction
of selected mammals and raptors (US$1.4 millions);
-- Training of park management staff and rangers, training of
AEFCS staff, establishment of a GIS at central level to
facilities ME, and establishment of multi-year plans for
resource mobilization for selected raptors and mammals (US$1.7 millions);
-- public awareness activities, in cooperation with NGOs,
schools and local organizations, to promote understanding
-2 -



about nature conservation (US$1.1 millions).
4.      Project Costs and Financing:
Total project costs are estimated at US$13.3 millions, including
the GEF grant of US$9.8 millions and government contribution of
US$3.5 millions.
5.      Project Implementation:
The project would be implemented by the AEFCS in the Ministry of
Agriculture. At the central level the Department of Wildlife,
Hunting and Fishing would have overall responsibility for project
implementation including the budget, execution of TA and training,
strengthening park management; organization for monitoring,
disbursement and audit with the Ministry of Finance. At the field
level the Direction Regionale des Eaux et Forets (DREFS) in each
province involved in the project would be in charge of local
execution, co-ordination and participation with the local
population and other local authorities. At national level, the
national Council for the Environment would provide overall policy guidance.
6.      Project Sustainability:
AEFCS has coordinated preparation of a comprehensive strategy and
investment plan for Morocco's protected areas and biodiversity with
African Development Bank funding, which was completed in 1996 and
forms the basis for the project. AEFCS is undertaking the
administrative steps necessary to establish the legal status of the
new areas proposed as National Parks in the strategy, and has
incorporated in its planning for the parks the principle of working
together with the local communities. It has established at central
level a nature Conservation Unit which would coordinate
implementation of the project.
The project would build on ongoing programs to ensure that the best
use is made of relevant experience. Experience from an ongoing
Bank-financed Forest Development Project has indicated that
counterpart funds are generally made available. The project will
use existing staff of the AEFCS and additional staff required
should be minimal. Existing staff, however, will need to be re-
deployed and trained. Project interventions will be designed to
minimize incremental recurrent costs. For each park resource
mobilization plans will be prepared, with the participation of
local communities.
7.      Lessons learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement:
The main relevant lessons are:
-- prospects for sustainable improvements in natural resource
management require a decentralized approach to
implementation, ownership and participation by local
communities; and detailed planning at field level;
- 3 -



-- implementation experience is better where project
objectives and design are simple and well-focused. These
lessons will be incorporated into project design. The
proposed project is the first GEF-financed Biodiversity
Project for Morocco.
8.      Rationale for GEF Involvement:
The Government has formally requested Bank assistance in GEF grant
funding to implement its protected area management strategy. The
project would support Morocco in strengthening natural resource and
environmental management, one of the four priority objectives of
the Country Assistance Strategy. The project would build on the
experience gained with other Bank-administered GEF financed
protected area management projects in the region, including those
in Algeria, Jordan, Turkey and Romania. GEF funding may also help
to analyze additional support for implementation for the protected
area strategy. More broadly, the Bank has a substantial experience
in participatory approaches and is engaging in close dialogue with
the Moroccan authorities on decentralization. It also has a long
involvement and close working relationship with the principal
implementing agency.
9.      Poverty Category:
While poverty alleviation is not the principal objective of the
project, preparation and implementation of conservation management
plans in the protected areas will help assure a sustained
livelihood for the people living in and around the parks, many of
who are among the poorest of Morocco's rural population.
10.     Environmental Aspects:
The project would have a positive impact on the environment,
helping to conserve key coastal, mountain, forest , arid and semi-
arid ecosystems in Morocco, increasing public awareness about
biodiversity conservation, and supporting participatory approaches
to sustainable resource management in key protected areas.
Ecosystems restoration and pilot species reintroduction programs
would carefully monitored and any interventions with unintended
negative consequences would be redesigned. The local population
would be closely involved in the planning and implementation of
conservation management plans.
Park infrastructure would be modest, including paths and
appropriately designed recreation areas.
The project has been assigned category C. Given the importance of
the participatory approaches site-specific participation plans,
with implementation monitoring systems, will be established during
project preparation.
11.     Participatory Approach:
-4-



As mentioned above, participation of local communities in planning
and implementation of conservation management plans would be a key
element of project design. The project would build on experience
already gained in participatory approaches under a GTZ-supported
community development program in three National parks, implemented
together with the AEFCS. The community-based natural resource
management project supported by the EU in the Northern Rif would
also provide useful lessons. Local government and NGO leaders would
also be involved. The academic community would also be involved in
the ecosystems monitoring programs.
12.     Project Benefits:
Project objectives would include establishment of a system of
protected areas in Morocco, together with a system of sustainable
ecosystem management, with local populations, of the ecosystems of
these areas. Progress towards the first objective would be measured
and monitored according to the size of protected areas designated
and with management plans under implementation, numbers of skilled
staff, appropriate legal status, and establishment of essential
park equipment and infrastructure. Progress towards the second
would be measured by monitoring changes in key ecosystem and
species indicators over the 1995 baseline. Benefits would comprise,
in addition to ecosystem restoration, increased awareness by the
Moroccan community of the importance of sustainable conservation
management in Morocco, and increased understanding by the regional
and global community of the importance of Moroccan ecosystems and
their linkages with those of other countries.
Contact Point:                 Task Managers
Mrs Yoko Eguchi             Mrs Marjory-Anne Bromhead
The World Bank              The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.          1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.   20433    Washington, D.C.  20433
Tel No.: 202-473-6744       Tel No.: 202-473-2270
Fax No.: 202-477-1609       Fax No.: 202-473-1609
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending September 26, 1997.
- 5 -



