GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT            19917
FACILITY
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
Morocco
Protected Areas -Management Project
Project Document
January2000
THEWORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, andcdepletion of the ozone layer. The.GEF is jointly implemented
b~ith3 United Nations DevelopmentProgramme,the United R\lations Environment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
WVorld Bank
1818 - Street. NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone (202) 473-1816
IFax. (202) 522-3256



Report No. 19917-MOR
Morocco
Protected Areas Management Project
Project Document
January 2000
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 1999)
Currency Unit = MAD
MAD = US$0.101
US$1 = MAD 9.92
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD           French Development Agency/Agencefrancaise de developpement
BNDB          National Biodiversity DatabaselBanque nationale de donnees sur la biodiversite
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy/Strategie d'assistance au pays
DREF          Regional Directorate of Forestry and Water/Direction regionale des eaux etforets
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessments/Etude d'impact environnemental
ENFI          National Forestry School of Engineers/Ecole nationaleforestiere d'ingenieur
EU            European Union/Union europeenne
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization/Organisation des Nations Unies pour / 'alimentation et I 'agriculture
FFEM          French (Global Enviromnental Facility/Fonds Fran,ais pour 1 'environnement mondial
FMR           Financial Management Report/Rapport de gestion du projet
FMS           Financial Management System/Systeme de gestionfinanciere
GEF           Global Environmental Facility/Fonds mondialpour 1 'environnement
GIS           Geographic Information System/Systeme d'information geographique
IGF           Audit Department of the Ministry of Finance lInspection Generale des Finances
ITREF         Royal W'ater and Forestry Institute for Technicians/Institut royal des techniciens des eaux etforets
GOM           Government of Morocco/Gouvemement du Maroc
GTZ           German Technical Assistance Agency/Gesellschaftfir Technische Zusammenarbeit
LACI          Loan Administrative Change Initiative
MADRPM        Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Marine Fisheries
Ministere de I 'agriculture, du developpement rural et des peches maritimes
MOF           Ministry of Finance/Ministere des Finances
MWF           Ministry of Water and Forestry/Ministere charge des eaux etforets
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization/Organisation non-gouvernementale
PIP           Project Implemnentation Plan/Plan d'execution du projet
PDD           Community Development Plans IPlan de developpement de Douar
PMIR          Project Management ReportlRapport de gestion du projet
PMU           Project Management Unit/Cellule de gestion du projet
SEGMA         Autonomous Administrative Unit for Forestry Products Development
Service d'Etat gere de maniere autonome pour la valorisation de produitsforestiers
SIBE          Sites of Ecological and Biological Interest/Site d'interet biologique et ecologique
SOE           Statement of Expenditures/Releve de depenses
STAP          Scientific Technical Advisory Panel/Panel consultatifscientifique et technique
TGR           Kingdom National Treasury/Tre'sorerie Generale du Royaume
UNDP          United Nations Development Program/Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement
UNEP          United Nations Environment Program/ Programme des Nations Unies pour l'Environnement
UNESCO        United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'education, la science et la culture
Vice President:         Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:       Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:  Salah Darghouth/Doris Koehn
Task Leader:            Laurent Msellati



Kingdom of Morocco
Protected Areas Management Project (GEF)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT ..........                        ..................1................................. 
A.   Project Development Objectives ............................................................. 2
1.   Project development objectives and key performance indicators .                              ........................................... 2
B.   Strategic Context .............................................................                                            2
1.   Sector-related country assistance strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ..................... 2
2.   Main sector issues and government strategy .............................................................                3
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ........................................... 4
C.   Project Description Summary .............................................................                                  4
1.   Project components ............................................................. 4
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................................ 6
3.   Benefits and target population .......................................                                                  6
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements .....................................                                     7
D. Project Rationale ...................................... 9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.                                                                9
2.   Major related projects financed by the bank and/or other development agencies                                          10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .11
5. Value added of bank support in this project .11
E. Summary Project Analysis ...1....................  
. Economic analysis .11
2. Financial analysis .11
3. Technical analysis .12
4. Institutional analysis .12
5. Social analysis .12
6. Environmental assessment .12
7. Participatory approach .12
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................                                                                        13
1. Sustainability ..........................                                                                                13
2. Critical risks ..........................                                                                                13
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................... 14
1. Negotiations conditions .......................... 14
2.  Board Presentation Conditions .......................... 14
3.  Effectiveness Conditions .......................... 14
4. Others ..........................                                                                                        15
H. Readiness for Implementation ..........................                                                                     15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .16



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary & Key Monitoring Indicators
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description and Project Area
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Incremental Costs and Global Environment Benefits
Annex 5.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6.     Financial Management System
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in the Project File
Annex 9.     Social Analysis
Annex 10.    Status of Bank Group Operations in Morocco
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance
Annex 12.    Technical Analysis
Map          Morocco - Project Areas for the GEF Protected Areas Management Project (IBRD 30229)



Kingdom of Morocco
Protected Areas Management Project (GEF)
PROJECT APPRAiSAL DOCUMENT
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Date: January 5, 2000                                Task Team Leader: Laurent Msellati
Country Director: Christian Delvoie                  Sector Manager/Director: Salah Darghouth/Doris Koehn
Project ID: MA-PE-48314                              Program Objective Category: EN
Sector: Environment/Biodiversity                    Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: GEF GRANT                        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data             [   Loan    [    Credit   [    Guarantee  [X1  Other [Grant]
For Loans/Credits/Others: Grant
Amount: SDR 7.7 Million (US$10.5 Million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency     [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): N/A        [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: N/A
Commitment fee: N/A
Service charge: N/A
Financing plan (US$M):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
GEF                                                       5.4                5.1             10.5
Government                                                4.1                0.0              4.1
Beneficiaries                                             1.1                0.0              1.1
Total       10.6                5.1             15.7
Beneficiary: Kingdom of Morocco
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Water and Forestry (Ministere charge des eaux etforets, MWF)
Estimated disbursements
(Bank FY/US$M):                  2000      2001       2002      2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual    0.50      1.00       2.10      2.70       2.50      1.20      0.50
Cumulative    0.50      1.50       3.60      6.30       8.80     10.00     10.50
Project implementation period:   Expected effectiveness date:          Expected closing date:
6 years                          April 30, 2000                        June 30, 2006.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 2
Kingdom of Morocco                                                        Protected Areas Management Project
A.    Project Development Objectives
1.    Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Strategic Objective of the project is to contribute to sustainable development in Morocco by conserving its
natural resources and biodiversity. The project's specific development objectives are:
* to improve conservation of globally significant ecosystems and species in Morocco. Achievement of this
objective would be measured through establishing a monitoring and evaluation system of Moroccan protected
areas for measuring incidence and recovery of key ecosystems and species in selected sites;
* to contribute to the establishment of a system of protected areas in Morocco. Achievement of this objective
would be measured through the implementation, with the participation of local communities, of conservation
management plans in the National parks and reserves included in the project; and
*  to strengthen the institutional capacity for sustainable conservation management in Morocco. Achievement of
this objective would be measured by the number of Ministry of Water and Forestry (MWF) staff trained in
participatory conseivation management, and the monitoring of key indicators defined in the monitoring and
evaluation system.
Secondary objectives include increasing public awareness of and support to sustainable conservation management,
and creation of a base for sustainable ecotourism development in the future. Key performance indicators are given
in Annex 1.
B.    Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related country assistance strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: R97-2     Date of latest CAS discussion: January 30, 1997
The proposed project would support Morocco in strengthening its natural resource and environmental management
agenda, one of the four priority objectives specified in the current CAS. The proposed operation would also
contribute broadly to the completion and implementation of the Envirornmental Action Plan (November 1998),
prepared by the Government of Morocco (GOM), with the assistance of UNDP, using participatory approaches.
GEF Operational Strategy/Program Objectrve Addressed by the Project:
The proposed project complies with GEF operational objectives in the area of biodiversity conservation. It
addresses the four GEF Operational Programs in the Biodiversity focal Area: OP 1 (Arid and Semi-Arid), OP 2
(Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems), OP 3 (Forest Ecosystems) and OP 4 (Mountain Ecosystems). Pilot
sites that are located in the respective biomes and ecosystems were selected during project preparation.
Morocco has ratified the following major international environmental conventions and agreements addressing the
protection of natural habitats and related species - CITES (1973); UNESCO World Heritage (1975); Ramsar
Convention (1980); Bonn Convention (1983); Barcelona Convention with its related UNEP/Mediterranean Action
Plan and protocol regarcling special protected areas (1983); Desertification Convention (1996); and the Biological
Diversity Convention (1996). GEF has also been active in supporting several biodiversity conservation projects in
Mediterranean countries, including a GEF/UNEP biodiversity strategy study in Morocco, and a GEFIUNDP
regional coastal and wetlands conservation project primarily focussing on capacity building and pilot components
for a limited number of sites.
The proposed project is designed to support the following articles of the Biological Diversity Convention:
* Article 6 - General measures for conservation and sustainable use (conservation management plans for selected
sites of biological and ecological interest);



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 3
Kingdom of Morocco                                                         Protected Areas Management Project
* Article 7 - Identification and monitoring;
* Article 8 - In situ conservation (strengthened protected areas and environmentally sustainable development
adjacent to protected areas, rehabilitation and restoration of fragile ecosystems);
*  Article 11 - Incentive measures (participatory programs implemented with local populations);
* Article 13 - Public education and awareness (improved public awareness on nature protection).
The proposed project will fill a key gap in biodiversity conservation in the region by supporting conservation
management in a country which is the second most biologically diverse in the Mediterranean.
2.    Main sector issues and government strategy:
Biodiversity Value in Morocco. Morocco is outpaced in species and habitat diversity in the Mediterranean region only
by Turkey.
* Because of its location and topography, on both the Atlantic and Mediterranean coasts, Morocco faces extremes in
climate, with negligible rainfall in the Sahara to the South and precipitation up to 2,000 mm in the Northern
mountains, with altitudes up to 4,000 m and permanent snow cover. There is a rich variety of habitats and
species, and 39 major ecosystem types, ranging from mountain and lowland forests, grasslands and wetlands to
coastal lagoons and marine environments (See also Annex 12 for a fuller description of Morocco's ecosystems).
* There are an estimated 4,000 species of vascular plants, over 20% of which are endemic. Morocco is the richest
country in the Mediterranean in terms of fauna, including 550 vertebrates, with 101 mammalian species and 22
endemic species of reptiles and amphibians. Thirty species of birds, including the bald ibis (Geronticuseremita),
the slender billed curlew (Numenius tenuirostris) and the Lammergeier (Gyptae barbu) are endangered; and 31
species of reptiles are threatened or endangered. Despite this, less than 1% of Morocco's surface currently has
some form of active protection regime. The principal threats to biodiversity are habitat transformation and
degradation through conversion for agriculture, urban expansion and industrial or tourism development. In
addition, approximately 70% of Morocco's poorest population (49% of total population) lives in rural areas,
increasing pressure on natural resources. The population of the mountainous areas, which are the richest in
biodiversity, is the poorest of all.
Sector Issues. The main sector issue is how best to promote improved sustainable natural resources and environmental
management while involving the local populations dependent on these resources.
Government Strategy. The Moroccan authorities are aware of Morocco's natural resource potential and the threats to
sustainable management.
* In 1996, the MWF completed a comprehensive Strategy for Protected Areas with African Development Bank
funding. This study has served as the basis for the design of the proposed project. The strategy proposed a
network of 8 national parks and 150 other sites of ecological and biological interest (SIBEs/reserves) covering
about 3% of Morocco's land area. In the 20 years within which the strategy would be implemented, the objective
is to have at least 85% of the major threatened ecosystems under sustainable management. The strategy stresses
the importance of integrating conservation, utilization and sustainable development. The Protected Areas Strategy
may also be seen within the context of three other major studies completed recently, a Forestry Development Plan,
which emphasizes sustainable forest management with the participation of local populations, a Watershed
Management Plan, which focuses on addressing watershed degradation issues, also with local populations, and a
Biodiversity study, prepared by the State Secretariat for Environment.
Institutional responsibilities for protected areas are clear in Morocco. While the State Secretariat of Environment
has responsibility for overall environmental policy, responsibility for management of protected areas is with the
Nature Protection Service in MWF. The Ministry has a well-established organization at the central, regional and
local levels, and a staff of over 7,000.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 4
Kingdom of Morocco                                                         Protected Areas Management Project
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will assist the Government of Morocco (GOM) in achieving its objective of sustainable development by
assisting with the establis!hment and management of a network of national parks and reserves and fostering a
partnership between the population in the area and the parks' administration. The proposed project would strengthen
the capacity of the M'WF to plan, implement, regulate and coordinate biodiversity conservation at local and national
levels. It would also build on and complement ongoing activities funded by other donors, and would link these
individual programs into a national approach. Over the long term, sustainable resource management will contribute to
the livelihood of local populations and create a basis for ecotourism. Detailed planning and implementation at the
local level, with a decentralized approach and flexible management, are indispensable requirements for the
participatory approach to succeed.
Due to limited resources and the need to achieve "results on the ground" the project will be limited to three national
parks (SIBE/Parcs), namely Toubkal, Al Hoceima and Eastern High Atlas National Park, all three of global
significance, and ten reserves maximum (SIBE/Reserves).
Other Financing Agencies. In Morocco, numerous multilateral and bilateral programs are being implemented in the
field of protected areas management. The German cooperation (GTZ) have been working in Souss Massa National
Parks on the Atlantic Coast south of AgadiT, for the past six years. The European Union (EU) will implement a
management plan in the Talassemtane National Park, in the Rif, which includes globally important forest ecosystems,
such as fir forests (Abies marocana) of the Rif. Preservation of forest ecosystems, management of fauna, such as the
Barbary macaque, and sylvo-pastoral rehabilitation need to be undertaken urgently. The French Development Agency
(AFD), partly under the French GEF (Fond francais pour 1'environnement mondialiFFEM) will fund activities in
Ifrane National Park. Ifrane includes globally important forest ecosystems, such as the Atlantic and Atlas cedar, oak
and juniper forests which are threatened by human pressure and include high national-level endemism because of the
large and diverse floral associations. UNDP-GEF, are identifying a project in the reserve ofJebel Saghro where they
will apply biodiversity management and monitoring, directly implicating the local communities. They have also
identified a project in Southern Morocco focusing on transhumance and its role in ecosystem conservation. In Tazekka
National Park, north of Fez, the Italian Cooperation/FAO are assisting with community-based conservation
management. The Regional Coastal and Wetlands conservation project (financed by UNDP - GEF- AFDIFFEM) will
be concerned with three littoral Moroccan SIBEs. The IBRD-financed Second Forestry Project assisted with provision
of basic infrastructure (sign-posts, small information centers) in Tazzeka, Toubkal and Sous-Massa.
C.    Project Description Summary
1.    Project components (see Annex 2for detailed description and Annex 3for detailed cost estimates):
Project activities have been grouped into four main components, of which the integrated implementation will enable
the fulfillment of national and local project objectives: (a) strengthening of national implementation capacity;
(b) preparation and implementation of management plans for SIBE/Parks; (c) preparation and implementation of
management plans of SIBEs/Reserves; and (d) public awareness and education.  Through preparation and
implementation of conservation management plans in 3 national parks and up to 10 reserves in Morocco, the project
will help to establish an integrated network of protected areas management. As a large part of the activities will also
be in forests, and broad-based training in conservation management would be provided to forestry staff, the project
will support mainstrearning biodiversity conservation in forest planning and management.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 5
Kingdom of Morocco                                                         Protected Areas Management Project
Cost Incl.    % of      GEF-      % of
Component                    Category         Contingencies    Total   Financing    GEF
(US$M)                (US$M)  Financing
1. National Capacity Building      Institution Building        3.5          22         2.5       71
2. National Parks Management        Physical Works             7.6          48          4.9      64
3. Reserves Management              Physical Works             3.9          25          2.6      67
4. Public Awareness and Education  Institution Building        0.7           5          0.5      75
Total      15.7         100        10.5      67
A brief description of the four components follows:
* Component 1: National Capacity Building (US$3.5 million). This component will contribute to the capacity
* building of personnel in the national parks and reserves in the MWF. The component will support: (a) the training
of park management staff and rangers and MWF staff, including enhanced training of trainers of Moroccan
foresters; (b) a program of scientific studies and monitoring of biodiversity; (c) establishment of a geographic
information system (GIS) and database at central and local levels (BNDB); and (d) technical assistance to support
the Nature Protection Service in project management, monitoring and evaluation, research/protected area
management, and financial reporting and management.
*  Component 2: National Parks Management (S!BE/Parcs) (US$7.6 million). This component will contribute to:
(a) manage and restore globally significant and threatened ecosystems and species in three national parks;
(b) enhance natural resources through ecotourism development; (c) develop and implement sustainable
conservation management plans using a participatory approach (through community development plans or Plans
de developpement de Douars), with appropriate income-earning opportunities for local populations; and (d) the
provision of basic equipment and training for management. The project would first support activities inToubkal
and Al Hoceima National Parks, and depending on the success of these operations and the mid-term
implementation review, it would then support conservation management in the Eastern High Atlas National Park.
- Component 3: Reserves Management (SIBE/Reserves) (US$3.9 million). Ten potential sites have been selected
among the most threatened or important in Morocco. The component includes: (a) preparation of conservation
management plans; (b) management and restoration of ecosystems; (c) promotion of ecotourism; and
(d) implementation of community development plans (PDD) involving local populations which are users of the
natural resources basis. The total number of sites to be included in the project will also depend on the results of
the mid-term review and will not exceed 10.
*  Component 4: Public Awareness and Education (US$0.7 million). The component includes public awareness
activities, in cooperation with NGOs, through: (a) support to production of biodiversity conservation "spot"
programs on television and radio, and (b) support to a small grants prograrn in Al-Hoceima, Toubkal, and Eastern
High Atlas which would assist NGOs and local organizations to promote public understanding of nature
conservation for the communities living in and near the parks, through programs in schools, production of
publicity materials, training and monitoring, and local conservation activities.
Project Area. The project will be implemented in three National Parks (i.e. Toubkal, Al Hoceima, Eastern High Atlas)
and in ten Reserves representative of the country's ecological variety. Regarding the legal framework, Toubkal is the
only National Park (SIBE/Parc) to be legally established; the decrees for designation of the other two parks have been
prepared and are under review. As per the Reserves (SIBE/Rdserve), they do not yet have a legal status except for the
"Arr&e du Ministre charge des Eaux et Forets" relating to hunting bans.
* Toubkal National Park. This park, with an area of 38,000 ha and a buffer zone of 58,000 ha, is located in the
Central High Atlas with altitude varying from 1,500 to 4,167 m. Its rainfall, isolation and altitude contribute to a
wide range of ecosystems, which include at least 145 endemic species and fauna of global importance. This park
includes juniper and oak forest and a varied and unusual flora, including 23 endemic species. It includes large or



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 6
Kingdom of Morocco                                                         Protected Areas Management Project
rare mammals (the aoudad, Ammotragus lervia), and the barbary macaque (Macaca sylvanus), 95 species of
nesting birds, and several threatened or endangered raptors.
* The Eastern High Atlas National Park. With an area of 52,000 ha and an altitude from 1,650m to 3,077m, this
park is subject to both Atlantic and Saharan climatic influences and also has a wide variety of ecosystems. Its
flora is of high biological value, including endemic and/or rare species, and fauna include the. aoudad, Cuvier's
gazelle (Gazella cuvieri), the macaque and probably the striped hyena.
* Al Hoceima National Park. This park is located in the province of Al Hoceima, on the northwestern
Mediterranean coast, and comprises coastal and marine ecosystems. With an area of 31,000 ha and a proposed
buffer zone of 46,000 ha, and an altitude ranging from sea level to 747m, its marine life and bird life are of global
importance; it is a refuge for many rare and endangered marine (red coral) and bird species such as the osprey
(Pandion haliateus) and Audouin's gull (LarusAuouinii) and is threatened by possible future coastal development.
This park also includes 2,500 ha of marine reserves.
*  Reserves. The reserves (SIBE/Reserve) targetted under the project cover five main ecosystems, Rif, Middle-Atlas,
High Atlas, Saharan Atlas and the littoral Atlantic Sahara. The four SIBEs to be addressed in the first years of the
project include Jebel Moussa (near Al-Hoceima), Aghbar and Tamga (near Toubkal) and Khniffis (on the Atlantic
coast). Jebel Moussa includes many endemic species and is a key resting place for small migrating birds; Aghbar
and Tamgar have rare pine and cypress forests, a wide variety of mammals and birds and a high degree of
endemism, while Khnifiss, on the southern Atlantic, is a Ramsar site with varied aquatic and terrestrial
ecosystems, mammals, birds and invertebrates.
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As reflected in its objectives, description and implementation arrangements, the project will contribute to policy and
institutional reforms by helping to:
*  incorporate biodiversity conservation into forest management;
*  promote participatory approaches in conservation management by implementing models for participatory
conservation management - for replication in Morocco and regionally; and
*  enhance public awareness in conservation management.
3.    Benefits and target population:
Due to the global importance of the biodiversity and the project's national dimension, the benefits will extend well
beyond the populations directly involved.
*  At the Global Leve,l. Global benefits will accrue from sustainable conservation management of the national parks,
including some unique flora and fauna in at least 30 different ecosystems. The results of this project could
contribute to models of conservation in sites not only in the country, but also to regional initiatives, since the
project would assist Morocco in fostering links and collaboration to benefit from conservation initiatives in the
adjacent countries.
*  National Benefits. The project will help build the national capacity to implement the first phase of the national
protected areas strategy over an initial five-year period. The MWF will benefit from the institutional component,
through training, and establishment of an integrated geographic information system which will address the issues
of priority conservation planning and management. Participating NGOs will also benefit from strengthened
institutional capacity to raise public awareness and environmental education, reinforcing the importance of
participation in biodiversity and natural resource management.
*  Local Level. The project will support sustainable conservation management at the local level. It will result in
increased levels of revenue for the participating populations by putting in place activities that will generate
income, while, at the same time, taking into consideration protection of the environment. The project will also



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 7
Kingdom of Morocco                                                       Protected Areas Management Project
sensitize the population in the use of better agricultural and forestry techniques. In addition, the project will
support participation of local communities in project design and implementation. The target population consists of
approximately 150,000 inhabitants in and around the conservation areas. The population make-up in the different
parks is included in Annex 2.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: 6 years, January 1, 2000 - December 31, 2005 (completion date)
Project Implementation
The project would be implemented through the Nature Protection Service in the MWF whose manager (Chef de
service) would have, as Project Director, overall responsibility for the implementation and supervision of the project.
Financial and accounting management will be carried out through a SEGMA. The Project Director would be assisted
by two deputies (adjoints) responsible for financial/procurement and technical aspects, respectively. Consultants (in
management, biodiversity and monitoring/evaluation) would assist with implementing the project. At the central
level, implementation will also be carried out through MWF's other Departments, such as Human Resources and
Budget. Implementation in the different regions will be carried out by the Regional Directorates of Forestry and
Water (DREF), headed by a chief of Parks and Reserves. At the provincial level, the forest rangers in the national
parks or reserves will be responsible for day-to-day work. Staffing plans have been prepared (see PIP) and would not
involve new staff recruitment but instead "redeployment". The population in and near the national parks would
participate in implementation, in particular for the Community Development Plans (PDD).
The Training Service of the MWF would have responsibility for coordinating implementation of the training
component with the principal Moroccan forest training institutes, with training grouped into a limited number of
modules in order to facilitate implementation. Moroccan research institutes would participate in implementation of
the research and eco-systems studies components, with the Institut Scientifque de Rabat taking responsibility for
coordinating the inventory activities to be undertaken in the first year.
The public awareness component would be implemented by NGOs. A national NGO would be contracted to produce
television and radio "spots" highlighting biodiversity conservation issues. Local NGOs would implement the public
awareness activities in the parks of Al Hoceima and Toubkal, and later on in the Eastern High Atlas Park through a
small competitive grants scheme, for which the NGOs would apply. Eligible activities would include community
awareness, education in schools, and local conservation activities. A maximum of three local "umbrella"NGOs would
be responsible for financial management of the grants schemes and would participate in grant selection in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank, as specified in the PIP.
Overall Project Coordination
Coordination, planning and programming, monitoring and supervision activities will be undertaken by the MVWF's
Nature Protection Service. An inter-ministerial Coordination Committee, comprising members of the  MWF,
Ministries of Interior, Tourism, General Affairs, Agriculture, Rural Development and Marine Fisheries, State Secretary
for Environment and the principal research institutes, would meet every six months to discuss any inter-ministerial
issues that may arise. At the local level, activities would be coordinated through the weekly provincial committee
(Comitf technique provincial) meetings which already take place, under the chairmanship of the Wali of the province.
Project Financial Management System (FMS)
The Financial Management System in place in the MWF, implementing agency for the project, is based on principles
and procedures defined by the legal fiamework applicable to the public sector and more specifically to governmental
institutions. The main characteristics of this system are: (a) an accounting system using the cash basis and the outline
of budget components; (b) an annual approved budget for procurement and disbursement closely controlled by the
Ministry of Finance units; (c) a centralization of payments in the National Treasury (TresorerieGenerale du Royaume,
TGR), at both the central and the provincial levels, unless the use of "Caisses de R4gie " or "Services d'Etat Gerd de
mani&re autonome" (SEGMA) is authorized; and (d) a fiduciary responsibility of control of budget execution and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 8
Kingdom of Morocco                                                         Protected Areas Management Project
monitoring assigned to the Finance General Inspectorate (Inspection Generale des Finances/IGE) and Supreme Court
of Audit (Cour des Comptes).
Project implementation, in accordance with World Bank procedures, requires adjustments of the financial management
system of MWF in order to address constraints identified during project preparation, including: (a) lack of a
computerized accounting system; (b) non-official definition writing of the financial management procedures; and
(c) incomplete Management Information System (MIS). MWF is in the process of addressing several of these issues,
but resolution will likely require several years of concerted effort.
In order to address the financial management weaknesses outlined above, an agreed-upon financial management
strengthening plan specific to the project will be implemented. The action plan, which is detailed in Annex 6, includes:
*  Monitoring. Utilization of the existing SEGMA for Forestry Products (SEGMA pour lavalorisation des produits
forestiers) for project budgetary and financial management and designation of required staff including an
"Ordonnateur " an "Agent comptable";
*  Project Management Unit (PMU). Organization of the PMU within the existing Nature Protection Service, and
designation of required staff including the appointment of a qualified accountant and financial officer and regional
coordinators;
*  Accounting. Issuing of: (a) the chart of accounts specific to the project; (b) the Procedures Manual; and (c)
training program for staff involved in project monitoring;
- Management Information System. The Procedures Manual will include a section on the financial management for
the project reflecting an effective internal control system with procedures intended to prevent, detect, correct, and
mitigate the risk of material errors and omissions, and operational inefficiencies.
Disbursements from the GEF Grant would be made under the traditional disbursement procedures as described in
Annex 5. However, the PMU, in close collaboration with the SEGMA, will submit to the Bank a PMR on a quarterly
basis and no later than 45 days after the calendar quarter. The first report including data related to procurement and
disbursement would be transmitted to the Bank no later than October 31, 2000. The PMR acceptable to the Bank will
be transmitted to the Bank no later than May 15, 2001, and has to be validated by the Bank no later than Junte 30, 2001,
after the assessment of the fmancial management system and certification of operational efficiency of the system. The
action plan to enable the preparation of PMRs is described in Annex 6.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
Progress reports, as well as Project Management Reports (PMR), will be prepared by the Nature Protection Service
from information provided by the SEGMA. The need for specific software applications for consolidating project
accounts and preparing the financial statements has been incorporated into project design. Project funds would be
disbursed through the "SEGMA for forestry products" attached to MWF, in order to facilitate payments. Annex 6
describes the current system and accounting arrangements, and makes recommendations for improvement. The action
plan, as referred to in the above paragraph and aiming to build a financial management capacity for the project within
the PMU, has been discussed and accepted by Moroccan authorities during project negotiations.
Each year, independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will audit the project accounts maintained and prepared at
PMU level. During negotiations, it was agreed that this assignment could be carried out by the "InspectionGenerale
des Finances" (IGF). Audit reports, including statements of expenditure and special accounts reconciliation, will be
submitted annually to the Bank within six months of the end of Govermnent's fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
Monitoring of the project will be divided into two: (a) scientific monitoring and evaluation, which will allow the
development of biological indicators and the analysis of the effects of management measures used by the project on the
natural resources; and (b) monitoring of project physical and financial implementation, taking into account project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 9
Kingdom of Morocco                                                         Protected Areas Management Project
progress. A consultant to the Nature Protection Service would assist with monitoring and evaluation, including
training of project staff. Monitoring and evaluation will be in accordance with the indicators presented in Annex 1, in
particular biodiversity impact monitoring indicators. The PMU will be responsible for the preparation of the progress
reports, with the help of the monitoring and evaluation consultant, staff and advisors, and the Director of the
SEGMA for the financial aspects. The reports will be prepared every three months and would include the monitoring
indicators. In addition, the PMRs will serve as the basis for the preparation of an annual activity report, covering the
calendar year (January 1 - December 31), and which will be sent to the World Bank prior to January 31 of the
following year.
The project has been designed to have an in-depth progress review at the beginning of the third year of
implementation. The review would assess progress and redesign project elements as necessary. Depending on
progress, a decision would be made when and how to expand the project to the other sites (Eastern High Atlas National
Park and up to six reserves).
D.    Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The different scenarios that were considered but rejected are summarized as follows:
* Focus on all 8 national parks and 150 reserves. This scenario was not selected due to the limited resources
available to implement a project of this size. In addition, the interest expressed by other financing agencies in
financing at least two of the national parks made it more practical to select a sub-set. The selection of a sub-set
would also allow the development of tangible results and monitoring indicators that, can then be streamlined as
needed before they are replicated to the other national parks. The initial focus on two parks and four reserves also
allows for a phased "learning by doing" approach.
*  Put all the resources in one park. This is the approach that has been followed by various donors who have
intervened in national parks in Morocco. However, this approach would not establish a network of national parks,
nor address the problems of biodiversity degradation in a global manner. It is the objective of this project to pilot
the network structure and then, where applicable, use the results to extend this network to the remaining national
parks and reserves.
*  Centralized rather than decentralized park management.  The centralized approach was abandoned because
projects in Morocco and elsewhere have clearly shown that a decentralized structure is more effective, especially
where management/implementation involves participation of the local populations.
*  GEF - biodiversity conservation in the production landscape. The approach selected was to start working on
public land, create and establish a network of national parks and then, when a better understanding has been
achieved, develop and incorporate the concept of biodiversity conservation in a production landscape. However,
the project will incorporate biodiversity conservation into forests management practices.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 10
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                         Protected Areas Management Project
2.      Major related projectsfinanced by the bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector Problem                                    Project                                Latest Supervision
Implementation       Development
Progress           Objective
Bank-financed
Poverty reduction and integrated rural       Fes-Karia-Tissa (Loan 1602) (Project C, 1979)         N/A                   S
development projects                         Loukkos (Loan 1848) (Project C, 1980)                 N/A                  S
Middle Atlas (Loan 2082) (Project C, 1982)           N/A                  U
Oulmes-Rommani (Loan 2217) (Project C, 1983)         N/A                   S
Forestry development projects, including     Second Forestry Development Project (Loan 3156)         s                   S
watershed management and limited infrastructure   (Project C, 1991)
to Tazzeka, Toubkal and Souss-Massa national
parks
Projects to improve living conditions in rural areas  Second Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3262)  s                s
through electrification                      (Project C, 1991)
Road construction projects to improve access to  Secondary, Tertiary and Rural Roads Project        S                   S
social services and markets for rural poor   (Loan 3901) (Project 0, 1995)
Potable water supply projects in rural areas  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project              S                  S
(Loan 4254) (Project 0, 1998)
Watershed and natural resource management    Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project             S                   S
projects through participatory approaches    (Loan 4424) (Project 0, 1999)
Projects to strengthen environmental institutions,   Environment Management Project (Loan 3647)     U                   U
legislation and information systems          (Project C, 1994)
Other Development Agencies
Rural poverty and natural resource management    EU - Participatory development of forestry zones in          N/A
the Province of Chaouen - Talassemtane National
Park (Project P)
Participatory development of forestry zones  AFD - Participatory management of forestry zones in              N/A
Ifrane and Ifrane Natural Park (Project P)
Natural resource management                  Italian Cooperation/FAO: Taza Natural Resource                   N/A
Management - Tazekka National Park (Project 0)
Participatory natural resource and national park  GTZ - Conservation Management - Souss-Massa,                N/A
management, species re-introduction          Toubkal and Tazekka National Parks (Project 0)
IP/DO Ratings: [HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), N/A (Not Available)]
Project Cycle: [P (Planned), 0 (Ongoing), C (Completed)]
3.      Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
One of the main lessons learned relates to the importance of involving local communities in natural resources and
biodiversity conservation. Bank and Moroccan experience shows that community involvement is critical. In addition,
experience shows that although the effort needed to ensure adequate participation may be high and the evolution slow,
the benefits in terms of eventual sustainability of investments make it worthwhile to ensure local ownership and
sustainability. Furthermore, participation of the local population must be coupled with awareness campaigns and
training sessions. The project has involved the local population in project preparation resulting in the preparation of
six Douar Development Plans to be implemented in the first year, as part of the conservation management plans.
Experience also emphasizes the importance of providing income-generating activities to the local population
participating in conservation management through provision and upgrading of basic infrastructure, development of
ecotourism, and introduction of better agriculture and forestry. The STAP review indicated strong support for the
project and confirmed the importance of a participatory approach.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 11
Kingdom of Morocco                                                        Protected Areas Management Project
The project uses a decentralized implementation structure, because experience has shown that top-down approaches
are not effective in gaining the commitment of the local population.
4.    Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government, through the MWF, has shown commitment to the implementation of its strategy and has led the
preparation of the project. MWF has pledged its full support in facilitating the transition of the designated "paper7'
parks to fully operational parks and reserves. The Ministry has also shown commitment in having the local population
involved in preparation and implementation. For the purpose of strengthening the participatory approach, the project
will employ a decentralized structure for its implementation. The Ministry has encouraged the participation of NGOs
in the project. It has shown its commitment to good project performance by deploying personnel who have been
involved in the preparation of the biodiversity strategy, and who have experience in implementing Bank projects, such
as the recently closed Bank-financed Forestry II Project (closed June 30, 1998). This will greatly add to the efficacy
with which the project is implemented as well as reinforce capacity not only in the PMU, but also in the Ministry.
5.     Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has considerable international experience in the conservation and management of biodiversity and natural
resources. This experience, including that of GEF, has been taken into account from the beginning in the project
design. The emphasis by the Bank on institutional capacity building will ensure that project implementation will target
all stakeholders, including NGOs and beneficiaries. The Bank is also contributing to other sustainable natural resource
management activities in Morocco (water resources and watershed management) and the proposed project
complements these activities.
E.    Summary Project Analysis
1.    Economic analysis:
Economic rate of return analysis is not usually conducted for GEF biodiversity projects. Annex 4 presents the
incremental cost analysis, which identifies the incremental costs and global benefits of carrying out the project. In
designing the project, cost-effectiveness criteria (minimizing budget impact, maximizing involvement of the local
population, using existing institutions, building on existing studies and experience) were an important feature. The
Government of Morocco has ongoing programns for watershed rehabilitation and sustainable forest management which
would also have broader sustainable natural resource management and carbon sequestration implications. The main
objective of the proposed GEF project is conservation of globally significant ecosystems and species.
2.    Financial analysis:
Financial rate of return analysis is not usually conducted for GEF biodiversity projects. The incremental recurrent costs
of the project were calculated and compared with the present budget of the Ministry of Forests, to confirm whether the
project would impose an undue burden on the Ministry. In 1997-98 the total budget of the Ministry was MAD 540
million (US$54 million). Recurrent costs of the project are estimated at US$270,000 annually, less than 0.5% of the
Ministry's annual budget. These costs do not impose an undue burden on the Ministry and are considered sustainable.
The Ministry, through other programs, is also carrying out studies on options for long-term financial autonomy of
parks and reserves, including the creation of autonomous "SEGMAs" for each park, and perrnitting a portion of
potential entry fees charged to be retained by provincial forestry organizations rather than going directly to the
National Treasury. (The allocation of entrance fees charged to visit cultural monuments whereby portion of the fees is
retained to permit monument maintenance, may serve as a model). GTZ, which has already pursued the "SEGMA"
option in Sous-Massa, will finance a detailed study of the various options during the project implementation period.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                     Page 12
Kingdom of Morocco                                                          Protected Areas Management Project
3.     Technical analysis:
The designs of the main project activities were influenced by: (a) their technical effectiveness to reply to each specific
ecological requirement; (b) their appropriateness for the Moroccan context; and (c) their adaptability to existing
conditions and social acceptability. In addition, the replicability of technologies to areas with similar needs was also
considered. For the SIBEs, the conservation strategy was selected not to be closed and exclusive, but to continue
sustainable use by local populations. The existing technical experience and lessons learned in Morocco and in
neighboring countries were also taken into consideration. Annex 12 provides a technical justification for the project
from the standpoint of ecosystems conservation, while Annex 1 provides key biodiversity monitoring indicators.
4.    Institutional analysis:
The MWF is a long established institution having relevant experience in project implementation, both for the Bank and
other donors. The DREFs, the regional organizations of the MWF, who will be involved in the day-day
implementation of the project also have a long history of project implementation. Although there will be no new
recruitment in the project, staff "redeployment" within the Ministry will be carried out to ensure adequate manpower
for implementation. The project will fund training and technical assistance to enhance biodiversity conservation
capacity in the Ministry, DREFs, and park and reserves personnel.
5.    Social analysis:
Annex 9 provides a social and institutional assessment of the different stakeholders, at local, regional and national
level. Stakeholders include official organizations, the local population, research organizations, the private sector and
NGOs. It also shows how each interest group is implicated in project design and implementation.
6.    Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category      [ JA   [] B   /X7 C
The project has been given a category "C" rating. The project impact will most certainly be positive, as the project
should restore and enhance the seriously degraded environments.
7.    Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: (see Annex 9)
As natural habitats and forest ecosystems, in particular, are a major component of rural livelihoods in Morocco,
sustained support to protected areas management from the local stakeholders has to be established. Morocco has
several years' experience with participatory natural resource management, and the approach is now widely accepted.
Development of the conservation management plans in Toubkal and Al-Hoceima, the initial sites selected, was
undertaken with the local population who have also identified appropriate rural development activities within the PDD.
This approach will be continued and expanded through project implementation.  There has been extensive
collaboration at the national, regional and local levels, between the Ministry of Water and Forestry and the different
groups of beneficiaries including community groups, academic and applied research institutions, tourist organizations,
NGOs and donor agencies during the identification and preparation of the project. This approach is consistent with the
new strategy of the MWF, which emphasizes broad-based participation as a key ingredient in sustainable forestry and
natural resource management. The project would, in tum, contribute to fostering these major emerging changes.
The following management process, based on a participatory approach with three features, will be a core feature of the
implementation phase:
* a clear and common definition of the conservation goals for each protected area;
* the use of multiple zoning, with the allocation of different levels of importance to protection ofbiodiversity values
to different areas including the definition of buffer zones; and
a consensus-building effort through negotiation and extensive local consultation to ensure long-term partnerships
and acceptance of viable protected areas management plans.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 13
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                     Protected Areas Management Project
Other Key Stakeholders:
The project would develop partnerships with locaiNGOs. As NGOs in Morocco have to date been very little involved
in protected areas management, the Small Grant Program, under this project, would promote innovative practice and
dialogue. The project would also involve academic and applied research institutions, local television, newspapers, and
tourist organizations.
F.      Sustainability and Risks
1.     Sustainability:
Project sustainability will depend on the following:
*  participation and commitment of local communities to implement the conservation management plans financed
under the project. This would be assured by the participatory approach employed to prepare the management
plans, together with the complementary investments envisaged in activities which will directly benefit local
communities;
*  continued recurrent cost funding of conservation management through the Ministry of Finance to the MWV. The
recurrent cost implications of the project are modest compared with the overall recurrent budget of the
Administration. No new staff recruitment is envisaged, and past experience has indicated that financing recurrent
costs is not generally a major issue; and
* commitment and capacity of the MWF and associated organizations to continue the work on ecosystems
conservation begun under the project. This would be assured through the capacity-building component and in
particular the broad-based training in conservation management and ecosystems monitoring.
2.      Critical risks:
Risk                        Risk         Risk Minimization Measures
Rating
Project Outputs to    Government's commnitment towards the sustainable  N      Government is commnitted to providing a
Development Objectives management of protected areas dwindles.                substantial 25% of project costs during the 5-
year implementation period, and to providing
100% of the operating costs thereafter.
Complex administrative and budgetary procedures  H      The financial and accounting management of
hinder the implementation of participatory activities.  the Project will be carried out through an
autonomous agency (SEGMA).
The capacity of the Nature Protection Service at the  M  The project includes a strong training program
central level remains limited.                          and additional personnel is allocated to the
project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 14
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                        Protected Areas Management Project
Risk                         Risk         Risk Minimization Measures
Rating
Project Components to   Lack of competent field staff to efficiently implement  S  Staff reallocation prograrn of DREF and a
Outputs                the project.                                              strong training program.
Rigid financing mechanisms for village associations  S    A manual describing the application
and NGOs.                                                 procedures for subsidies for associations and
NGOs, including selection criteria, will be
designed.
Local communities committed to short-term revenue  M      Local communities will participate in the
maximization rather than to long-term conservation        preparation and implementation of
management.                                               conservation management plans.
Inadequate collaboration between Government and    S      A limited number of conventions will be
research institutions.                                    established and a scientific body will monitor
the program.
The biodiversity database is inacessible and not   M      The project includes the set-up of an interactive
updated.                                                  database with a network of partners, under the
coordination of a relevant central institution.
Overall Risk Rating                                                       M
[Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)]
G.      Main Loan Conditions
1.      Negotiations:
The following actions were taken prior to Negotiations:
*  Nomination of two additional staff  (a national parks management specialist and a financial management
specialist) to the Nature Protection Service.
*   Allocation of sufficient office space, in one location, to the Nature Protection Service.
*   Agreement on the financial management plan and on proposals to assure adequate financial management.
*   Establishment of the National Coordination Committee.
*  Preparation of the bidding documents for the technical assistance and training components, and for the first year's
research investment activities.
2.      Board Presentation:
Prior to Board presentation, the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was submitted to the Bank.
3.      Effectiveness:
* The "Arrete" concerning the financial and accounting organization of the "SEGMA pour la valorisation des
produits forestiers" has been revised to the satisfaction of the Bank, so as to enable the Bank to disburse project
funds.
*  As this is a Grant, presentation to the Bank of the legal opinion of the "SecretariatGeneral du Gouvernement" is
not necessary.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 15
Kingdom of Morocco                                                       Protected Areas Management Project
4.    Others [listed according to the Grant Agreement Standards]
Financial and Audits:
* Standard provisions on audits.
*  The Government of Morocco will open, and keep, with the "Tresorerie generale du Royaume" a special account in
Moroccan Dirhams, under conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Management:
* A Procedures Manual, acceptable to the Bank, will be established, according to PIP terms of reference, no later
than September 2000. Preparation of this Procedures Manual can be funded through the project.
* A PMU, consisting of a project director, assisted by a technical team, including two technical specialists and two
support staff, will be established and maintained during the project life.
* The financing and accounting management of the project will be undertaken by the SEGMA.
* Standard provisions on the Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR).
Project Implementation:
* The PMU will prepare, at the beginning of each year, an annual work plan for project implementation which will
be sent to the Borrower for review and comments before March 31.
* At the regional level, the project will be implemented by the DREF. For each of the three national parks, a park
manager will be nominated, asssisted by at least two technical specialists and forest rangers, whose number and
qualifications will be satisfactory to the World Bank.
* At the community level, two community workers (1 "animateur "and 1 "animatrice ") will be recruited for each of
the three parks.
*  The public awareness component will be carried out by the NGOs in accordance with the procedures described in
the Procedures Manual.
* The PDD will be implemented through community participation according to procedures which will be detailed
in the Procedures Manual. The procedures will include direct subsidies and a community contribution, in cash or
kind, of at least 30% of the investment costs.
H.    Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [X] NA
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. (See G. l(d)).
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised as realistic and satisfactory.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 16
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                 Protected Areas Management Project
I.     Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]    /
t Task Leader: Laurent Msellati
[signature]                                                 /    , 
Sector Manager/Director: Salah DarghouthtDoris Koehn       ,     /
[signature]
Country Director: Christian DelvoiR



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Annex I
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                        Page I of 4
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Supervision
CAS Objective
Contribute to the sustainable    * Number of protected areas under   * Annual report of     * Implementation of the
development of Morocco through     sustainable management             activities by MWF       national strategy for
ensuring the conservation of its                                                              protected areas
natural resources and its
biodiversity.                    * Extent of protected areas (% of                          * The project contributes to
national territory)                                        the development of local
populations
Project Development Objectives
* Improve conservation of globally  * Regeneration of vegetative cover  * Reports on the      e The Government
significant ecosystems and species   * Reestablishment of the animnal  scientific monitoring  maintains its commitment
in Morocco                         populations                        of biodiversity in      to sustainable
* Incorporation of the results of   protected areas         management of protected
scientific research in the protected                       areas
area management plans for key
ecosystems
* Contribute to the establishment of a  * Implementation of the management   * Report of activities of   * Flexible and appropriate
system of protected areas in       plans in 3 national parks and 10   MWF                     management procedures
Morocco                            reserves                          * Minutes of the         are in place
* Reduction in the exploitation of the  meetings of the local
resources in the project areas with  committees (Douars)
the participation of the local   * Bank supervision
communities                        reports and audit     * The Nature Protection
* Slowing down of processes that     reports                Service at the central level
affect biodiversity adversely                             is reinforced to ensure
efficient management of
the project
* Strengthen the institutional capacity  * Training of personnel in the parks    * Report of activities of
for sustainable conservation       and reserves and MWF in protected  MWF
management in Morocco              area management                   * Bank supervision
* Establishment of an ecosystems     reports and audit
information and monitoring system  reports
* Implementation of a program for
increased public awareness of the
importance of biodiversity
conservation



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Annex I
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                         Page 2 of 4
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators           Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Supervision
Project Outputs
* Forestry Administration        * Management and monitoring tools in  * Project activity reports    * Assignment of forestry
responsible for managing         place                                of MWF                    needed for project
protected areas strengthened and   * Local financing mechanisms                                 management at the
management options validated     established for village associations    * Local Forest Service  central and regional
* Forestry training institutions offer  * Number of hours of training   activity reports (DREFs    levels
courses in protected area        provided at ENFI and ITREF           and provincial services)
management                                                                                    * Adequate training of
* Bank supervision         technical personnel
* Scientific monitoring of the    * Number of scientific studies        reports
biodiversity and ecosystems of  * Database and GIS in use                                     * Mechanisms to permit the
primary sites of biological and                                      * Project Activity reports    project to subsidize
ecological interest carried out                                       of ENFI and ITREF         NGOs and village
* National awareness cainpaigni and  * Number of TV and radio spots                              associations are in place
communcatlons prograr n up  and  * Number of publT c meetings   .       Standard contract for
cmnic        s     r       a       Number of puli moetings            research activities     * Effective participation of
runnmng                         * Number of NGOs mobilized                                      the local communities in
.   .                                        *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Scientific publications  the preparation and
* Conservation site management of  * Judicial statutes approved        iStplementation ofthe
the 3 parks is effective        * On-site management structures      * Service contracts with   park management plans
established for parks               NGOs
* Management plans being                                      * Adequate collaboration
implemented                        * Official Journals        among the scientific
* Infrastructures created                                      institutions for the
. Administra.ive procedures.eLegal/administrative instruments for   * Park management plans    management of the
* Administrative procedures       oLegal/admninistrative instruments for                         research program
governing the creation and       the creation of the reserves are   * Development Plans for
management of the 10 reserves is    established                       reserves                * The national databank on
established                     * Number of development and                                     biodiversity (BNDB) is
management plans prepared          * Reports and minutes of    accessible and functional
* Number of field agents trained and  meetings with local
assigned                            communities
* Community participation for the    * Number of village associations  * Community
3 parks and 10 reserves is well  established                          development plans
established                     * Number of PDD in operation          (PDD)
* Level of subsidies granted
Project Components
* National capacity building      * Management support: US$ 1.0 M     * Project activity reports    * MWF recognized as
* Training: US$ 0.9 M                 of MWF                   having primary
* Database: US$ 0.9 M                                          responsibility for
* Scientific monitoring: US$ 0.7 M  * Bank spn. Reports        management of protected
areas
* National parks: management of    *Al Hoceima: US$ 2.4 M             a Documents on            * Sufficient competent
the 3 park                      * Haut Atlas Oriental: US$ 2.1iM      procurement and           persocinne inmplaeatenth
* Toubkal: USS 3.1 M                  disbursement             pearks and reserves
* Reserves development            * US$ 3.9 M
* Public awareness and ecducation    * US$ 0.7 M                      * Audit reports           * Physical and financial
resources are adequate



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Anmex I
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                      Page 3 of 4
List of Monitoring Indicators
On the basis of the project documents prepared by MWF with the support of the BCEOM-Agroconcept group, the
following performance objectives were retained for each of the three development objectives of the project. Detailed
tables are presented, as examples, in the Project Implementation Plan to enable the monitoring and evaluation
specialist, to be recruited by the project, to establish a simple and realistic system to measure in the medium termn,
project performance, results and impact.
Objective N 1: Improve conservation of globally significant ecosystems and species
The scientific monitoring system put in place by the project will allow the measurement of impact of conservation of
ecosystems and on the species of global importance, and biodiversity in general in Morocco. This system will be
supported by scientific studies which will be carried out in the framework of the project and which will serve to
augment the national database. A series of 13 key performance indicators presented in the table below will be utilized
in the context of conservation management. These indicators were reclassified under three categories: (a) indicators of
vegetative cover; (b) indicators of increasing animal populations; and (c) indicators specific to the marine environment.
Indicators of regenerating vegetative cover
*  Samples that will permit the evaluation of the specific vegetative diversity (1), and to estimate the vegetative
biomass (in particular, the species of "sapides") (2), at the level of managed land and non-managed land;
*  For a certain number of tree species for which there exists a problem of regeneration at the local level (Quercus
rotundifolia, Cedrus atlantica, Juniperus phoenicea) or national level (Juniperus thurifera, Cupressus atlantica),
the rate of regeneration (natural or assisted) will be evaluated (3)
Indicators of increasing the local animal populations, with an estimate of their evolution
*  Evolution of the populations of Aoudad, by index (utilization of feces) and, where possible, calibration (4), and
monitoring of the area of distribution (samples and regrouping the observations) (5)
-  Counting of gazelle populations (6) by multiple observers
*  Evolution of the populations of the Barbary ape, in particular through the survival rate of the young of each year
and the demographic structure of the groups (7)
*  Monitoring of the availability of food for the ungulates (already available through the vegetative monitoring data)
(2) and of the Barbary ape (samples by vegetative strata, analysis of the upper strata and oak reproduction ) (8)
*  Evolution of the number of reproducing pairs of day raptors (9), ospreys and Audouin's gull (11)
*  Samples of avifauna (10) in managed land managed and in non-managed land
In the marine environment, the indicators of specific importance (global and rare species), for flora and fauna (12 et
13) have already been established.
Objective N 2: Contribute to the establishment of a system of protected areas in Morocco
In the 150 sites of biological interest (SIBEs) identified in the Strategy for Protected Areas, the project will limit itself
to 3 national parks: Toubkal, Al Hoceima et Haut Atlas Oriental, all three having globally important biodiversity, and
10 reserves being representative of the diverse ecosystems of Morocco. The following indicators will permit the
evaluation of the project results:
* Putting in place the three management plans in the national parks
*  Preparation of ten development plans for the reserves
*  Establishment of the Community Development Plans (PDD) with the collaboration of the local user populations
(number of PDDs).
Objective N0 3: Strenthen the institutional capacity for sustainable conservation management
The achievement of this objective will be measured by the success of the training program in protected area
management of the personnel and field staff of the MWF as well as the systems used at the central and local levels for
the scientific monitoring of biodiversity and the ecosystems. For each of the activities financed under the project, the
following key indicators have been retained:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Annex I
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                   Page 4 of 4
Training program
* Establishment of seven ongoing training modules (% of DREF personnel trained - Number of staff-day)
* Integration of the modules of protected area management with the training courses offered by ITREF
and that of ENFI (Number of staff-day)
Research program
*  Implementation of scientific monitoring studies in the project sites (3 surveys/year)
* Establishment of 6 programs in biodiversity and ecology
*  Implementation of studies on the preservation of biodiversity (number of maps)
Database prog;ram
* Establishment of a databank on biodiversity (BDNB)
* Establishment of a GIS (3 maps/reserve)
Training and public awareness program
*  Written, audio, and video presentations completed (30)
*  Educational programn for schools is put in place (40 facilitators mobilized/year and 200 classes equipped)
* A grants program aimed at financing projects of NGOs is put in place (20 projects approved/year)
Indicators of Biodiversity
Toubkal    Al Hoceima    Haut Atlas             RESERVES
N.P          N.P        Oriental N.P
1. Specific vegetative diversity             X             X              X         All the reserves (except,
2. Estimation of the vegetative biomass                                             according to the results of
(in managed and non-managed land)                                               the development plans:
Jbel Moussa, Chekhar,
Khnifiss)
3. Rate of regeneration in managed land    (Juniperus    (Quercus   (Cedrus         Juniperus phoenicea (Jbel
thurifera)    rotundifolia)   atlantica)   Krouz) ; Juniperus
thurifera (Jbel Bou
Iblane); Cupressus
atlantica (Arhbar)
4. Estimation of the aoudad population       X                            X         Jbel Krouz, and possibly
5. Area of distribution                                                             Jbel Bou naceur
6. Gazelle coumt                                                       (Gazella     Chekhar, Jbel Krouz (G.
cuvieri)    dorcas et G. Cuvieri)
7. Demographics of the Barbary ape           X                            X         Jbel Moussa, Bou Hachem,
8. Food availability of the Barbary ape                                             Tichoukt, Tamga
9. Reproducing pairs of day raptors          X             X              X         All reserves (except
Khnifiss)
10. Avifauna sample (land managed and        X             X              X         All reserves
non-managed)                                                                    .
11. Reproducing osprey/Audoin gull pairs                                           __X___________
12. Diversity of global species                            X                        Jbel Moussa, Khnifiss
13. Diversity of rare species                                         .



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                     Page I of 11
ANNEX 2
A.   Detailed project description.
1.    The project would assist the Government of Morocco with the establishment of a system of protected area
management through (a) implementation of protected area management plans at key sites together with local
communities, and (b) capacity-building at central and local level to assure sustainable ecosystems management and
monitoring (see Annex 2 B for a description of the selected Parks and Reserves). The project has four principal
components.
National Capacity-Building ( US$3.5 million)
2.    The objective of this component is to strengthen the institutional capacity of MWF and the other main actors,
in particular research and training institutions, in sustainable management and conservation of protected areas in
Morocco. The component is four-pronged: (a) support to project management; (b) training programs; (c) study and
scientific follow-up program; and (d) establishment of a georeferenced database on biodiversity in Morocco.
3.    Project management and monitoring (US$1.0 million). This activity would strengthen the department of Parks
and Nature Reserves within the MWF. It would finance technical assistance totaling about 45 person-months in
monitoring, project technical, financial and procurement management, revision of regulations and institutional
arrangements for protected area management, the implementation review of the project at the beginning of the third
year, equipment and vehicles and training and equipment, and software for improved financial management, including
the preparation ofo the Procedures Manual.
4.    Training (US$0.9 million). Broad training to existing forestry staff would be required in the principles of
participatory conservation management. Training would be provided to all 170 staff to be involved at the project in the
regional forest administrations, at engineer, technician and forest ranger level. An additional 100 staff would be trained
in order to allow for staff turnover, and to permit the concepts of conservation management to be integrated more
broadly into forest land-use planning. The project will finance the following activities:
* In-service training would comprise six modules: GEF and protected area management (190 trainees), natural
resource management (235 trainees) local communities and valuing the environment (200 trainees), and education
in interpretive park management (235 trainees).
* Initial training in conservation management would be provided to forest students (200 trainees), and would
comprise field training and theoretical training.
* Training of Trainers. Training would also be provided to forest trainers through a contract with a specialized
training institution, in order toe ensure that appropriate pedagogical methods are adapted to the needs of the
programs. Within the ministry the Office of In-Service training would provide coordination and assistance.
5.    Ecosystems Evaluation and Monitoring (US$0.9 million). This is a program of scientific monitoring of the
ecosystems and species of the protected areas and reserves, in order to develop and refine effective scientific
conservation management strategies (see details in Annex on research). Specifically it would:
* Develop methods for conducting scientific inventories of the ecosystems of the protected areas and reserves
supported through the project, building on existing data bases;
* Establish the taxonomy of individual species, using molecular biology, on order to characterize the genetic
diversity of these species, and as the building block for developing detailed programs for in-situ genetic resource
conservation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page 2 of Hi
6.    The project would also utilize existing databases established by French and Spanish research institutes,
through twinning arrangements if necessary. The program would be undertaken by the Unit of Biodiversity
Monitoring withi.n the Scientific Institute, which works in close cooperation with the forestry administration. The
National Forestry Research Center also has a small ecological department; it would be supported through the project,
in order to strengthen its capacity for carrying out field research. The first study concerning the SIBE's inventory will
be carried out by the Unit of Biodiversity Monitoring. The preparation of the implementing procedures for the other
studies and cooperation between the different institutions will be the responsibility of the technical assistant in charge
of research, who will be recruited for a period of 36 staff-month within the Nature Protection Service.
7.    The project will also finance the strengthening of the National Center for Forestry Research (Centre National
de la Recherche Forestiere), by acquiring vehicles and research equipement in order to increase both the amount of
scientific developments of SIBEs and MWF capacity to realize environment and biodiversity research activities.
8.    Data base and geographic information systems program (US$ 0.7 million). This program to set up a protected
areas monitoring and evaluation system in Morocco, focusing on the establishment of a data base on protected areas, in
particular the ones concerned by the project, based on a geographic information system (GIS).
* The data base implementation will require Moroccan and international specialized assistance for conducting
preliminary studies and modelling development. The project includes computer equipment whose norms will
depend on procedures defined by its creators. Training for users is included. The information will be incorporated
into the data base as of the start of the project, as Morocco already has a very important basis of works already
implemented regarding biodiversity and ecosystematic studies, which will translate into data identification and
acquisition, in collaboration with the different Moroccan and foreign sources concerned. The data base
localization will be finalized by the first yeat with the research technical assistant support to be recruited.
*  The computerized master plan includes a GIS technical unit under MCEF Computer Services. This unit will be
supported by the project which will finance technical assistance for the creation of a protected areas follow-up
GIS, in connection with the different data base already existing, training of the system users at central and regional
level, and acquisition of GIS equipment required to implement the system.
Protected Area .Management: National Parks (US$7.6 million)
9.     Through this component the project aims at three general objectives: (a) manage and rehabilitate the most
threathened and biologically most interesting habitat and species; (b) help to enhance natural resources through
ecotourism development; and (c) develop and implement rural development plans compatible with conservation
obectives with users communities. For each of these objectives, the project will finance a set of activities and
operations groupecl under three components: ecosystem management and rehabilitation, ecotourism and participatory
rural development. During the first two years, the project would support activities in Toukbal and Al-Hoceima
National parks, and depending on the success of these operations and the implementation review schedule for the
beginning of year 3, it would support conservation management in Haut Atlas Oriental National Park from year 3.
Toubkal National Park (US$3.1 million)
10.    Ecosystem management and rehabilitation. The project would support two programs:
. The first program relates to forest and vegetation and includes: (a) Atlas cypress, Cupressus atlantica
(regeneration of 500 ha and preservation of 65 ha); (b) classifying and protection of ash and willow trees;
(c) preparation and implementation of a park-wide forest conservation plan, together with local communities;
(d) introduction of agroforestry (50 ha in the Tifni valley); and (e) wood plantations for village use on about 60 ha.
* The second program relates to fauna and will focus on: (a) Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) and its habitat, and
protection of the species in the Takherkhort reserve within the park; (b) monitoring and protection of habitat of the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page 3 of 11
barbary macaque (Macaca sylvanus); and (c) inventory and monitoring of carnivorous mammals and raptors,
together with protective measure including elimination of feral dogs, termination of animal poisoning, better herd
protection and compensation for loss of troops to protected carnivores.
11.   Ecotourism. The project would support training of 8 local guides, creation of thematic paths; publication of
brochures, management and control of visitors to the park, an inventory of footpaths, installation of signposts, and
creation of a rural lodging association.
12.   Participatory rural development. Activities would be developed as part of the conservation management plan
and with the participation of the local populations. Priority activities identified for the first year, as result of
participatory action planning undertaken during project preparation, would include: rehabilitation of water wheels and
diversion channels from stream bottoms; support with production of fodder and animal health, and with wood
plantations.
13.   In order to execute these activities, the project will also finance the Park Management equipment and the basic
infrastructure required in three sectors (Tassa Ouirgane, Imlil, Setti Fadna).
Al Hoceima National Park (US$2.4 million)
14.   Ecosystem  management and Rehabilitation. The two programs to be implemented include Forest and
Vegetation for the first one and Fauna for the second one.
e  Forestry and vegetation restoration including: restoration and protection of oaks (100 ha); protection of Barbary
thuya (Tetraclinis articulata) forests, with reforestation of 150 ha per year; preparation of a detailed reforestation
plan; and village plantations (60 ha) (US$0.28 million)
*  Wildlife conservation including: census, monitoring, and management of marine bird life including the osprey
(Pandion haliaetus); Audouin's gull (Larus Audouinii) and the herring gull (Larus cachinnans): a study of marine
ecosystems including preparation of a detailed map indicating the incidence of flora and fauna, and leading to a
conservation management plan for threatened species; an inventory and monitoring of raptors and carnivores, with
conservation management measures including control of the use of strychnine and elimination of feral dogs, and
reduction in the population of wild pigs, which is damaging agriculture (US$0.26 million).
1S.   Ecotourism. The project would support: training of 6 local guides, footpath relocation, a study of tourism
development, preparation of a charging system for tourists, camp site rehabilitation, and a boat for scientific
expeditions.
16.   Participatory Rural Development. Activities would be developed as part of the conservation management plan
and with the participation of the local populations. Priority activities identified for the first year, as result of
participatory action planning undertaken during project preparation, would include: water wheel rehabilitation, pumps
of irrigation wells, terrace and gabion rehabilitation, and management of wild pigs (see above).
17.   In order to execute these activities, the project will also finance the Park Management equipment (vehicles and
equipment) and the basic infrastructure required in two sectors (Cala Iris and Rouadi).
Eastern High Atlas National Park (US$2.1 million)
18.   Ecosystem management and restoration. The project would support:
* Forestry and vegetation management including: mapping of the status of the cedars of the park, and pilot
regeneration programs, protection of cedars on Jbel Hayim (170 ha) with sylvicultural treatments, census and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                      Page 4 of 11
organization of populations having the right of use to the forest of Jbel Sloul (4000 ha), and village plantations (in
Aberdouz).
* Monitoring and management of the wild sheep population, monitoring and management including: pasture
management for Cuvier's Gazelle (gazella cuvieri), evaluation of the population and ecosystems needs of the
barbary macaque (macaca sylvanus), monitoring of raptors and carnivorous mammals, and protection of lake
birdlife and otters in the Imichil lakes, protection and restoration of reeds and ecotourism management of the lakes.
19.   Ecotourism. The project should support training of four local guides, establishment of sign posts, organization
of local lodging providers, and identification of tourist horse trails.
20.   Participatory rural development. Since detailed management plans would be prepared and implemented for the
park only in the third year of project implementation, after the project implementation review, participatory rural
development plaLnning has not yet begun. Preparatory work would likely begin in the second year of project
implementation.
21.   In order to execute these activities, the project will also finance the Park Management equipment and the basic
infrastructure required in three sectors (Tirrhist, Imilchil, Outarbat).
Protected Areas Managenent: SIBES-Reserves ( US$3.9 million)
22.   The 10 sites concerned by the project represent a set of varied ecosystems among the most deteriorated or the
most important in Morocco. The implementation of a sustainable development for these SIBES integrating the needs
of the population is a sine qua non condition for the success of protected areas management. There are four different
subcomponents: ecosystem management and rehabilitation, ecotourism, participatory rural development and basic
equipment. 22. Support to SIBEs would start with Aghbar during the first year (a draft development plan has already
been prepared), SWel Moussa, Tamga, and Khniffis during the second year, Bou Iblanem Bou Nacer and Tichoukt
during the third year and Bouhachem, Jebel Krouz and Chekar during the fourth year.
Ecosystem manag,ement and restoration
23.   This sub-component includes planning and management studies that must be conducted with the local
population participation. These planning and management studies generally include: (a) exploration of site wildlife
and flora in order to deepen the knowledge on each ecosystem, (b) ad hoc regulations concerning camping or tourism
activities on the site, (c) forestry planning and processing studies, (d) research and experiments on species regeneration
such as Zen Oak (Quercus faginea) or Atlas Cypress (Cupressus atlantica). These planning ang management studies
include an important socio-economic component aiming at having a better knowledge of the user population and so
preparing the tasks related to the participative rural development sub-component.
24.   The implementation of planning studies is also ipcluded in this sub-component and mainly corresponds to the
following activities: (a) forestry species regeneration and reforestation, (b) fencing for zones to be specifically
protected, and (c) caretaking of fenced areas or their access forbidden to grazing. This component also includes a
program on aoudad, Barbary macaque, raptors and large marnmals, and the implementation of an observatory for
ground birds and marine animals.
25.   The selected sites are higly claimed and used by the population. It is therefore impossible to preserve them
entirely and, for the ecosystem protection to succeed, it is necessary to transform them into participatory spaces among
user population and agents in charge of management.
26.   Actions relating to participative rural development have therefore a major role in this project implementation.
They will translate into community development plans in agricultural areas and into range management plans in
pastoral areas. In this last case, development work will be done in participation with user groupes (i.e. pastoralists)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Annex 2
Kingdomn of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                      Page 5 of 11
27.   The participatory approach will gradually include the different villages or users groups asthe project develops.
First steps are needed to establish participating groups. The work will then proceed with a priority group before
executing the action plans. Work with the second group will start afterwards. Two sites only do not belong to such a
program. One is Jbel Moussa where problems of development and urban planning are much more important, and Jbel
Chekhar whose boundaries need to be demarcated again.
28.    Rural development actions will be specific to each situation. They will cover the following aspects: (a) range
management and improvement, (b) animal health, (c) honey production development, (d) irrigation development in
some sectors, (e) arboriculture development, and (f) local resources development (especially fishing resources).
Ecotourism
29.    This sub-component aims at promoting site tourism by conducting studies to: (a) define new tourisric products
(circuits, implementation of lodging, identifiying transport possibilities, etc... ) with local partners; and (b) promote
these products with national and foreign agencies. This component will involve NGOs able to take over local
development and be a partner to populations and administrations or do a feasibility study on a nursery opening.
Basic Equipment
30.    This will consist of strengthening the physical means available to field teams in charge of management,
implementation and follow-up of proposed actions as well as monitoring. This strengthening will relate to:
(a) procurement of three radio equipment allowing rapid information dissemination; (b) fire control implementation;
and (c) building construction (administrative offices and housing).
Public Awareness and Education (USSO 7 million)
31.    The public awareness program is intended to inform the Moroccan public at large and the project population in
particular, on aspects related to biodiversity, sustainable development and protection of wildlife and flora. The
wawreness activities will aim in particular at the following public: population of participating villages, primary school
teachers and pupils, elected local authorities, technical and administrative staff, educational staff and public at large.
Awareness will be implemented through a set of complementary activities.
32.   The project would support promotion of public awareness about conservation management in general and the
project in particular at national and local level through:
  Radio and television emissions using the "spot" or short public-interest announcement approach to convey
biodiversity conservation messages, through contracts with a production agency. There is already experience with
this approach in Morocco. It is expected that the project would fund daily television "spots" for three months every
year through the project life, and twice daily radio spots also for three months per year;
*  Small grants to local NGOs for biodiversity conservation, public awareness and education (US$ 0.55 millions),
initially at Toubkal and AL-Hoceima. NGOs would be selected in a competitive basis, and would put forward
proposals which would need to meet certain criteria to be funded. The financial management of the programme
would be contracted to an "umbrella" NGO in each area.
B.    Project Area
33.   The project will be implemented in three national Parks and in ten Reserves. The selection of these areas has
been made among the National Strategy priorities and is representative of the country's bio-ecological and socio-



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                      Page 6 of 11
economic conservation and sustainable development problems. The three National Parks and ten Reseves constitute
the most significant ecosystems of the littoral Rif (Al Hoceima and Jbel Moussa NP) and Rif Middle-Atlas
(Bouhachem), Western High-Atlas (Toubkal, Tamga and Aghbar NP) and oriental (Eastern High-Atlas NP), Middle-
Atlas (Tichoukt, Bou Nacer and Bou Iblane), steppes and Saharian Atlas (Jbel Krouz and Chekhar) and Southern
Atlantic (Khnifiss).
National parks
Toubkal National Park (38,000 ha)
34.   Toubkal National Park is located in the Central High Atlas and encompasses the highest summits in North
Africa with altitudes varying from 1,500 to 4,167 m, and rainfall from 300 mm to 800 mm. This park includes a varied
and unusual flora, including 145 species endemic to Morocco, of which at least 20 are endemic to the National Park.
The majority of the endemics are at high altitudes above 2600m. The park also includes mountain juniper forests
(Juniperus thurife,ra) , which attains its maximum altitude in Morocco of 3200m. The dense oak forest, both cork
(Quercus faginea) and holm oak (Quercus rotifundifolia), is found only in the Takherhort reserve, and is well
conserved. A major part of the park is steppe and xerophyte. The park was created in 1942 and comprises delimited
Government forest land with land-use existing park management structure.
35.   Fauna. The fauna is characterized by the presence of an important population of Aoudad (Ammotragus
lervia)s, around 300 to 400 animals, which is actually in expansion from the population of the Takherhort reserve. The
park includes large or rare mammals (wild sheep, wild cat, porcupine), and several threatened or endangered raptors
(golden eagle, lammergeier). The southern-most population of monkeys is found in the high Ourika, which are
threatened by the degradation of the environment. The bird-life, due to the altitude and the variety of the surroundings
is rich, with around 95 species of nesting birds, among them the rare white rumped swift (Apus caffer). The lake of
Ifni, the highest in Morocco, is home to -otter (Lutra lutra) and trout (Salmofario).
36.   Human occupation and production systems. The population of the peripheral zone was estimated, in 1993, to
be around 32 000 people in approximately 100 douars. In the central zone there are no permanent residences.
The population growth is estimated at 2% a year, the rate of emigration at 0.4% a year. Density of the population is
estimated at 46 people/km2.
37.   The northern part of the national park is delimitated as state land, while that in the south is not delimitated.
Production systems are heavily dependent on the exploitation of natural resources. The central zone of the park serves
as important summer grazing for populations in the vicinity. The village lands include: (i) flood areas; (ii) watersheds;
and (iii) rangelands in the higher areas. In some areas transhumance livestock rearing is the main system of production.
38.   A large part of the park is used for pasture for livestock during summer and is under threat by over-utilization,
especially some forested areas, whose regeneration is hampered by tramping or browsing. Even the Takherkort
integral reserve is sometimes invaded by sheep and goats during the drought periods. Wood collection is an important
activity, which provokes degradation of the forest cover or xerophytic bushes, and disturbance of some areas. Erosion
threatens more and more areas of the park. Poaching, especially of Barbary sheep, is more or less controlled, but feral
dogs are regularly found in the Takherkort reserve.
39.   The project will implement management plans covering 45,128 ha divided in the following zones: (a)
Protection of natural zones in Takherkhort, 1562 ha corresponding to the old aoudad reserve, with an extension; Tizi
Mzik (thuriferaie 65 ha); gorges of Assif Tinzer, 107 ha and Lake Ifni, 76 ha; (b) Natural sanctuaries managed in the
extension zone of the aoudad. (4998 ha), of mountain juniper forest of Assif n'Ouarou, (308 ha), Tizi Oussem-Tizi
n'Tzikert, (117 ha), Amenzel-Tamatert (1513 ha) and the oaks of Assif Tinzer ( 904 ha); and (c) A zone of natural
resources covering 34,297 ha.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page 7 of 11
Al Hoceima National Park (48, 000 ha)
40.   Flora and Fauna. The park is in the province Al Hoceima, on the north-western Mediterranean coastal area. Its
altitude varies from sea level to 747 m. The largest biodiversity interest of the park is marine based. The initial
justification for the creation of the park was the marine bird-life. The osprey (Pandalion haliatus) comprised 33
couples in 1992, with an important concentration in one sector giving the notion of a colony, unique in the
Mediterranean for this species. Marine life is particularly rich, with 86 species of fish, 3 species of dolphins regularly
observed. Red coral is also found. Although rarely seen in the park, some seals have been observed from time to time.
At least 60 bird species also live in the park. Al Hoceima National Park is a refuge for many rare marine and bird
species, and is highly threatened by planned coastal development. The decree for creation of the park is currently being
prepared. The park includes forest land and some collective and private land.
41.   Human occupation and production systems. The population in the park is estimated at 14,800 in 36 douars,
with an estimated 52 persons/km'. A census update in 1994 confirmed a decrease in the population in these zones. An
additional 32, 000 people live around the park.
42.   Water resources in the central zone of the park are very limited and populations are organized into private and
collective groups around water sources.
43.   Each douar and each family has a combination of production activity and revenue generation activity.
Emigration to the towns and overseas complements revenue. The economy of each village is characterized by different
weights by each of the principal activities. The production systems use traditional techniques, which are characterized
by the intensive use of rare resources, in particular irrigable land, and extensive utilization of abundant resources such
as, grazing, and marine resources. However, the emigration is lessening of pressure of natural resource use.
44.    Threats include: Intensive fishing, which may deplete the breeding stock; Use of forbidden techniques
(dynamite, deep-sea fishing with air bottles, small-gridded nets, trawl-nets near the coast) and motor-boats, which
disturb the breeding grounds of both sea species and birds; Pollution (garbage); Uncontrolled tourism and urbanization.
On the ground, threats include: erosion, excessive harvesting of natural resources (firewood, alfa, dwarf palm tree,
eggs,...) and overgrazing. There is a hunting area (4,000 ha) for wild boar and partridge in the proposed park.
Rock and sand extraction is being done in several sites.
45.   The management plan of the park proposes the establishment of a national park covering 48,140 ha, of which
19,540 ha are in a marine environment and 28,540 ha are terrestrial. The proposed zoning is as follows:
* Marine including: 3 coastal reserves bf 240, 760, and 290 ha; 2 coastal sanctuaries of 240 and 320 ha; a natural
resources zone of 17270 ha including access to fishermen;
* Terrestrial including: 5 reserves of 60, 1730, 480, 700, and 390 ha, including the coastal sectors (nesting zones of
marine birds), and some areas of vegetation of special interest; 3 sanctuaries of 350, 590, and 320 ha; Inatural
resources reserve, ex regional hunting reserve, of 2510 ha; and a zone of natural resources of 21,790 ha.
Eastern High Atlas National Park (52,500 ha)
46.   Flora and Fauna. This park is situated in a mountainous region provinces subject to Atlantic and Saharan
influences, with altitudes varying from 1650 m to 3077 m. Rainfall varies 200 mm to 700 mm. This national park has
a mosaic of vegetation populations, from dense forest to steppes. Dominant ecosystems are based on the Atlantic
cedar (Cedrus atlanticus), horn oak (Quercus rotundifolia), the Maghreb mountain pine (Pinus pinaster maghrebiana,
endemic to Morocco), Aleppo pine (Pinus alepensis), ash (Fraxinus dimporpha), high altitude xerophytic shrubs, and
alfa (Stipa tenacissima). There are over 50 rare and endemic species.



Project Appraisal Documernt                                                                        Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                          Page 8 of 11
47.   Fauna include the Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) Cuvier's gazelle (Gazella cuvieri), Barbary macaque,
(Macaca sylvanus), otter (Lutra lutra) and golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). As the park is at the crossroad of several
bioclimatic regions, the variety of birds is very large, and the park hosts many species of international importance,
including resident aquatic species such as the black-necked grebe Podiceps nigricollis, several ducks and related
species, who find here several major nesting sites at the limit of the arid areas; 4 endemic reptiles have been found in
or nearby the park, as well as 3 more endemic sub-species. Several rivers originate in the park and its watershed
protection value is important. Population density is low; nevertheless, there are threats. These include: cutting
branches and tree tops (where browse is more palatable) to feed the livestock during winter, and collection of live
branches for firewood; the traditional pasture rotation system, increase local populations; and forest officers. Use of
strychnine to destroy jackals (Canis aureus) has also had a disastrous effect on large carnivores (mammals and birds
of prey). Vultures have disappeared from the area. Contamination with other pesticides used to control cricket
populations nearby is another serious threat here.
48.    The cedars and maritime pine are often very degraded, and in rapid regression, with the exception of some
cedars, like those in the north of Jbel Hayim, and the oaks of Aberdouz, which are well conserved.
49.    One of the major reasons, that the park was created is the existence of an important population of aoudad
(Ammotragus lervia) , of around 200 animals, which are contiguous with other groups to the south of the park.. In the
eastern limits of the park, a remnant population of the highly threatened Cuviers' gazelle justifies an extension of the
park. Boundaries.
50.    The bird populations are rich with almost a 100 nesting species, while there are at least 30 reptile species.
Lake Tislit also is home to a varied fauna.
51.    Human occupation and production systems. The zone in which the project will operate has 37 douars, 3275
households and some 18 500 habitants. The douars are mostly situated in the buffer zones of the park. There is little
population growth. In the park the population density is relatively weak, around 4000 habitants, partitioned between 6
douars, with about 6.2 people/km2. Road transportation and health facilities are limited. With regards to the judicial
statute, the park is in large part state land. Forests lands, delimited, cover approximately 18 500 ha, about 36% of the
total area of the park. The state lands, not delimited, cover very degraded sub-forestry areas.
52.    The main systems of production are animal husbandry, irrigated agriculture and wood collection, all of which
are highly linked to the availability of natural resources and infrastructure. The project will implement management
plans covering a proposed 55 252 ha partitioned as follows:'
*  protected zones of Jbel Fazzaz 1130 ha and of Smad 990 ha (Aoudad), Jbel Hayim 170 ha (with Atlantic cedars)
and Idouwa 1482 ha (cuvier's gazelle);
* nature sanctuaries of Jbel Tazigzaout 1673 ha, Jbel Fazzaz 2286 ha (proposed for the conservation of the forest),
and Jbel Aberdouz 3370 ha (proposed for Aoudad ); and
* a natural resources zone of 42 191 ha.
Reserves
Rif Ecosystems
53.    Jbel Moussa. The reserve would cover 4000 ha on the littoral Mediterranean with a mountainous relief,
representative of oak forests (Quercus suber, Quercus coccifera) , with high floristic endemism. This site provides a
major resting ground for migratory birds. The reserve is part of a region which is fairly densely populated. The
population directly concerned in the project area is approximately 5,000 people. The main menaces to this site are the
pollution, urbanization, "wild" tourism, collection of bird's eggs and fires.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                     Page 9 of 11
54.   Jbel Bouhachem. This reserve would cover 8000 ha in the Rif mountains, with a sylvatic ecosystem unique to
Morocco, a high biodiversity and an exceptional number of amphibians, comprising 9 of the I I species in Morocco.
The borders are densely inhabited, approximately 7000 people, with a high level of poverty and traditional activity and
pastoralism. The exploitation of the forest (wood, charcoal and poaching) and the planting of cannabis on fragile
terrain constitute sources of revenue as well as threats, as does tourism in 4X4 vehicles and fires.
Ecosystems of the Middle-Atlas
55.   Jbel Bou Nacer. This reserve would cover 14 000 ha in a mountainous massif rising to an altitude of more than
3,400 m including the highest mountains of the Middle Atlas, with high altitude xerophytic ecosystems, holm oak,
Magreb maritime pine and Atlantic cedars, Aleppo pine, juniper and alfa. The reserve has a high floristic endemism,
including high biodiversity. The reserve also has a large variety of environments conducive to mammalian habitation.
The population around the jbel are in regression, moving towards the plains and the irrigated perimeters. Intense
pastoral use is in the north and east of the reserve.
56.   Jbel Bou Iblane. The reserve would cover 12 000 ha of mountainous terrain, ( over 3000 m) in the eastern
High Atlas, representing an ecosystem of Atlantic cedars and of the norhtermnost mountain juniper forest in Morocco.
The reserve has remarkable bird life and reptiles of high biodiversity. The population is composed of large livestock
owners, clandestine exploiters of wood and small agro-pastoralists. Deforestation and illegal cutting of wood are also
frequent.
57.   Jbel Tichoukt. The reserve would cover an area of 12,500 ha with a relief of 2700 m in the Middle Atlas. The
reserve has a sizeable flora, constituting a bio-geographic zone of transition. The presence of Barbary macaque, small
mammals, birds, a reptiles and a tropical fauna of aquatic invertebrates add to the biodiversity interest. The user
population is in the order of 3,000 to 4,000, and owns goats and sheep. The summer grazing lands are managed by
the user populations according to a flexible organization characteristic of the pastoral system. The wood requirements
for heating and cooking are from the reserve. The population also hunts and exploits the reserve for medicinal and
aromatic plants (thyme, juniper berry and thuya).
Ecosystems of the High Atlas
58.   Tamga. Situated north of the High Atlas in middle altitudes and enclosed valleys, the reserve would
encompass 8,500 ha and represents a pine ecosystem remarkable for Morocco. There is an interesting holm oak forest
with exceptional regeneration, inhabited by the Barbary macaque. The faunal endemism and the biodiversity is high.
The site is partially occupied by agricultural land. The concemed population is around 15,000, with a troupe of 50,000
head of sheep , which are the principal source of revenue. High pastures are used in the summer, and the animals are
enclosed in the winter. Fuelwood cutting and collection of plants for perfume are also important economic activities.
59.    Aghbar. This reserve would cover 6,500 ha situated in the west of the High Atlas in middle altitude and
enclosed valleys, with unusual Atlantic cypress ecosystems, and rich in small fauna and reptiles. The population is
around 4 500, partitioned between 17 douars. Sheep-herding is the predominant activity, and there is out-migration.
Ecosystems of the steppes and the Saharan Atlas
60.   Chekhar. The reserve has a semi-arid climate, with thuya and oak forest, and a plantation of Aleppo pine. The
reserve covers an area of 10 000 ha with varied morphology and steep escarpments. The reserve is relatively
degraded, with the alfa under strong pastoral pressure. Dorcas gazelle are present in the reserve, amongst other steppe
species. The reserve is on the Algerian frontier, inhabited by a population of ex-miners and agro-pastoralists, and is
characterized by a high rate of poverty.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                             Page I oof II
61.    Jbel Krouz. This reserve would constitute an area of 60 000 ha, representative of Phoenician juniper and alfa
ecosystems, and is situated in the mountainous massif of the Saharan Atlas. The important pre-Saharan fauna is
composed of Aoudad, dorcas and possible Cuvier's gazelle. Close to the Algerian frontier, the site is inhabited by
approximately 1300 families of nomadic livestock herders. The principal use of the reserve is for fuelwood and
secondary pasture. Poaching is decreasing since a hunting reserve has been established.
Littoral Atlantic Saharan ecosystem
62.    Khniffiss. This reserve has an exceptional landscape with remarkable species. It is a resting ground for aquatic
migratory birds, including the slender billed gull (Larus genei) and the common tern (sterna hiroundo), the only site
in Morocco for the two species. It is classified as a Ramsar site. The specific richness of the site is remarkable from
lagoon to terrestrial level, with the presence of numerous endemic species, in particular reptiles and amphibians,
terrestrial flora and micro-mammals. The human activity is partially regulated and includes traditional pastures of the
Mejjat and the Lamiar, fishing, extraction of salt by cooperatives, aquaculture tourism and research.
Populations in and around the national parks and reserves
Parki                                            a       '''' t Poptiu id  r d ui n       uarsUAbrds
Al Hoceima        14.800                     36                   32.000                58
Haut Atlas oriental  4.000                   6                    14.500                37
Toubkal           No permanent Residences    0                    32.000                100
Jbel Moussa       3.953                      794                  1.197                 229
Jbel Bouhachem    No residences in park      0                    7040                  1.148 households
Chekhar           4.507                      635 households       n.a._
Jbel Krouz        9.014 (incl. 7.121 nomads)   1.245 (incl. 947 tents)
Jbel Tichoukt     No dwellings               0                    3881                  704 households
Bou Naceur        n.a.                       n.a.                 11704                 1.658 households
Bou fblane        2.057                      356 Households       n.a.                  n.a.
Tamga             n.a.                       n.a.                 11.712                2.840 households
Aghbar            4.332                      17                   n.a.                  n.a.
Khnifiss          Unknown



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Annex 2
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                             Page 11 of H1
Other SIBEs (National Parks and Reserves) Indirectly Involved in the Project
(Training, Studies and Database Components)
SflE   -        .    Size (ha). B^io-ecolcal value                                 Program
Talassemtane National Park         64,600      Unique site of Ahies marocana, + reptile great European Union
diversity
Ifrane National Park               54,000      Largest forest cover in Morocco (Cedars-Oaks)  AFD/FFEM
Tazekka National Park              12,000      Species biogeographic limit - forest massif GTZ - FAO
with Cedrus atlantica
Souss Massa National Park         38,800      World unique colony of Geronticus ermita   GTZ - KFW
Jaaba                              1,800       Finest Zen oaks in Morocco                AFD/FFEM
Aghbalou n'Arbi                    14,000      Site nidification + - important deterioration  AFD/FFEM
Jbel Gourougou                  Not defined    Rare site with biologic recovery          FFEM
Jbel Sargho                     Not defined    Biogeographic  litnit with very diversified  PNUE
habitatdiversifies - much threathened
Moulouya                           2,700       No equivalent biologic quality for this littoral   MEDWET
Sebkha Bou Areg                    14,000      Unique lagoon zone of this littoral       FFEM
Cap 3 fourches                     8,000       Remarkable  fauna  (including   Monacus  FFEM
monacus)
Merja Zerga                        7,000       Most important lagoon with high biodiversity -  MEDWET
RAMSAR site
Sidi Bou Ghaba                      800        Exceptional bird fauna                    Biologic Reserve
Archipel Essaouira                  27         Unique insular environment plus rare hawk  Biologic Reserve
species
M'Sabih Talaa                      1,900       Gazelle reserve, perhaps unique sub-species  Biologic Reserve
Aguelman Afenourir                 3,800       RAMSAR Site                               AFD/FFEM



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Annex 3
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                        Page I of I
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Components                       Local          Foreign         Total
1. National Capacity Building                               1.8            1.4           3.2
2. National Parks (SIBE/Parcs) Management Plans             4.5            2.3            6.8
- Al Hoceima National Park                                1.5            0.7           2.2
- Eastern High Atlas National Park                        1.2            0.7            1.9
- Toubkal National Park                                  1.8             0.9           2.7
3. Reserves (SIBE,'R4serves) Development                    2.8            0.7           3.5
4. Public Awareness and Education                           0.5            0.1            0.6
Total Baseline Costs                                       9.6             4.5           14.1
Physical Contingencies                                    0.2             0.3           0.5
Prices Contingencies                                      0.8             0.3            1.1
Total Project Costs                                        10.6            5.1           15.7
Project Components by Year (Including Contingencies)
(US$ million)
Project Components             2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006   Total
1. National Capacity Building           0.01     0.39     0.7      0.99    0.81    0.42    0.18    3.50
2. Protected Area Management
- Al Hoceima National Park            0.01     0.27     0.48     0.68     0.56    0.29    0.13    2.42
- Eastern High Atlas Nationa Park     0.01     0.23     0.43      0.6     0.49    0.26    0.11    2.13
- Toubkal National Park               0.01     0.34     0.62     0.87     0.71    0.37    0.16    3.08
3. Reserves (SIBE/Reserves) Development   0,01   0.42     0.77     1.09     0.89    0.46     0.2    3.84
4. Public Awareness and Education        0.00    0.08     0.14      0.2     0.16    0.08    0.04    0.70
Total   0.05     1.73    3.14     4.43     3.62    1.88    0.82    15.67
N.B.  For further details, see COSTAB tables in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 4
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                      Page I of 5
Annex 4
Incremental Costs and Global Environment Benefits
Overview
1.    The objective of the GEF Alternative is to strengthen the national system of protected areas in Morocco and
promote sustainable conservation management, with increased participation of local populations, within the
ecosystems of the project-supported areas. The project supports, through relevant project outputs, Articles 6, 8, 11,
and 13 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, ratified by Morocco on August 21, 1995.' Specific project
components include: (a) implementation of conservation management plans in five national and natural parks; (b)
preparation and implementation of conservation management plans for selected Sites d'lnteret Biologique or
Ecologique (SIBEs); (c) capacity-building for the Forestry Department targeted towards protected areas management;
(d) and improved public awareness about biodiversity conservation. The GEF Alternative intends to achieve these
outputs at a total incremental cost of US$12.5 million. The proposed project should be viewed as complementary to
existing activities in Morocco.
Context and Broad Development Goals
2.    With its unique topography, bordering on the North Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea and climatic
extremes ranging from the snow-capped peaks of the High Atlas mountains to the arid regions of the Sahara, Morocco
contains thirty-nine major ecosystem types. The country is home to an estimated 4,000 plant species, twenty percent
of which are endemic; 550 vertebrate species, of which six are endemic, and twenty-two endemic species of reptiles
and amphibians. Of these, 1,600 plant species, thirty bird species, and thirty-one reptile species are threatened or
endangered, while six mammal species have become extinct this century.
3.    Morocco's rich natural and biological resource base is threatened by habitat transformation, fragmentation and
degradation. Nearly 70% of Morocco's poor live in rural areas, placing significant pressure on the nation's natural
resources. Morocco's forests have degraded through over-harvesting of fuelwood, agricultural expansion, urban
expansion, and industrial development. Terrestrial wetlands have been disturbed by agricultural expansion, pesticide
run-off, erosion, and eutrophication, while uncontrolled coastal development has threatened coastal and marine
biodiversity.
4.    The immediate development goals of Government of Morocco include placing the economy on a sustainable
high-growth path while simultaneously reducing social disparities, particularly between urban and rural areas.
Medium-term priorities include improving natural resource management, implementing a coherent rural development
strategy, and building a more effective and efficient public administration. In response, the World Bank's new
business compact with the Government of Morocco focuses on several priority areas consistent with the Government's
reform agenda, including strengthening environmental management, increasing social and rural development, and
reforming the public sector. Programmed activities include developing a plan for natural resources management,
particularly for water; implementing mechanisms for integrated environmental management in the most polluted zones
of the country; and institutional strengthening of the newly-created Ministry of the Environment. In addition, the
Government is finalizing its National Environmental Action Plan.
Article 6: General Measures for Conservation and Sustainable Use; Article 8: In-situ Conservation; Article 11: Incentive Measures;
Article 13: Public Education and Awareness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Annex 4
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                    Page 2 of 5
Baseline Scenariot
5.     At the national level, Morocco is committed to protect important natural resources and to preserve
biodiversity. Towards these ends, in 1993 a Ministry of Environment was established with a mandate for defining
strategies and policies and for coordinating and managing the environment sector. In 1994, the Ministry of
Environment formulated a National Strategy for Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development as the first
strategic document outlining the overall goals and fundamental principals for environmental protection. Presently, the
Government of Morocco is in the process of completing a National Environmental Action Plan and National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan.
6.     In 1990, the Moroccan authorities completed a National Protected Areas Strategy and Plan, withthe assistance
of the African Development Bank. With the assistance of UNEP/GEF, Morocco is now completing a National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. The BSAP will identify current challenges to the conservation and wise use of
the biological resources, including the effectiveness of the laws and institutions. Priorities include identifying how
natural resource use is adversely impacting ecosystems and threatening species with extinction. Likewise, the BSAP
will provide an important opportunity for Morocco to establish a comprehensive cross-sectoral framework to assist in
prioritizing potential investments in the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity. The Ministry of
Environment has confirmed that the proposed project is consistent with the findings of the BSAP and a top priority.
7.     Costs. The Government of Morocco, through the Forestry Departnent, Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry
of Marine Fisheries ancl the Merchant Marine, is undertaking a variety of programs related to forestry, watershed, and
coastal zone management. Specific activities range from reforestation, soil conservation, delineation of property
rights, and water pollution cleanup in coastal areas. Likewise, the Government of Morocco has begun to require
environmental impact assessments (EIAs) for public investment projects and a legal framework is being established to
carry out systematic EIAs. Nonetheless, the negative impact of economic activities in protected areas is unlikely to be
affected by such regulations, given that the principal threats in national parks and SIBEs are not affected by large-scale
public investments but rather through small-scale agriculture, forestry and tourism activities. Under the Baseline
Scenario, it is expected that Government of Morocco expenditures for biodiversity conservation over the FYOO-05
period will total US$7.1 million. This includes US$1.3 million for " National and Regional Capacity Building",
US$3.5 million for "National Parks Management', US$2.1 million for "Management and Improvement ofSIBEs" and
US$0.2 million for "Public Awareness and Information", through the central Forestry Department (AEFCS) and the
regional branches (DREFs) at the regional level. Also, some contributions are expected from the beneficiaries,
US$0.75 million for "National Parks Management" and US$0.15 million for "Management and Improvement of
SIBEs"
8.     At present, a number of activities underway by other development agencies are targeted towards natural
resource management in. general and biodiversity conservation in particular. These include:
*  The World Bank Lakhdar Watershed Management Project aims to test, through a participatory approach,
improvement of land use and natural resources management in mountainous areas, which in turn will lead to less
soil erosion and improve the natural habitat of wildlife. Project components include forest conservation on public
lands; soil and water conservation measures on public, private and collective lands; sustainable agricultural
development; and capacity building with the AEFCS related to natural resource management. Total project
expenditures included in the Baseline Scenario: US$4.9 million.
2 A number of activities will be near completion by the estimated starting date of the GEF Alternative, and thus are not included in the
Baseline Scenario. These include the GEF / UNEP Enabling Activities for Biodiversity and three World Bank-financed projects:
(i) Second Forest Development Project, which has improved Morocco's forest potential, protected watersheds, and supported institution
building for nature conservation in three national parks; (ii) Environmental Management Project, which has strengthened Morocco's
institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection; and (iii) Preparation of the Sebou River Basin Environmental
Protection Project, which includes a financial and institutional study of the use of revenues from forestry activities in Ifrane Natural
Park. In addition, the African Development Bank's study and strategy for protected areas and management plans for national parks,
upon which components of this project build, is now completed and is not included in the Baseline Scenario.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 4
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                      Page 3 of 5
*  GTZlBMZ's community-based conservation management activities in Tazekka, Toubkal, and Souss-Massa
National Parks. Total project cost: US$1.2 million.
*  Italian Cooperation/FAO's natural resources management project in Tazek. Total project cost: US$ 1.0 million.
*  European Union's community-based forest ecosystem management activities in the Chaouen Province, which
includes a specific support to Talassemtane Natural Park: Total project cost: US$3.0 million.
*  UNDP/GEF's Regional Mediterranean coastal wetlands project. Project cost: US$2.8 million (for the Morocco
component).
*  Japanese bilateral support for addressing marine pollution in the Al Hoceima area. Total project cost: US$1.0
million.
*  UNDP/GEF's proposed Rangeland Biodiversity Conservation Project (Jbel Sagho SIBE). Project Cost: US$2.2
million.
*  Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD)'s Community Based Rangeland and Forest Ecosystems Management
Project (Ifrane Area). Total Project Cost: US$10 million.
9.    The total cost of Baseline Scenario investments of the Government of Morocco and the donor community, as
described above, is US$29.1 million, not including UNDP/GEF projects totaling US$5.0 million.
10.   Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in limited protection of biodiversity, increased
domestic environmental benefits related to forest and watershed management as well as soil conservation, increased
participation in conservation, and slight improvement protecting coastal areas in Morocco's forested areas. Likewise,
progress will be made in achieving broader development goals related to strengthening environmental management
and improved social and rural development.
Global Environmental Objective
11.   As a consequence of the current course of action, regarded as the Baseline Scenario, Morocco's protected
areas will likely continue to be degraded by overgrazing and poor pasture management, over-collection of forest
products by local inhabitants, poorly-managed recreational uses, unregulated development of coastal areas, and high
population. growth rates within national and nature parks. The long-term implications of these activities includes the
steady loss of globally significant biodiversity over the next two decades.
12.   Scope. The GEF Alternative would build on the Baseline Scenario by protecting key major ecosystems;
conserving highly-threatened remnant ecosystems and species; evaluating the possible re-introduction of selected
raptors and mammals; providing opportunities for local populations in and around protected areas; increasing public
awareness about biodiversity conservation; and supporting participatory approaches to sustainable natural resource
conservation. Principal project areas benefiting from the GEF Alternative include:
*  Toubkal National Park, in the Central High Atlas, includes 23 endemic species and rare mammals and endangered
raptors in mountain landscapes reaching 4100 m.
* Eastern High Atlas National Park, in one of the most isolated parts of Morocco, contains high value, though not
well studied, mountain biodiversity.
*  Al-Hoceima National Park, which is part of a flyway for migratory birds and is likewise the home for rare marine
species, including monk seals and red coral.
*  Ten Sites of Biological and Ecological Importance (SIBEs) which have been selected for their global significance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Annex 4
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                    Page 4 of 5
13.   Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$ 41.9 million, detailed as follows:
(i) rangeland and forest ecosystem management - US$14.9 million (same as Baseline); (ii) marine pollution reduction -
US$1.0 million (same as Baseline); (iii) national parks management - US$16.35 million (Baseline Financing -
US$9.45 million; GEFfinancing - US$4.9 million; French GEF financing - US$2.0 million); (iv) management and
improvement of SIBEs and reserves - US$4.85 million (Baseline financing -US$2.25 million; GEFfinancing - US$2.6
million); (v) national and regional capacity building - US$3.8 million (Baseline financing US$1.3 million; GEF
financing - US$2.5 million); and (vi) public awareness and information - US$ 1.3 million (Baseline financing US$ 0.8
million; GEFfinancing - US$0.5 million).
14.   Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative would make possible activities and programs that would not
have been possible under the Baseline Scenario. For instance, the proposed project will fill one of the key gaps in
biodiversity conservation in the Mediterranean region by monitoring and evaluating the status and distribution of
species and of ecosystems and facilitating information exchange with other countries. Likewise, while both the
Baseline Scenario and the GEF Alternative support biodiversity conservation in Morocco's national parks and SIBEs,
with both domestic and international benefits, only the latter option would ensure long-term conservation and
sustainable utilization through strengthened on-site management, outreach to and involvement of local communities
and local governments, and development of viable approaches to sustainable natural resource use in national and
natural parks.
Incremental Costs
15.   The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$29.7 million) and the cost of the GEF
Alternative (US$42.2 million) is estimated at US$12.5 million. This represents the incremental cost for achieving
environmental benefits through strengthening policy and legal frameworks for protected areas management,
developing mechanisms for sustainable resource use among local communities, and strengthening local and national
capacity for conserving globally significant biodiversity. This incremental cost is expected to be financed through a
GEF grant of US$10.5 million and a French GEF grant of US$2.0 million (Agence Fran,aise de Developpement being
the Implementing Agency).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                      Annex 4
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                                                       Page 5 of 5
COMONEM              .tom Cateory                   USS million           DOMESTIC BENEFIT   f                         GLOBAL BENEFIT
Forest Ecosystem     Baseline                    14.9                 Increased flow of forest goods
Management                                                             and environmental services.
Increased opportunities for
income generation for rural
communities.
With GEF alternative        14.9
., __                                                                                                           _            _...
Coastal Zone         Baseline                    1.0                   Reduced water pollution near
Management                                                             fishing areas, allowing for
increased fishing yields
With GEF altemative        1.0
Conservation         Baseline                   9.45
Management Plans
for selected
protected areas
With GEF altemative         16.35                                                    Protection of globally significant biodiversity in
(including French GEF)                                                               three national parks. Increased opportunities for
alternative income generation based upon
sustainable utilization of biodiversity in buffer zones
and protected areas. Increased collection and
analysis of information vital for conserving endemic
flora and fauna. Meaningful participation of local
stakeholders and participatory schemes for
sustainable natural resource management.
Conservation plan   Baseline                    2.25
for SIBEs
With GEF Altemative        4.85                                                      Protection of globally significant biodiversity at
SIBEs. Increased opportunities for sustainable
utilization of biodiversity in SIBEs. Reintroduction
of rare species which play important roles in
maintaining ecosystem integrity in SIBEs. Increased
_________________  ',,____________________  __________________ ,_________________________ _ :monitoring  of  globally  threatened  species.
Capacity building    Baseline                    1.3
for biodiversity
conservation
With GEF Alternative       3.8                                                       Increased public sector capacity to manage
__________________  _ ____________________   __________________protected   areas  and   SIBEs.
.__  _  _   _    I ncrne   a                 2~5                   ___    __   _ .   __   _ .  __
Public Awareness    Baseline                    0.8
With GEF Altemative        1.3                                                       Increased public awareness of issues related to
biodiversity conservation and participatory schemes
with local NGOs to promote outreach and
sustainable natural resource management.
Incemental                 0.5  
Totals               Baseline                   29.7
With GEF Altemative        42.2 ($2.Om FFEM)
3    Of which IFrenchEni                   10.50m
Of which French GEF is $2.0m.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Annex 5
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                   Page I of 6
Annex 5
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under this project will be in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, using standard bidding documents and contract forms agreed with the Bank. Contract
thresholds, modalities, and Bank financing ratios are indicated in Tables A, B, and C of this Annex. Consultants will
be selected in accordance with Bank's Guidelines on the selection of Consultants, January 1997, using standard
contract forms agreed by the Bank.
As this project will be implemented in a decentralized manner and with the participation of local populations,
the large part of the procurement is expected to be in small quantities at any one time. As such, the procurement
methods will be implemented in accordance with community participation regulations to allow for flexibility and
efficient procedures. As a significant part of the investments to be done under the project will be carried out together
with the concerned populations it is not possible to be exact on the amounts in each category and these figures can only
be indicative. These amounts have been estimated based on the priorities indicated by those populations included in the
socio-economic surveys carried out during project preparation.
Procurement of works, goods and services under the "Community Development" category related to
Community Development Plans will be carried out by the executing Regional Directorates of Forestry and Water
(DREF), under the Ministry of Water and Forests (MWF). Procurement of goods and services related to the central
structure will be carried out by the Project Management Unit (PMU).
Works: Works under the project (about US$ 5.2 million) are described in Annex 2. These would be carried
out with NCB procedures. Small community development works within the framework of PDDs may be procured
through community participation.
Goods: Goods comprise essentially of vehicles and various equipment and furniture (about US$ 1.9million),
also described in Annex 2. These will be procured through NCB procedures.
Consultant Services and Training: Also described in Annex 2, these total approximately about
US$ 4.6 million, and will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
Community Developments
Works not exceeding US$20,000, and estimated to cost an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million, may be
procured through community participation in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank which will be
detailed in the Procedures Manual, in order to encourage the employment of local populations. However, where it is
judged that neither national bidders nor local populations would be interested in participating in an activity,
procurement may be done by force account.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Annex 5
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                     Page 2 of 6
Small Grants Program
The project shall finance biodiversity conservation activities (GEF funding not exceeding $5,000 per sub-
project), to be executed by participating NGOs in the various communities in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the World Bank which will be detailed in the Procedures Manual. The program will be managed by a limited
number of "umbrella" NGOs, not exceeding three, and implemented in the project national parks areas (i.e. Toubkal,
Al Hoceima and Eastern High Atlas National Parks). These "umbrella" NGOs will be contracted by the PMU (MWF)
through single source procedures and will be responsible for selecting eligible activities within the project areas. The
selection committee comprises representatives from the Administration and a representative from the umbrella NGO
concerned, and will meet quarterly to review sub-projects proposals. The PMU will advance the budget allocated to
sub-projects to the umbrella NGO concerned, which will act as intermediary for payment of activities to be
implemented. The umbrella NGO will charge a management fee of 10% of the funds paid. The total amount allocated
to the sub-projects is US$500,000 and the total management fees for the umbrella NGOs will be US$50,000.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
There will be no large Works or Goods contracts. Works and goods valued at more than US$ 300,000 will be
subject to prior review.
For Consultant Services and Training, in the case of consulting firms, for contracts valued at more than US$
100,000 terms of reference, shortlists, letters of invitation and contracts would be subject to prior review, while for
contract valued at less than US$100,000, only the terms of reference would be subject to prior review.
In the case of individual consultants, for contracts valued at more than US$ 50,000, terms of reference,
shortlists, letters of invitation and contracts would be subject to prior review, while for contracts valued at less than
US$ 50,000, only the terms of reference would be subject to prior review.
Procurement Plan
A procurement plan is included in the Project Implementation Plan.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement categories and percentages financed by the loan are presented in
Table C.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
*  Disbursements for contracts exceeding US$300,000 for works and goods, US$100,000 for the services of
consulting firms and US$50,000 for the services of individual consultants, and US$20,000 for community
developments will be fully documented. Documentation to support these expenditures would be maintained by the
concerned DREFs with copies submitted to the PMU. These documents will be made available for review by
Bank missions and for project auditing.
* All other expenditures will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 5
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page 3 of 6
Special account:
The Borrower will establish a Special Account (SA) in Moroccan Dirharns within the Kingdom General
Treasury, to be managed by the SEGMA in conjunction with the PMU to facilitate disbursements. Applications for the
replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by the necessary documentation,
including the bank and reconciliation statements of the SA. The SA would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
The initial Authorized Allocation of the SA would be limited to SDR 370,000 equivalent. The maximum
Authorized Allocation would reach SDR 500,000 equivalent, representing four months of estimated project
expenditures, when disbursements reach US$2 million equivalent.
Retroactive Financing
During negotiations, a retroactive financing provision in an amount not exceeding SDR 770,000 was allocated
to facilitate project start-up.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Annex 5
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                Page 4 of 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                 Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB        Other         N.B.F
1. Works
5.2                                       5.2
(2.6)                                     (2.6)
2. Goods
1.3        0.61/                          1.9
(1.0)      (0.5)                          (1.5)
3. Consultant Services and training
4.6 2/                        4.6
(4.4)                         (4.4)
4. Community Developments                                        2.o0'                          2.0
(1.5)                         (1.5)
5. Small Grant Program
0.5 41                        0.5
(0.5)                         (0.5)
5. Recurrent Costs
1.5            1.5
(0.0)          (0.0)
Total
6.5         7.2           1.5             15.7
(3.6)       (6.4)         (0.0)          (10.5)
Note: N.F.B. = Not Bank-Funded
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the GEF grant
1/      To be procured through national or international shopping.
2/      To be procured following the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borroweres, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
3/      To be executed through participation of local communities, in acordance with procedures acceptable to
the World Bank.
4!      For biodiversity conservation activities implemented by NGOs and not exceeding U$5,000 per eligible
sub-project, provided these activities are selected in accordance with procedures and criteria acceptable
to the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Annex 5
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                 Page 5 of 6
Table B : Thresholds for Procurement Method and Prior Review
Expenditure              Contract Value        Procurement Method           Contracts Subject to Prior
Category                 (threshold)                                    Review/Estimated total Value
subject to Prior Review
1. Works
All contracts        NCB                       All contracts equal or above US$ 300,000
2. Goods                   Above US$ 100,000    NCB                       All contracts equal or above US$300,000
Up to US$ 1 00,000   Is
3. Consultants Services
and training
*  Firms                   >US$ 100.000          Consultants guidelines   > 100,000 (TORs, short list, LOI and
contracts)
<US$ 100.000         Consultants guidelines    < 100,000 (TORs only)
-  Individuals             > US$ 50.000          Consultants guidelines   > 50,000 (TORs, Short list, LOI and
contracts)
< US$ 50.000         Consultants guidelines    < 50,000 (TORs only)
Note:      The contracts carried out under community developments and the small grant programs will not exceed
US$20,000 and US$S5,000 per contract, respectively. Concerning elibility and prior review, the World Bank will
have to approve all the PDDs, within whose framework the community developments will be carried out, as well
as the eligibility criteria and selection procedures of sub-projects, within the framework of the small grants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Annex 5
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page 6 of 6
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in SDR million           Financing percentage
Works                                 1.68 (2.30)             70%
Goods                                 1.10 (1.50)     100% of foreign exptenditures, 100% local
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 80% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Consultants Services and Training     2.77 (3.80)            100%
Community Developments                1.10 (1.50)            100%
Small Grant Program                  0.40 (0.55)             100%
Unallocated                           0.65 (0.85)
Total                                 7.70 (10.50)
Note: Figures in parentheses reflect the US$ equivalent calculated at the exchange rate of
1 SDR = US$1.37207 as of November 30, 1999 (end of month preceeding negotiations).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 6
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page I of 6
Annex 6
Financial Management System
A.    Assessment of the Financial Management System
l.    The financial management system in place in MWF, implementing agency for the project, was appraised
during project preparation. The main characteristics of this system are the following:
* The financial management system in place is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework
applicable to the pubic sector and more specifically to governmental institutions. This system includes three levels
of control before disbursement. The first is the responsibility of the budget unit (Ordonnateur), the second occurs
at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) level by the budget execution controller (Controleur d'execution des depenses),
and the last one is performed by the public accountant (Agent comptable).
* The payments are generally centralized at the level of the Kingdom General Treasury (Tresorerie GMn&rale du
Royaume/TGR) which has a fiduciary responsibility of a supplementary and specific control in case of financing
by external resources. Although this centralization aims to reinforce the control of the budget execution, the timing
needed for the entire process is long and sometimes affects efficiency. Special disbursement arrangements can be
authorized by the MOF for cases where specific revenues are earmarked for particular expenditures, and for
treasury operations regulated by law. This includes the creation of special accounts of the Treasury, and the status
of "Service d'Etat G&rJ de Maniere Autonome" (SEGMA).
 The accounting system is based on the cash basis and the outline of budget components according to decree
no. 330-66 of April 21, 1967 which includes basic rules for Government accounting. The "ordonnateurs" and the
"comptables" use separate sets of accounts to record their activities: the "ordonnateurs" keep accounts of the
commitments they authorize versus the budget, while the "comptables" keep accounts of their cash operations. A
reconciliation takes place annually and both situations are submitted to the TGR and "Cour des Comptes" for
control at their request. MWF's accounting books are maintained manually. Based on the fact that the cash basis
system is applied, an analyticallreporting system has been developed separately by some departments for the
follow up of their own activities. However, there is still considerable scope for improvement as well as the need to
implement a comprehensive Management Information System (MIS) according to the computerization action plan
issued in 1998. It should be noted that an integrated computerized management information system is planned but
the resources needed have not yet been allocated.
* MWF's staffing seems to be adequate in terms of number and capability. However, there is no official training
program for all staff to upgrade their knowledge and skills. Each department is managing its own needs separately.
* The Project Management and evaluation structure is managing many projects through international financing.
However, procedures for the execution, monitoring and managing of these projects have to be defined clearly and
an adequate computerized reporting system should be implemented in order to produce relevant and timely
accounting and financial information related to the projects.
2.    Based on the above characteristics of MWF's financial management system, inadequacies were identified as
well as a considerable need for improvement to achieve effective implementation of a comprehensive management
information system according to Bank procedures. MWF is in the process of addressing several issues related to these
problems, but resolution will most likely take several years.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Annex 6
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page 2 of 6
B.    Financial Management System for the Project
3.    In order to address the financial management weaknesses outlined above, an agreed-upon financial
management strengthening plan specific to the project will be implemented. The action plan includes:
Disbursement Legal Stats
4.     The SEGMA mechanism will be used for the project by introducing the required changes in articles 2, 3, and 6
of the decision ("Arr8te") of the Minister of Finance related to "Service de la valorisation des produits forestiers".
This will give the MWF an independent status to manage project funds and to implement the project efficiently.
Organization of the PMU
5.    The National Protection Service would be the designated PMU of MWF and the official implementing agency
for the project. The national director for the project has to be officially designated as the PMIJ head. He will be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation as well as procurement, finance, budgeting, and accounting procedures for
the project. He also has the responsibility to appoint qualified staff at the central and regionai levels to assist project
management, taking into account the level of activity and the segregation of duties according to internal control
concepts. To establish an acceptable financial management system, the PMU head will be assisted by a qualified
Financial and Accounting Officer. This person will be expected to have knowledge and understanding of World Bank
procurement, disbursement, project accounting, financial reporting and auditing guidelines and procedures.
6.     Selection of the Financial and Accounting Officer will be based on the following criteria:
* university degree in accounting or finance;
* at least five years experience, preferably with experience in the fields of public and private sector accounting,
banking, planning and budgeting, procurement and contract management, and previous or current employment
with an agency, managing project with international financing;
* knowledge of international accounting standards and internal control policies ; and
 basic computer literacy coupled with experience in spreadsheets applications.
7.    To establish an acceptable monitoring and management system, each regional office involved in the project
implementation will officially designate a coordinator in charge of issuing sub-project accounts and sub-project
management reports.
Financial and Accounting Policies
8.    Financial and accounting policies for the project need to be developed. These policies are crucial to provide
clear financial reference to the various stakeholders and finance staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing
accountability. These policies, inter alia, cover the following aspects: (a) expenditures which would be treated as
project expenditures including their classification; (b) expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement from
the GEF Grant; and (c) project accounting policies. These policies would be gradually expanded and refined to include
aspects such as efficient management and deployment of funds and internal control policies. The regional office
would comply with the financial and accounting policies of the project by signing a memorandum of understanding.
Project Accounting System
9.    The regional offices involved in project implementation would be responsible for project financial
management and accounting at the regional level. They would maintain books of accounts for project component
which they manage, prepare and disseminate sub-project accounts and regional financial management reports, and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Annex 6
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                        Page 3 of 6
ensure timely transmission of these documents to the PMU's accounting and financial unit at the central level. This
unit would be in charge, in close collaboration with the SEGMA, of: (a) the aggregation process; (b) issuing the
annual project financial statements and the quarterly Project Management Report (PMR); and (c) timely submission of
these documents to the Bank and to the auditors.
10.    The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
* Books of accounts for the project would be maintained on cash basis principles. Project accounts would be
maintained using the computerized accounting system which will be developed for the project and have to be
operational before April 30, 2000. This system would be completed by maintaining the reporting financial system
to reflect all the transactions and issuing of the quarterly PMR.
*  Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including beneficiary contributions), and all
utilization of project funds (by all implementing agencies). This would include payments and expenditures
incurred. All project-related transactions (whether involving cash or not) would be taken into account in the
reporting system. Disbursements made by the World Bank and the Special Account maintained by GOM would
also be included in the project accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified
separately and reflected in the project accounts.
* Project-related transactions and activities would be separate from other activities of each regional office and of the
National Protection Service at the central level. This distinction would be reflected at the data-capture stage. An
identifiable Trial Balance for the project capturing all project receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the
project would Ibe prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the project also needs to be set up according to expenditures
and sources of funds outlined in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document,
COSTAB model). T he Chart of Accounts should clearly show data to facilitate financial reporting of project
expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure categories; and (iii) disbursement categories.
* A reconciliation system between the Project Financial Statements /financial reports and the legal books of accounts
would be clearly defined.
*  Physical information on key performance indicators easily linked to financial costs would be part of the project
financial management system. Initially this would be maintained for some high cost items and for items of which
the physical activities can be easily captured. These items need to be identified and listed in the Procedures
Manual to be prepared by June 30, 2000. This list would be gradually expanded during implementation.
Procedures Manual
11.    The procedure Manual will outline among others : (a) job responsibilities within the PMU as well as the
internal control rules; (b) monthly and annual accounting ledger closing and reconciliation procedures, including
centralization and consolidation of data; (c) chart of accounts, accounting policies and accounting guidelines; and
(d) banking and cash procedures as well as disbursement procedures including those related to the activities managed
through development plans of Douars (PDD) and to the component "public awareness and education" especially
disbursement of small grants. It is important that this manual be in writing for distribution to all project staff and to be
used as a referential.,
Selection of Reporting Software
12.   Adequate software for the project will be selected and implemented at the PMU level. During the selection
phase, all possibilities need to be considered, more importantly: (a) purchase of standard software, or (b) development
of a customized system, or (c) selection of the system to be implemented by the Ministry of Fisheries for the Pilot
Fisheries Development Project after its validation in March 2000. The implementation of the system would require:
(a) special adaptation to World Bank repoTting requirements; (b) training of the project staff; and (c) a successful test
run of the accounting and reporting system. Supporting documents related to the test should be considered official and
kept as proof of test success.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Annex 6
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page 4 of 6
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes
13.   The information flow will be as follows:
*  Each regional department (Direction Regionale des Eaux et Forets) will generate and maintain vouchers and
supporting documentation for expenditures on activities directly managed at their level. Sub-project accounts will
be issued on a monthly basis and transmitted to the PMU for control, aggregation of data, maintaining of the
centralized project accounts and issuing of the project's financial statements.
*  Expenditures incurred by all regional offices would be audited by the project auditors according  to the
international Standards on Auditing and the World Bank guidelines; and
*  This system would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience, and modified as necessary.
Internal Controls
The project financial management system should include the following internal control mechanisms:
*  operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial perfonnance with budgets and targets;
* adoption and operation of simple and clear financial and accounting policies which would govern financial
management and accounting of the project (as described earlier). These policies and procedures will be included
in the Financial Management Manual;
*  at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring standard
internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization, distribution
of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, and easy access to supporting documents. These policies
and procedures would be reviewed and updated periodically; and
*  establishment and operation of a comprehensive aggregation mechanism, including the project financial statements
and the PMR at the Central level.
Guidelines for Internal Control Procedures
14.   Internal control has traditionally included management policies and procedures to protect an organization's
assets and to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the accounting records. Its also includes controls that deal with
efficiency and adherence to management policies. The principles of an internal control system are as follows:
A Authorization - All transactions and activities should be properly authorized by management;
* Recording transactions - All transactions should be recorded and listed in financial statements to establish
accountability of the assets;
*  Documents and records - The design and use of adequate document should help to ensure the proper recording of
transactions; I,
l imited access - Access to assets should be only through management authorization;
* Periodic independent verification- Accounting records should be checked against the assets by a party not directly
responsible for the records and assets;
* Separation of duties - The organizational plan should separate functional responsibilities (authorization, operating,
handling assets and keeping the records);
Sound personnel procedures - Sound practices should be followed in managing the staff who carry out the duties
and functions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 6
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                      Page 5 of 6
16.   This document will be included in the Procedures Manual and should reflect the PMI's activities including a
description of: (a) staff positions and responsibilities, (b) transaction's flows, and (c) relations with regional offices and
other departments as well as external authorities/administrations. This system would be reviewed as implementation
progresses and modified as necessary.
Financial Management Reports
17.   Quarterly project management (PMR) for the project would be generated from the computerized financial
management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details)
and would be used for project monitoring and implementation by each regional office and at the central level. The
PMR would include the three following parts:
(a)    Financial Statements includes:
*     Summary of sources and uses of funds
*     Uses of funds by project activity
*     Project balance statement of affairs
*     Cash withdrawal
*     Cash forecast
e     Special account statement
(b)    Project progress includes:
*     Output monitoring report using contract management information, or
*     Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(c)    Procurement management includes:
*     Contract expenditure report - Goods and works
-     Contract expenditure report - consultant
-     Procuremenit management report - Goods and works
-     Procurement management report - Consultant
18.   Fornats of the reports should be part of the Procedures Manual. The PMR will be transmitted to the Bank on a
quarterly basis and no later than 45 days after the calendar quarter. The first report, including data related to
procurement and disbursement, would be transmitted to the Bank by no later than October 31, 2000. The PMR
acceptable to the Bank including parts a, b and c as previously described will be transmitted to the Bank by no later
than May 15, 2001, and should be validated by the Bank no later than June 30, 2001.
19.   Annually: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank. The PFS would
include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from various
sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project. This would also include appropriate schedules
classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, and regional implementing agencies; (ii) a
Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the GEF grant made on the basis
of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The audited PFS would be submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months after
the end of the Fiscal Year.
Auditing Arrangements
20.   The accounts and financial statements of the project would be audited by the "Inspection Generale des
Finances" (IGF), who would be the Project Auditors acceptable to the Bank. The annual project financial statements
audited by IGF would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of GOM's fiscal year. The Terms of
Reference (TOR) acceptable to the Bank would be included in the Procedures Manual, approved by the Bank and
accepted by IGF.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Annex 6
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                             Page 6 of 6
21.    The audit by the Project Auditor would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources
and utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred). The audit will be carried out in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing. The Terms of Reference of the auditors includes both audit of financial transaction, and an
assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including review of internal control mechanisms.
Each regional implementing agency as well as the National Protection Service would provide the auditor with access
to project-related documents and records, and information required by the auditor for the purposes of the audit. The
Project Auditor would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to management's attention any
issues which need to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early completion
of the annual audit.
Training of the PMUstaf
22.    Given the importance of the above actions, the PMU head will develop a training program for the PMU staff
including the regional coordinators. The program will cover financial management procedures, intemal control rules,
budgeting, accounting policies, reporting procedures, and World Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. This program, as
well as the timetable for its implementation, have to be submitted to the Bank.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
23.    The head of the PMU will need to follow this schedule to implement the financial management action plan
over the next 18 months.
Action                      Output           Responsibilit)      Effective Date
1. Preparation of TOR for the       Detailed progratn for    PMU & WB      December 31,1999
consultants to carry out a mission    the implementation of
for the issuing of the Manual of  the action plan and
procedures and for the staff to be  TORs
appointed.
2. Accounting System for the proiect   Chart of accounts and    PMU &      April 30, 2000
accounting manual     Consultant
3. Organization of the PMU and      Organization Chart and  PMU &          January 31, 2000
designation of the PMU's team  job description        Consultant
4. Software implementation          Set-up of the system  PMU &             April 30, 2000
and testing           Consultant
5. Issuing of the manual of procedures  Procedures Manual  PMU & DREF &   March, 31, 2000
Consultant
6. Implementation of the FM System    FMP Manual          PMU & WB          September 30, 2000
7. Issuing of the first PMR         First PMR             PMU               October 31, 2000
8. Review of the first PMR          Report on the review of  WB            November 30, 2000
the first PMR
9. Training Program for PMU staff   Program: contents and   PMU             October 31, 2000
timetable
10. PMU staff training              Training performance    PMU &          December 31, 2000
report                Consultant
11. Issuing of the second PMR       PMR                   PMU & WB         February 15, 2001
12. Review of the financial         Third PMR             PMU & WB         May 15, 2001
management system and issuing
of the third PMR
13. Assessment of the financial     Final version of the  PMU & WB         June 30, 2001
management system               PMR and report on the
financial management
system



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Annex 7
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                         Page I of I
Annex 7
Project processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ '000)                         Planned              Actual
FY97         53.8                 42.5
FY98        134.3                 171.6
FY99         90.0                 66.6
Total       278.1                280.7
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned              Actual
(At PCD Stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              10                  21
First Bank mission (identification)                    6/97                6/97
Appraisal mission departure                            2/98                4/99
Negotiations                                           1/99                12/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          ND                  4/00
Prepared by: Ministry of Water and Forests (MWF)
Preparation assistance: GEF PDF Block B (US$250,000)
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Mines/Messrs. L. Msellati (Sr. Operations Officer/Task Team Leader, MNSRE), M. Bromhead
(Pr. Natural Resources Economist/Task Team Leader until appraisal, ECSSD), N. Glineur
(Sr. Environmental Specialist, MNSRE), Arbi Ben-Achour (Sociologist, MNNSED), C. Crepin
(Enviromnental Economist, AFTE1), 1. Pswarayi-Riddihough (Natural Resource Management
Specialist, MNSRE), D. Lister (Co-Cluster Leader for Morocco, MNSRE); E. Mahe (Biodiversity
Specialist, Consultant), S. Msadek (Financial Specialist, MNSRE), S. Shetty (Economist, MNSRE),
F. Cuzin (Wildlife Specialist, Consultant), 0. Aloui (Economist, Consultant), M. Gress (Sr.
Procurement Specialist, MNAVP), T. Nguyen (Disbursement Officer, LOAEL), F. Belhaj (Country
Lawyer, LEGMN), S. Pittman (Team Assistant, MNSRE), L. Moudden (Team Assistant, MNCMA).
The peer reviewer was John Fraser Stewart (ECSSD). At the time of appraisal, the Sector Director
was Doris Koehn (MNSRE), and the Sector Manager - Water and Enviromnent was Salah
Darghouth.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Annex 8
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                       Page I of I
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File *
A.    Project Implementation Plan
A project implementation plan has been prepared and includes the following sections:
Rapport de synthese
Annexe I - Recapitulatif de la conception etjustification du projet
Annexe 2 - Composante Parc National SIBE
Annexe 3 - Reserves SIBE
Annexe 4 - Formation, recherche, base d'information
Annexe 5 - Sensibilisation publique
Annexe 6 - Approche participative
Annexe 7 - Plan d'action & Calendrier
Annexe 8 - Cofits
Annexe 9 - Programme detaille: Premiere ann6e
B.    Bank Staff Assessments
Appraisal BTO Report (June 4, 1999) and Aide Memoire (May 14, 1999)
World Bank. May 1997. "Kingdom of Morocco - Environmental Review" (2 Volumes).
Report No. 16750-MOR
C.    Other
Franchimont, J., - Saadaoui, M., Octobre 1998. "Etude Nationale sur la biodiversite". ONEM/PNUE.
(1 rapport de synthese, 12 rapports thdmatiques).
Etude de definition d'un reseau d'Aires et Sites Proteges et Elaboration des Plans de Gestion des Parcs
nationaux du Maroc. Ministere de l'Agriculture, du developpement rural et de la peche maritime 1996
(7 tomes, 17 volumes).
Documents prepared for Negotiations:
* MWF Decision to transfer two additional staff (a national parks management specialist and a financial
management specialist) to the Nature Protection Service and allocate adequate office space
*  Proposal to revise the "Arrete " concerning the financial and accounting organization of the "SEGMA
pour la valorisation des produits forestiers" .
* MWF Decision establishing the The National Coordination Committee.
*  Detailed first year's investment program.
*Including Electronic File



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Annex 9
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                 Page I of 5
Annex 9
Project's Social and Institutional Feasibility
I.     This annex analyzes the social and institutional feasibility of the project, with particular emphasis on:
*  institutional and social context of the project;
  identification of the different actors implied in the project and their respective roles;
*  consultation process during preparation and assessment phases of the project; and
  institutional rnechanisms proposed to ensure its smooth iznplementation with stakeholders' participation
Institutional and social context of the project
2.     Depending on the nature of the rights and prerogatives that they will exercise during project implementation,
the actors can be classified in three groups : (i) those who have a tutelage (administrative, technical or financial), (ii)
those who have rights (property, right of use), (iii) those who play other roles (research, media or NGOs).
Administrative, technical andfinancial tutelage
3.     The concept of "tutelage" allows to define the responsibilities of the various administrations in place in the
areas of intervention and the activities anticipated in the project. The conservation of SIBEs can be done in Morocco
by way of three legal rmeans: delimitation of a park, permanent hunting reserve and controlled areas prohibited to
grazing for regeneration. With respect to the administrative tutelage, the three provisions are governed by the Ministry
of Water and Forests (MWF)4.
4,     With respect to the technical tutelag,e however, land improvement and management of protected areas implies
the intervention of various services that assume a technical tutelage over a range of activities. Matrix I below
illustrates the breakdown of functions between the various administrative services for the key activities of the project.
5.     The matrix shows that the role of WF districts and DREF will be essential to the success of the project main
activities. This is why the training program planned during the first component is focused on the whole of forestry
staff. The project financial tutelage will rest with the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with provisions described in
Annex 6.
Ownership rights and rights of use in the areas to be developed
6.     In SIBEs, privately-owned agricultural land is rare. Land and resources are mainly owned by the State, which
grants individual or collective right of use with more or less exclusive management autonomy5. Multiple rights of use
prevail on collective and national land. Regulation is ensured either by forestry services (this is the case for hunting
and fishing in continental waters for instance) or by the assembly of naibs in the communes (this is the case for grazing
and also sometimes for excess irrigation water). Matrix 2 below summarizes the land tenure status and the rights of
use prevailing on land located in the SIBEs.
4 Hence, attributions of the parks and natural reserves services stipulate that they "ensure the carrying out of studies relating to
land improvement .......... that they supervise the implementation of land improvement plans....., that they ensure
rehabilitation of endangered species ...... that they ensure sanitary conditions of the parks and report any abnorrnality to the
specialized research centers ........ that they coordinate with the districts hunting, fishing and nature conservation activities ...".
This refers for example to the access rights of transhumants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Annex 9
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                           Page 2 of 5
7.     Experience in land improvement of national and collective forests in Morocco indicates the need to pursue a
well-thought two-tiered approach with the statutory beneficiaries and the non beneficiary users.
Other institutions
8.    In the area of research and awareness, the project's actors will be the various research institutions, media and
non governmental organizations.
9.     Elected community officials which strictly speaking are not considered to be acting as the tutelage entity and
are not necessarily the owners, supervise land improvement regulations by means of different kinds of authorizations.
Identifi cation of actors and roles
10.   The notion of actors encompasses administrative services, institutions and social groups and/or lobbying
groups directly or indirectly concerned by the project. The actors' role may be passive (the one who is putting up with
the project's consequences) and/or active (the one who has an effect on the project's execution).
11.   Matrix 4 describes the role of the actors by establishing a distinction between interests at stake, anticipated
impact of the project and expected influence of the actor on the project. The three categories of the project actors are
represented. It appears very clearly that the land improvement and management components of the SIBEs group the
largest number of actors. This is the reason why special attention has been paid to their preparation in collaboration
with the various stakeholders.
12.   With regard to tutelage, the project presents a high degree of interest as it deals with important issues such as
the national strategy for protected areas, international accountability, sustainable development and mobilization of
financial assistance on a additional basis. The impact of project is restricted to the development of know-how and a
limited reallocation of public funds in favor of biodiversity. On the other hand, the influence of tutelage on the
satisfactory implementation of the project is essential because of the project characteristics.
13.   For residents, the project puts emphasis on conservation and upgrading of their heritage. Its impact will be
negative in terms of restricted access to certain areas that need to be protected, and positive in terms of opportunities to
generate alternative sources of income (see douars development projects) or income derived from conservation
activities (essentially ecotourism). Indeed, the majority of SIBEs are already protected by the forestry services, except
for some income derived from wood cutting for use by the communes (in the High Atlas SIBEs) or some provincial
hunting reserves (Al Hoceima). Under these circumstances, compensation through access to non protected areas can
be envisaged.
14.    For institutions involved in research and NGOs, the project offers both an opportunity and new
responsibilities. Their integration will ensure a quality scientific framework to the project as well as social support.
15.    As for elected officials and agents in charge of rural and urban communes, the project offers an opportunity to
demonstrate their commitment to sustainable development and conservation. The project will have impacts on the
image of the commune as well as on its revenue. The negative impact on the commune revenues, which benefit from
forestry income, will remain marginal to the extent that exploitation of the areas to be protected is already limited. The
positive impact will also remain marginal because agricultural activities and ecotourism are not subject to local
taxation.
Consultation process during preparation
16.    During project preparation, the various actors were consulted on the issue of conversation and biodiversity, as
well as on constraints induced by, and opportunities offered by, conservation. The most in-depth consultations focused
on: (a) administrative tutelage with several working sessions to discuss the institutional framework of the project;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Annex 9
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                        Page 3 of 5
(b) population using the restoration sites by means of outreach activities and participatory elaboration of development
plans in the six douars; (c) research institutions which collaborated with the team to prepare an inventory of
knowledge and qualifications; and (d) NGOs surveyed by the team in charge of project preparation. The participatory
approach methodology is used in the implementation plan administration of the proposed project.
17.   During appraisal, in-depth consultations focussed on the administrative and financial tutelage of the project, in
particular several working sessions took place to review financing mechanisms.
Implementation mechanisms
Overall principles
18.   Following consultations and studies carried out during project preparation, four implementation principles
have been defined.
* The first principle consists in decentralizing technical and financial implementation which will de facto delegate
management to the project's districts, use the services of the provincial technical committees and establish
cooperation between technical services and NGOs.
* The second principle is to gradually integrate resident owners and users to the project's objectives which will be
reflected by outreach and development activities taking place at the level of thedouars. Programming of actions
in collaboration with the population will take place over three years so as to be able to gradually integrate the
project's objectives after trust has been established and dialogue has been restored between the various local
actors.
*  The third principle is compensation of non resident users, which will imply agreements between the various
stakeholders as necessary.
 The fourth principle relates to the crucial nature of monitoring and evaluation activities at the central level, which
will resort to a permanent technical assistance.
Participation mechanisms
19.    They concern all components of the project and all actors according to their degree of involvement. Three
levels of participation are to be distinguished: participation in decision-making, participation in programming and
implementation and participation in monitoring and evaluation activities. The mechanisms set in place to ensure a
good level of participation by the various actors are detailed in Annex ........ of the implementation Plan and resumed
hereunder.
20.    Basically, there are participation mechanisms for local population and NGOs which take the form of a priori
consultations, agreements or contracts.
21.   At the provincial level, districts will be responsible for developing, on the basis of land improvement studies
and of results of outreach activities, an annual program of intervention and ensuring its approval and implementation
with the participation of other ministerial directorates by means of local commissions coordinated by the Provincial
Technical Committee. Activities at the level of the reserves will be organized according to a similar plan with regards
to the Parks & Reserves services of the DREF.
22.    At the national level, the management and the PMU will ensure administration of national components,
delegation to external services and monitoring and evaluation activities. Along side the management, a national
coordination committee for the project will be established composed of representatives of the key ministries involved
in the project (see matrix relating to technical tutelage).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Annex 9
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                       Page 4 of 5
Table 1: Technical tutelage
Component and activities                Technical tutelaghe                    Concerned SIBE
1,y~e    tQaA                 = c-o-mp              -- m0          ff  
Forest management                            DREF and WF districts          All except Khnifiss
Forestry regeneration                        DREF and WF districts          Toubkal, EHA and Al Hoceima NP
Fencing                                      DREF and WF districts          Toubkal NP-thurifera-
Sylvo-pastoral activities                    DREF, and WF districts        Eastern High Atlas NP, Bou Iblane, Tichoukt.
Agricultural services         Bou Nacer, Chekhar &Krouz reserves
Protection and management of wildlife        DREF and WF districts          All SIBEs
Protection and management of marine flora and Ministry of Fisheries         Al Hoceima NP
wildlife
P4r'a i~.y rnru r  al:ln outpun              __________                   , _____________
Intensification of irrigated agriculture     Agricultural services          Toubkal, EHA and Al Hoceima NP
Anti-erosion control                         DREF, and WF districts         Toubkal, EHA and Al Hoceima NP
Agricultural services
Fruit plantations                            DREF, and WF districts         Toubkal, EHA and Al Hoceima NP
Agricultural services
Ecotourism component                         Ministry of Tourism            All SIBEs
Rural and urban communes
Table 2: Uses and rights
Status of land         Owner               Uses by riverside residents               Other uses and users
National forest land   State            Grazing/Collection of dead wood       Grazing/Forestry exploitation
Collection of wood and secondary     Hunting/Fishing
species                              Tourism/Mining extraction
Common land         Traditional         Primarily pastoral use               Depending on local customs, non beneficiaries
collectivities under   According to the decisions taken by the   may be included
the tutelage of the    jemaa of naibs, beneficiaries may use it
DAR                 for agricultural or other purposes
"Melk" land         Individuals         Primarily agricultural use
Table 3: Consultation and participation of actor during preparatios
Preparation                                   Appraisal
Actor              Rapid consultation        In-depth          Rapid consultation   In-depth consultation
consultation
Administrative tutelage                                     X                                             X
Technical tutelage                     X                                           X
Financial tutelage                     X                                                                  X
Resident owners and users              X                    X                      X
Non resident owners & users            X                                           X
Research institutions                                       X                      X
NGOs                                                        X                      X
Rural and urban communes               X                                           X            _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                            Annex 9
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                              Page 5 of 5
Table 4: Role of actors
Actor                  Interests at stake                Project impact            | Influence on the project
Administrative tutelage    National strategy              Development of the management    Entrust the project with sound
(MEF)                    International responsibility     capacity of the protected areas   land improvement and
___________________  __________________________ _ .m anagem ent plans
Technical tutelage       Sustainable development          Establishment of sustainable land    Ensure technical sustainability
(MEF, Research                                            imnprovement models in partnership  of land improvements
institutions)
Financial tutelage       Raise international financial    Budget recording                  Ensure flexibility of
(MEF, Min. Finance,      assistance                                                         implementation
Min. General Affairs)
Owners adusers              77~
Resident owners End      Conservation and upgrading of    Restrictions on abusive uses      Ensure integration of
users                    stock                            Alternative income                conservation objectives
Income linked to conservation
Ensure viability of
conservation measures
Non resident owners and   Preservation and upgrading of    Restriction on abusive uses      Ensure viability of
users                    access right                     Compensatory measures             conservation measures
Research and training    Pursue research in fields of     Recovery of databases             Endow the project with
institutions             scientific interest              Research contracts                scientific data
International status            Development of partnership         Ensure monitoring of
Continue training                                                  ecosystems
NGOs                     Public awareness                 Increase responsibility           Ensure independent follow-up
Strengthening the social role of   Improved management capacities    of tutelage
organizations                   Deepen partnership with            Improve technical framework
Increase the impact of lobbying    administrations                 and social integration of the
groups in favor of conservation                                    project
Rural and urban          Accountability of elected officials Image of the commune           Facilitate adoption of land
communes                 vis-a-vis voters and local       Revenue of the commune            improvement measures
c_community                       I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                 Annex 10
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                                                                                   Page I of 2
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Morocco
Operations Portfolio
As of 29-Mar-99
Difference Between
Original Amount in US$Millions                    expected and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                            -                          Disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                      Purpose                         IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed            Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 104
Active Projects
MA-PE-5519       1999   GOV'T OF MOROCCO                  LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                       4.00        0.00         0.00               4.00        0.00         0.00
MA-PE-5524       1999   GOVERNMENT                        FES-MEDINA REHAB.                         14.00        0.00         0.00              13.73         0.00        0.00
MA-PE-5525       1999   GOV.OF MOROCCO                    HEALTH MANAGEMENT                         66.00        0.00         0.00              67.20         4.67        0.00
MA-PE-40566      1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   RURAL W.S.& SANITATN                      10.00        0.00        0.00                9.95        3.67          .84
MA-PE-5521       199B   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   WATER RESOURCE MGMT.                      20.00        0.00        0.00               19.90        2.00         0.00
MA-PE-5523       1998   FEC                               MUNICIPAL FINANCE II                     70.00         0.00        0.00               57.72       24.98         0.00
MA-PE-38978      1997   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO             PSD III-VOC TRG.                         23.00         0.00        0.00               19.76       10.97         2.30
MA-PE-43725      1997   ONCF                              RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV                      85.00        0.00        0.00               67.23        7.68         0.00
MA-PE-42414      1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO                       28.00        0.00         0.00              23.72        2.16         0.00
MA-PE-42415      1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   SPI - HEALTH                              68.00        0.00         0.00              52.48         -.54        0.00
MA-PE-5501       1996   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   SPI - EDUCATION                           54.00        0.00         0.00              36.20        7.60         0.00
MA-PE-5503       1996   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                SEW.& WATER REUSE II                      40.00        0.00        0.00               39.11        7.91         0.00
MA-PE-5489       1995   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                SECONDARY ROADS                           57.60        0.00         0.00              51.44       41.36         0.00
MA-PE-5435       1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONEP           WATER SUPPLY V                           160.00        0.00        40.00              71.57       67.87        12.84
MA-PE-5499       1994   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV                      25.00        0.00         7.99              10.56       15.66         1.05
MA-PE-5504       1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME                       6.00        0.00         2.54               1.54        3.80         1.39
MA-PE-5462       1993   GOVERNMENT                        SECOND LSI IMPROVEME                    215.00         0.00       71.12               59.65       55.44        14.31
MA-PE-5514       1993   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   LAND DEVELOPMENT                         130.00        0.00        24 .00             41.39        62.81       39 .35
MA-PE-5517       1993   GOV.OF MOROCCO/FEC                MUNICIPAL FINANCE I                     104.00         0.00         4 .00              1.33         5.34       -1.16
Total                                                                                           1,179.60         0.00      149.65              648.48      323.38        70.92
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  372.32            6,014.14             6,386.46
of which has been repaid:                    4.75            3,081.21            3,085.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,025.20            2,953.72             3,978.92
Amount sold                                         0.00               20.11                20.11
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                20.11               20.11
Total Undisbursed                 :              648.48                 8.36              656.84
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:   Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 28-Feb-99.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Annex 10
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                 Page 2 of 2
Morocco
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval              Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1987/90                CIH                      19.96    0.00     0.00     1.07   19.96    0.00    0.00      1.07
1987/93                SETAFIL                   2.98     1.20    0.00     0.00    2.98     1.20    0.00    0.00
1990                   ENNASR                     .94    0.00    0.00      0.00     .94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96                Mediafmance               0.00     1.16    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.16    0.00    0.00
1995                   Attijari                  0.00     .49    0.00    0.00    0.00       .26    0.00    0.00
1999                   Settavex                  5.04     9.00    0.00     0.00    5.04    9.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                     28.92    11.85    0.00     1.07   28.92    11.62    0.00     1.07
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equit   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Annex I I
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                                             Page I of 2
Annexe 11
Morocco at a glance
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North   middle-
Morocco     Africa  income       Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      27.8       285       908                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,250     2,050     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billons)                      34.8       586     1,557   :
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population 1%)                                        1.8       2.2       1.1
Labor force (O)J                                      2.2       3.0       1.5     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                             per                          enrrolment
Poverty (% of population bebw national poverty line)   13
Urban population (% of total population)               54        58        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       67        67        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              51         49        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             10        14        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 57        81        75
Illiterary (% of population age 15+)                   54        38        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of schooi-age population)  86        96       103   iMorocco
Male                                                 97       103       105         -   Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              74         89       100 D
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997     1998
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                          11.0    18.7       33.4      35.1
Gross domestic investmen?/GDP               34.2    21.1       20.7      22.6
Exports of goods and services/GDP           16.9    23.6       27.6      27.3                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.8    16.8       13.6      14.7
Gross national savings/GDP                  17.1     22.1      20.4      22.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -16.6     1.0      -0.3      -0.1
Interest payments/GDP                        1.8      3.6       3.1       28      Doniestic                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                              48.3    110.2      57.8      55.8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                  14.5    29.5       26.6      23.4
Present value of debtUGDP                               .      51.3
Present value of debt/exports                                 148.6
Indebtedness
1977487  1988-98    1997      1998   1999403
(average annual gmwth)
GDP                                 4.1      2.4    -2.3        6.5                   -     Morocco
GNP per capita                      1.5      0.6    -3.9        4.5        ..               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       4.5      6.5      6.3       3.6       7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(9 of GDP)
Agriculture                                 16.4     15.4       15.4     16.6
Industry                                    32.6     32.9      33.0      32.0 o
Manufacturing                              16.6     18.2      17.7      17.1
Services                                    51.1    51.8       51.6      51.4      O'                 5s
Private consumpton                          65.6    67.5       68.7      67.2    410 -
General govemment consumption               20.6     15.7      17.8      18.2                    G01    -      GDP
Imports of goods and services               37.3    27.8       34.7      35.2
(average annual growth)                  1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%
Agriculture                                  4.1      -0.7    -26.5      23.6    1s-
Industry                                     2.3      3.0       8.1       1.8    10Q
Manufacturing                               4.1     3.1        3.3       2A.
Services                                     5.2      3.0       0.8       4.9  s -
Private consumption                          2.9      2.5      -3.9       3.6     o
Generalgovemrnentconsumption                 5.3      1.3      -13.2      9.5                  94 s  s          97   go
Gross domestic investment                     ..      1.5      10.6      19.1     s
Imports of goods and services               -0.4      5.2       1.6       8.2             -    Exports    -*Imports
Gross national product                       3.8      2.5      -2.2       6.4   1
Note: 1998 data are prelirminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                             Annex 11
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                                                                Page 2 of 2
Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                     ____
Domestic prices                              1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                              12.6      2.8       1.0       2.7      8-
Implicit GDF deflator                        15.7      3.9       2.0       0.7     4
4-
Government finance                                                                 2 -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                              21.7     16.0      24.7      25.1            93   94   95   93   97   9B
Current budget balance                        3.1      0.3       2.6       3.1                   GDP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       2.7     -5.7      -3.6      -3.1
TRADE                                                                              -__
1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                        1'314    3,068      7,039     7,185     12,t00 -
Other agriculture                           429      858      1374     1,362
Phosphorus                                  469      368       435       453      9.000-
Manufactures                                218      876      1,467    1,490
Total imports (cif)                         3,237    4,388     9,522    10,120     6.0 0
Food                                        432  476  1,065  1,167  3" 'l iii
Fuel and energy                             371      738      1,296      905
Capital goods                              1,104     881      1,861    2,213         0.
92  93  94  9S  95  97  9B
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      71         84        87
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      76         89        97              u Exports     O Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .       94        95        90   _ I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS 
1977    1987      1997      1998     Current accotunt balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions) 
Exports of goods and services               1,839    4,420     9,510     9,964
Imports of goods and services               4,041    5,218    10,627    11,210
Resource balance                           -2,202     -799    -1,117    -1,247                    '
Net income                                   -192     -767    -1,175    -1,090    -21
Net current transfers                         560    1,759     2,205     2,304
Current account balance                    -1,834      194       -67       -32
-4-
Financing items (net)                       1,832       94       640      268
Changes in net reser/es                         2     -288      -553     -236      . 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        531     427      4,620    4,951
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              4.5      8.4        9.5      9.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        5,335   20,651     19,321    19,609
IBRD                                       340    2,558      3,271     3,388                      G0 336
IDA                                         38       41         31       29                               A 3,388
Total debt service                            357    1,779     3,081     2,841     CorspPIon Of total   U    S      1 lions)
IBRD                                        41      345        532      505
IDA                                          0        1          2        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             60       77        269      225                                      0:3S056
Official creditors                         648      481       -753      -284
Private creditors                         1,144     294       -141     -181
Foreign direct investment                   57       60      1,200      800
Portfolio equjity                             0       0        243      174                    E: 7,582
World Bank program
Commitments                                 168     802        155       130
Disbursements                               71      405        141      291      A - IBRO                     E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                        17      164        295      299      8 - IDA   D- Other multilateral   F -PrFvate
Net flows                                   54      240       -154        -8   1                                          1
Interest payments                           24      162        238      207
Net transfers                               31       58       -392      -214
Development Economics                                                                                                 9'9/99



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Annex 12
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                          Page 1 of 4
Annex 12
Rationale for Biodiversity Conservation
1.    Importance of Moroccan Biodiversity in the Mediterranean Context
The Mediterranean Basin is one of the richest areas in the world in regards to its endemic biodiversity, with more than
50% taxa, whereas vast regions like Australian or Indian areas do not reach 40%. It is only recently that the worldwide
importance of biodiversity in the Mediterranean region has been perceived and many scientific works have now been
undertaken. So the link has been identified between these values and mountains and islands habitats which are the
main Mediterranean endemism centers, with a growing latitudinal gradient (north-south) and also altitudinal gradient
(habitats over 1 700 m).
The geological history of the Mediterranean Sea and the slow changes it has experienced are the major cause for this
endemism that has been progressively created from numerous isolate systems. Within this vast region, two big
countries stand clearly out in relation to their endemism, Turkey and Morocco. If because of its flora Turkey occupies
an exceptional first place immediately followed by Morocco, this latter represents the main sanctuary for superior
vertebrates.
VASCULAR PLANTS ENDEMISM RATE                  SUPERIOR VERTEBRATES ENDEMISM RATE
.      t.   .    . .  ..   ,,,,,,r.. II,.........:! 
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I.
A biodiversity conservation is part of the preservation of sectors with a large endemics concentration, but is especially
part of the safeguard of more or less relictual taxa local centers (paleo- and patroendemic). For the Mediterranean
Basin, the sanctuary areas for its biodiversity are mainly the western biogeographic body, with in particular the Betic-
Rif flora unit and the Moroccan Atlas. Morocco, and in particular its Atlas and Rif mountains, appear to be first class
representative elements of the Mediterranean biodiversity. Therefore they must be preserved in order to ensure the
sustainability of founding taxa of this exceptional wealth.
Within the Moroccan mountains holders of biodiversity, some ecosystems play a more decisive part than others.
According to what is known so far, steppes and forestry altitude ecosystems resulting from habitats fractioning due to
ancient orogenesis, conceal the highest proportions of vegetal and animal endemics, reptile family in particular.
It should be noted that 76% of the SIBEs selected for the GEF project are located in mountainous areas.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Annex 12
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                              Page 2 of 4
2.     Ecological Repr esentativity of the GEF Project 13 SIBEs
With its biogeographic amplitude, the GEF project covers a large series of ecosystems which both represent Morocco's
natural patrimonial richness and habitats founders of Moroccan biodiversity. The SIBEs network selected for the GEF
project accounts for 70% of the 39 main ecosystems registered in Morocco.
Considering Morocco's rnost important and most threatened ecosystems (priority ecosystems in the National Strategy)
in relation to their biodiversity, the project is addressing 64% of them, i.e.:
Cedrus atlantica              steppe des reg
Tetraclinis articulata
Juniperus phoenica
Juniperus thurifera
Xerophytes dpineux
Pinus maghrebiana
Pinus alepensis
Stipa tenacissima
Cupressus atlantica
Ceratonia siliqua
Olea oleaster
Quercus rotundifolia
Quercus suber
Quercus pyrenaica
Quercusfaginea
Quercus coccifera
VWgetation des tourbi&res
Representativity must also be related to the geographic amplitude on the one hand, and thebioclimatic arnplitude on
the other. Also, the GEF network covers 8 of Morocco's 14 biogeographic subdivisions and the full bioclimatic
spectrum. Therefore this project's representativity may be considered as very high, especially for a first operation in
this area. More detailed information is given in Annex .. of the Project Implementation Plan, in particular on the
distribution of main ecosystem types registered by biogeographic region, according to the list of SIBEs of the GEF
project and the bioclinatic distribution of SIBEs by ecosystems.
3.     Ecological Validity of Proposed Actions
Actions in National Pcarks
In relation to protection and restoration, the forestry ecosystems covered by the initial program of action are as
follows:
- Cedrus atlantica          PN Haut Atlas Oriental
- Tetraclinis articulata    PN Al Hoceima
- Juniperus thlurifera      PN Toubkal
- Quercus rotundifblia      PN Al Hoceima
- vegetation de ripisylve   PN Toubkal
With the exception of ripisylve vegetation, all these ecosystems are classified as a "priority" in the Moroccan Strategy
and some of them like Juniperus thurifera, are even considered as the most currently threatened (degradation of
anthropic nature).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Annex 12
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                     Page 3 of 4
The fauna species in need of a protectionist action are as follows:
- le mouflon (Ammotragus lervia)     PN Toubkal + PN Haut Atlas Oriental
- la gazelle de Cuvier (Gazella Cuvieri)   PN Haut Atlas Oriental
- les carnivores                     PN Toubkal + PN Haut Atlas Or.+ PN Al Hoceima
- le magot (Macaca sylvanus)         PN Toubkal + PN Haut Atlas Oriental
- la loutre(Lutra lutra)             PN Haut Atlas Oriental
- les rapaces                        PN Toubkal + PN Haut Atlas Or.+ PN Al Hoceima
- le balbuzard (Pandion haliaetus)   PN Al Hoceima
- le goeland d'Audouin (Larus Audouinii)  PN Al Hoceima
- la faune marine                    PN Al Hoceima
Ammotragus lervia, Gazella Cuvieri, Pandion haliaetus and Larus Audouinii are among the rare species in Morocco.
Macaca sylvanus is one of the rare endemic mammals of North Africa. Lutra lutra is a remarkable species currently
highly threatened in Morocco.
The generally carnivorous populations (such as Hyaena hyaena, Canis aureus, Mustela putorius, Genetta, Vulpes,...)
are strongly regressing everywhere and their conservation requires a full stop to poisoning and trapping for which they
are the major victims as well a rehabilitation of their habitats.
Morocco was once the home to the most remarkable raptors population in North Africa. While their number has
strongly diminished, diversity is still present and a strong action aiming at protecting the breeding areas, stopping
poisoning and trapping and raising public awareness can contribute to put an halt to the actual regression trend.
Actions in Reserves
In relation to protection and restoration, the ecosystems covered by the initial program of action are as follows:
1. Cedrus atlantica             Bouhachem, Bou Iblane
2. Tetraclinis articulata        Tamga
3. Juniperus phoenica            Jbel Krouz
4. Juniperus thurifera           Bou Iblane
S. Juniperus communis           Jbel Tichoukt
6. Xerophytes epineux           Bou Iblane, Bou Naceur, jbel Tichoukt
7. Pinus maghrebiana            Bou Iblane
8. Pinus alepensis               Tamga
9. Stipa tenacissima             Chekhar, jbel Krouz,
I O.Cupressus atlantica         Aghbar
1 I.Pistacia alantica           Jbel Krouz
12.Quercus rotundifolia         Bou Iblane, Bou Naceur, jbel Tichoukt
13.Quercus suber                Bouhachem
14. Quercus pyrenaica           Bouhachem
15.Quercusfaginea               Bouhachem
16. Quercus coccifera           Jbel Moussa, Bouhachem
1 7.vegetation des tourbieres   Bouhachem, Bou Naceur, jbel Tichoukt
1 8.vegetation des regs         Lagune de Khnifiss
1 9.vegetation des ergs         Lagune de Khnifiss
20.vegetation halophile         Jbel Krouz, lagune de Khnifiss



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Annex 12
Kingdom of Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project                                              Page 4 of 4
Except for Juniperus communis, Pistacia atlantica, regs, ergs and halophile vegetation, all these ecosystems are
classified as a "priority" in the Moroccan Strategy and 30% of them are even considered as the most currently
threatened (degraclation of anthropic nature).
The fauna species in need of a protectionist action are as follows:
- le mouflon (Ammotragus lervia)        Bou Naceur
- la gazelle de Cuvier (Gazella Cuvieri)    Chekhar, Jbel Krouz
- la gazelle Dorcas (Gazella dorcas)    Jbel Krouz
- les carnivores                        Tous les SIBE
- le Magot (Macaca sylvanus)            Jbel Moussa, Bouhachem, Tichoukt, Tanga
- les rapaces                           Tous les SIBE
- la faune mnarine lagunaire            Khnifiss
Scientific Studies Program
This program is three-pronged:
A) ensure SIBEs ecosystems and biodiversity scientific monitoring (design of a data bank and data entry)
B) undertalce studies needed for phylogenetic characterization of certain species
C) bring about reference elements for biodiversity protection
The rationale for action is obvious for A), as it is impossible to consider setting up the ecosystems patrimonial
management without a scientific monitoring which allows the understatiding of problems and dynamics.
In relation to B), there are a number of species whose genetic status is still uncertain and therefore their patrimonial
value cannot be adequately appreciated. These species belong to the flora and the fauna. These studies would allow to
identify the exact endemic level of plants and vertebrates, contributing therefore to biodiversity characterization of
Morocco as well of North Africa. For species that are apparently unique such as Toubkhal lacertid6s, Barbary hawk of
the last herd of Gazella dorcas in the Northern Atlas plains, the discovery of a speciation range at the sub-species level
(currently suspected), would concern the national biodiversity. For amphibians and fish (such as brills, phoxinellus or
rana), it would concern biodiversity of North Africa.
In relation to C), studies would mainly focus on defining the exact status of Moroccan raptors on the one hand, and
extremely rare reptiles on the other, for which Morocco is either the only sanctuary or one of the very rare centers in
the world (Chalcides ebneri, Psammodromus microdactylus), in order to determine specific protection measures for
these animals and ensure to the extent possible their sustainability or at least the growth of their population.



N"                                                          A
3
OR
CHEFC                                                           %
uazza                                                   Oujda
ITRA                                                                          
Ch khor
Jeradoo 0
Si
OUJDA
EMI
OAEKNES
o'                                   C,
vo
Ti
emcine               acou
e                                                  BOULEM
URIB
-JA                                                                                                               FIGUIG
LAf
Jbei Krouz       (Figuig
PN Haut A
SAFI            5RA                                                                                                                                       321
Kelaaf                                                           Err
Oriental
Sra    no       L 'k
Ul                                     h                 LAL
ACHI /A r
u
17
0        so        100       ISO
KILOMETERS
Oucirzazcz
ubko                                                                                      This map was produced by the
0             ZATE                                                               Map Design Unit of The vvadd B.A.
t4                               Tho boundaries, colors, denominations
0                                    and anyother infomation shownon
UDANNT('                                                                                                         this map do not imply, on the part of
Th World8ankGroupanyiudgment
on the legafstatus ofany terriwyor
AGADIR')                                                                          4                                            any ondonament or acceptance of
I  C__                                                                                                             such boundaries.
Ti                               TA TA
RIVERS
PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL PARKS IN THE PROJECr                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
Gue6ime
EYJSTING NA'BONAL PARKS                            PROVINCE BOUNDAPJES
NATIONAL PARKS UNDER CREATION                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0       RESERVES                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(APPROXIMATE)
C:
>
28z w
N-TAN                                                                                                                                                                                                          K3
A-                                                         t-i
I                                                          10



