                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001033



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-23494)



                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.7 MILLION
                        US$ 10.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                    TO THE

                           KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                    FOR A

             PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PGAP)



                               December 18, 2008




Sustainable Development Department, MNSSD
Morocco Country Department, MNC01
Middle East and North Africa Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2008)

                            Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                                     1.00 MAD = US$ 0.137
                                     US$ 1.00 = 7.30 MAD

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                           July 1 ­ June 30

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy / Stratégie d'Assistance au Pays
DREF    Regional Department of Water and Forests / Direction régionale des Eaux et Forêts
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessments / Etude d'Impact environnemental
ENFI    National Forestry School of Engineers / Ecole nationale forestière d'ingénieurs
EU      European Union / Union européenne
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization / Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture
GEF/FEM Global Environmental Facility / Fonds pour 1'Environnement mondial
GIS     Geographic Information System / Système d'Information géographique
IGF     Audit Department of the Ministry of Finance / Inspection générale des Finances
ITREF   Royal Water and Forestry Institute for Technicians / Institut royal des Techniciens des Eaux et Forêts
GOM     Government of Morocco / Gouvernement du Maroc
GTZ     German Technical Assistance Agency / Gesellschaftfir Technische Zusammenarbeit
HCEFLCD High Commission for Water and Forests and for Combating Desertification
        Haut Commissariat aux Eaux et Forêts et à la Lutte contre la Désertification
MADRPM Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Marine Fisheries
        Ministère de I 'Agriculture, du Developpement rural et des Pêches maritimes
MOF     Ministry of Finance / Ministère des Finances
MWF     Ministry of Water and Forestry / Ministère chargé des Eaux et Forêts
NGO/ONG Non-Governmental Organization/Organisation non-gouvernementale
PAC     Community Action Plan / Plan d'Action Communautaire
PAG     Administration and Management Plan / Plan d'Aménagement et Gestion
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDD     Community Development Plans / Plan de Développement de Douar
PGAP    Protected Areas Management Project / Projet de gestion des aires protégées
PPD     Small Grants Programme / Programme de Petits Dons
PMU     Project Management Unit / Cellule de Gestion du Projet
SEGMA   Autonomous Administrative Unit for Forestry Products Development
        Service d'Etat géré de manière autonome pour la valorisation de produits forestiers
SIBE    Site of Ecological and Biological Interest / Site d'intérêt biologique et écologique
SPANA   Society for the Protection of Animals Abroad (NGO)/Société pour la Protection des Animaux (ONG)




                                   Vice President:    Daniela Gressani
                                 Country Director:    Mats Karlsson
                                  Sector Manager:     Luis Constantino
                             Project Team Leader:     Steven Maber
                                ICR Team Leader       Steven Maber
                                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                    Protected Areas Management Project
                                                  (PGAP)

                                                       CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 47
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 50
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 52
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 68
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 69
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 79
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 80
  Annex 10. Proposal for a Follow-up Phase .................................................................. 81
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Morocco Protected
Country:                Morocco                   Project Name:             Areas Management
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P048314                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-23494
ICR Date:               12/24/2008                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            MOROCCO
Original Total
                        USD 10.5M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 8.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C                         Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Haut Commissariat aux Eaux y Forets
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/09/1997       Effectiveness:          04/14/2000           11/14/2000
Appraisal:            04/29/1999       Restructuring(s):
Approval:             01/27/2000       Mid-term Review:        01/16/2006           01/23/2006
                                       Closing:                06/30/2006           06/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                 Moderately Satisfactory
                             Moderately         Implementing                     Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                           Unsatisfactory       Agency/Agencies:               Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                 Moderately         Overall Borrower                 Moderately
Performance:               Unsatisfactory       Performance:                   Unsatisfactory




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                          Yes                                               Unsatisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      95                     95
Other social services                                                   5                      5


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                          Primary               Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                               Primary               Primary
Participation and civic engagement                                    Primary               Primary
Rural non-farm income generation                                 Secondary                 Secondary

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                      Kemal Dervis
Country Director:         Mats Karlsson                         Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:           Luis F. Constantino                   M. Salah Darghouth
Project Team Leader:      Steven P. Maber                       Laurent Msellati
ICR Team Leader:          Steven P. Maber
ICR Primary Author:       Steven P. Maber




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
 The project development objectives are: (a) to improve conservation of globally
significant ecosystems and species in Morocco; (b) to contribute to the establishment of
a system of protected areas in Morocco; and (c) to strengthen institutional capacity for
sustainable conservation management in Morocco.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
None

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                 Regeneration of vegetative cover of globally significant species (in particular the
Indicator 1 : "sapides", Cedrus, Juniperus and Quercus species). Measurement of vegetative
                 biomass and rate of regeneration.
                                           At least 1,200 Ha
                 No baseline value was                         Adjusted at     475 Ha of
                                           of vegetative cover
Value            established at project                        Mid-Term        vegetative cover
                                           regenerated at the
(quantitative or preparation or project                        Review to 460 regenerated; 1650
                                           end of the project;
Qualitative)     start.                                        Ha vegetative Ha of ungulate
                                           1500 Ha ungulate
                                                               cover           reserve
                                           reserve
Date achieved 01/01/2000                   04/18/2001          01/16/2006      06/30/2008
Comments
                 Protected vegetative cover regnerated and ungulate reserve areas exceeded the
(incl. %
                 target values (100% achieved)
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
                 Management plans in national parks and reserves implemented, leading to a
Indicator 1 :
                 reduction of resources exploitation.
                                           Management plans                  Diagnostic Studies
                 3 parks have old
                                           in 3 national parks               conducted in all 5
                 management plans
Value                                      and 5 reserves                    SIBE Reserves and
                 (1992/94), which are not
(quantitative or                           implemented,                      results included in
                 not prepared in a
Qualitative)                               taking into                       their respectrive
                 participatory manner. 10
                                           consideration                     Management Plans
                 reserves have no plans.
                                           income-earning



                                                 iii
                                             opportunities, and                 All 3 National
                                             developed through                  Parks had their 3-
                                             a participatory                    year Action Plans
                                             approach                           adopted and
                                                                                commensurate
                                                                                funding was
                                                                                assigned
Date achieved 01/01/2000                     04/18/2001                         06/30/2008
Comments
                 Targets fully achieved with Management Plans adopted in all Parks and Reserves
(incl. %
                 (100% achieved)
achievement)
                 Specialization in PA created; forestry staff trained on the principles of
Indicator 2 : participatory conservation management (and able to promote NGO's
                 involvement and create public awareness); national and local
                                                                                 115 Sector
                                                                                 Specialists trained
                                                                                 with 2 modules in
                                                                                 PA Management
                                             18 students
                                                                                 17 Sector
                                             specialize in
                                                                                 Specialists
                                             Protected Areas;
                 Forestry staff have no                                          participated in
                                             15 days staff
Value            training in protected areas                                     overseas Study
                                             training/yr;
(quantitative or management; No NGOs                                             Tours
                                             increased public
Qualitative)     involved and public not                                         Av. training for
                                             awareness of the
                 aware.                                                          professional PA
                                             importance of
                                                                                 staff raised to 2
                                             biodiversity
                                                                                 weeks/yr
                                             conservation.
                                                                                 Program installed in
                                                                                 the School of
                                                                                 Engineers - 18
                                                                                 students in 3 years
Date achieved 01/01/2000                     04/18/2001                          06/30/2008
Comments
                 Capacity building for Protected Areas professionals has been successfully
(incl. %
                 installed and operated (100% achieved)
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              GEO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2000            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/07/2000            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     03/09/2001            Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                     0.48
  4     09/20/2001            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.48
  5     03/14/2002            Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                     0.48
  6     06/28/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.48



                                                 iv
  7    07/22/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          0.48
  8    01/16/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          0.48
  9    05/14/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          0.73
 10    06/26/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          0.73
 11    12/10/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          0.97
 12    03/22/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          1.31
 13    08/05/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          2.67
 14    02/04/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          3.00
 15    12/06/2005   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   3.42
 16    08/03/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   4.20
                         Moderately
 17    12/28/2006                                     Unsatisfactory        5.47
                       Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 18    06/28/2007                                                           7.85
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 19    12/05/2007                                                           8.24
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
 20    07/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   8.78


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

Because of its location and topography ­ on both the Atlantic and Mediterranean coasts ­
Morocco faces climatic extremes, with negligible rainfalls in the Sahara to the South and
precipitations up to 2,000 mm in the northern mountains. There is nevertheless a rich
variety of habitats and species, ranging from mountain and lowland forests, grasslands
and wetlands to coastal lagoons and marine environments. In particular, Morocco is the
richest Mediterranean country in terms of fauna; including reportedly 550 vertebrates
with 101 mammalian species and 22 endemic species of reptiles and amphibians.
However, less than 1% of Morocco's territory had some form of active protection at the
time of appraisal. The principal threats to biodiversity were (and still are) habitat
degradation because of agricultural and industrial development as well as urban
expansion. Moreover, around half the total population lives in rural areas and the
population of the mountainous areas ­ which are the richest in biodiversity ­ is the
poorest of all.

The Moroccan authorities are well aware of the country's natural resource potential as
well as the threats to sustainable management. But a key issue was (and still is) how best
to promote improved sustainable natural resources and environmental management while
involving the local populations dependent on these resources. Morocco has ratified the
following major international environmental conventions and agreements addressing the
protection of natural habitats and related species: CITES (1973), UNESCO World
Heritage (1975), Ramsar Convention (1980), Bonn Convention (1983), Barcelona
Convention with its related UNEP/Mediterranean Action Plan and protocol regarding
special protected areas (1983), Desertification Convention (1996) and the Biological
Diversity Convention (1996). In addition, the Government prepared in 1998 an
Environmental Action Plan, with the assistance of the UNDP and using participatory
approaches.

The present project was therefore developed to strengthen Morocco's natural resource
and environmental management capacity as well as assist in the implementation of its
Environmental Action Plan. More specifically, the project was designed to assist the
government in establishing and managing a network of national parks and reserves as
well as fostering a sustainable partnership between the populations in these protected
areas and the staff of the Ministry of Water and Forestry. This would be achieved through
reinforcing the capacity of the ministry to plan and regulate biodiversity conservation at
the local and national levels. It would also build on and complement ongoing activities
funded by other donors and would link these individual programs into a national strategy.
Over the long term, it was expected that sustainable resource management would
improve the livelihood of the local communities and create the basis for developing an
eco-tourism industry.




                                            1
1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Strategic Objective of the project is: To contribute to sustainable development in
Morocco by conserving its natural resources and biodiversity.

The specific Project Development Objectives (PDOs) are:
1. To improve conservation of globally significant ecosystems and species in Morocco.
   Achievement of this objective would be measured through establishing a monitoring
   and evaluation system of Moroccan Protected Areas for assessing the incidence and
   recovery of key ecosystems and species in selected sites.
2. To contribute to the establishment of a system of Protected Areas in Morocco.
   Achievement of this objective would be measured through the implementation, with
   the participation of local communities, of conservation management plans in the
   national parks and reserves included in the project.
3. To strengthen the institutional capacity for sustainable conservation management in
   Morocco. Achievement of this objective would be measured by the number of
   Ministry of Water and Forestry (MWF) staff trained in participatory conservation
   management and the monitoring of key indicators defined in the monitoring and
   evaluation system. Secondary objectives include: (i) increasing public awareness of
   and support to sustainable conservation management, and (ii) creation of a base for
   sustainable eco-tourism development in the future.


1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original PDOs have not been revised during the period of project execution.
However, during the Mid-Term Review mission in 2006, the wording of the second
objective was clarified by inserting the word "sustainable" before "system of Protected
Areas".


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Due to the global importance of biodiversity and the national scope of the project, the
benefits were expected to extend well beyond the populations directly involved with the
project activities:
Local Level. The project would result in improved revenues for the participating
populations by promoting income-generating activities, while at the same time taking into
consideration the protection of the environment. The project would also sensitise the
population to the use of better agricultural and forestry techniques. Moreover, the project
would support the participation of local communities in project design and
implementation. The main target population consisted of approximately 150,000
inhabitants in and around the existing conservation areas.



                                            2
National Benefits. The project was designed to help build the national capacity to
implement the first phase of a national protected areas strategy. The Ministry of Water
and Forests would directly benefit from the institutional component through targeted
training and the establishment of a geographic information system. Participating NGOs
would also benefit from strengthened institutional capacity to raise public awareness and
environmental education.
At the Global Level. Global benefits would accrue from sustainable conservation
management of the parks, including some unique flora and fauna in at least 30 different
ecosystems. The results would contribute to developing models of conservation not only
in Morocco but also in regional initiatives.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: National Capacity Building (US$3.5 million). This component was
designed to contribute to capacity building of the staff in three national parks and ten
reserves. It would support: (a) the training of park management and other MWF ministry
staff, including the training of trainers for Moroccan foresters; (b) a program of scientific
studies and monitoring of biodiversity; (c) establishment of a geographic information
system and database at the central and local levels; and (d) technical assistance to support
the relevant staff in project management, monitoring/evaluation, protected area
management, financial reporting and management.
Component 2: National Parks Management (US$7.6 million). This component was
designed to contribute to: (a) manage and restore globally significant and threatened
ecosystems and species in three national parks: Al Hoceima, Eastern High Atlas and
Toubkal; (b) better protect natural resources through eco-tourism development; (c)
develop and implement sustainable conservation management plans using a participatory
approach, with appropriate income-earning opportunities for local populations; and (d)
provide basic equipment and training for management.
Component 3: Reserves Management (US$3.9 million). Ten potential reserves were
selected among the most threatened and important ecological sites in Morocco. This
component included: (a) preparation of conservation management plans; (b) the
management and restoration of ecosystems; (c) promotion of eco-tourism; and (d)
implementation of community development plans involving local populations who use
the natural resources.
Component 4: Public Awareness and Education (US$0.7 million). This component
included public awareness activities in cooperation with NGOs, consisting of: (a) support
to the production of biodiversity conservation programs on television and radio, and (b)
support to a small grants program in the three national parks, which would assist NGOs
and local organizations in promoting public understanding of nature conservation for the
communities living in and near the parks, through programs in schools, production of
publicity materials, training and monitoring, and local conservation activities.




                                             3
1.6 Revised Components

The original project components were not revised, although the financing for some sub-
components was modified at the Mid-Term Review with a view to refocusing activities
on core priorities and activities ­ as detailed below.


1.7 Other Significant Changes

The Ministry of Water and Forests was restructured in 2005 to become the High
Commission for Water and Forests and for Combating Desertification ("Haut
Commissariat aux Eaux et Forêts et à la Lutte Contre la Désertification"). This caused a
number of changes in the project's institutional arrangements. First, the PMU became
anchored to a newly-created division for Parks and Nature Reserves ("Parcs et Réserves
Naturelles") in charge of administering the protected areas within the High Commission.
Second, a number of the PMU's responsibilities were delegated to services within the
division, for the legitimate purpose of ensuring the sustainability of key activities, namely
the day-to-day management of the parks and reserves. Third, as a consequence of the
previous change, the PMU staff was reduced from six professionals to three (plus a
secretary). Moreover, because of continuing problems associated with the complexity of
the project's financial setup (more details in the next chapter) the PMU was subsequently
brought under the direct responsibility of the chief of the Parks division.

Furthermore, due to the delay of over two years in initiating the project, the resulting low
commitment and disbursement rates and the consequent large backlog of project
activities, the Moroccan authorities requested in 2005 to extend the closing date by two
years (from June 2006 to June 2008). This was agreed to by the World Bank during the
Mid-Term Review mission at the beginning of 2006 and reflected in amendments to the
Grant Agreement with a corresponding revision to the project activities and the
distribution of funds for the remaining 30 months of operations. Specifically, it was
jointly decided to reduce the project's activities for component 3 onto five priority
reserves from the original list of ten (i.e. Chekhar, Jbel Krouz, Jbel Moussat, Khnifiss and
Tamga). Also, a number of scientific studies were reduced or discarded on the basis that
they were not going to have sufficient direct and/or concrete impact on the ground.

Moreover, most of the envisaged technical assistance activities and training programs
were regrouped and contracted to a single international consultancy, which continued to
provide technical assistance through to the revised closing date. Equally, it was decided
to expand the scope of the activities previously planned under Component 4 with a view
to enhancing the importance for public awareness concerning biodiversity and protected
areas. As a result of these changes, a reallocation of funds was requested and granted by
the Bank, resulting essentially in a reduction of the "hardware" activities (mainly planned
civil works in the protected areas) and a corresponding increase in the "software"
activities (mainly consultancies).

Finally, because of the challenging complexity of the project's financial setup (more
details in the next chapter) and the ensuing backlog of payment requests to be submitted


                                             4
to the Bank, the grace period for reimbursement under the grant, for project expenses
incurred before the closing date, was extended by two months to December 2008.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The PGAP project design responded well to the needs of the country in establishing a
network of protected areas. However, it is now generally accepted by both the World
Bank and the Government of Morocco that the project was somewhat too ambitious,
particularly in terms of the number of sites to be covered (i.e. three national parks and ten
reserves covering a very large area). Also because of the relatively limited financing
available (US$10.5 million equivalent), even though many of the project activities were
faithfully completed, they were too scattered over the various sites to have sufficient
critical mass to ensure sustainable impacts.

In addition, the project's financial setup was poorly conceived. The aim of decentralizing
the project activities to the regional and local levels was commendable, but the adoption
of an existing (but ultimately inappropriate) financial mechanism and a weak institutional
framework (whose hierarchy changed during implementation) resulted in unnecessary
complications and led to long delays.

Some of the community-level activities also suffered difficulties during implementation.
For example, the development of community development plans (under Components 2
and 3) was intended to bolster active support for the protected areas from the local
populations and especially for the management plans for the respective parks and
reserves. Also the small grants program (under Component 3) was designed to raise the
awareness of the populations to the importance of biodiversity conservation. However,
the community development plans were largely interpreted as integrated rural
development plans, which could not be fully implemented since the project did not have
the authority nor the resources to meet the expectations of the communities beyond the
High Commission's mandate, particularly concerning demands for agricultural
production and marketing. On the other hand, the small grants program gradually
became a source of financing for income generating activities, which was understandable,
but not the original purpose. The World Bank supervision missions addressed these
issues and attempted to refocus the approach by introducing the notion of a dedicated
community action plan for each protected area with community contracts (essentially for
the construction of social infrastructures), with some success.


2.2 Implementation

Although the grant agreement became effective in February 2000, funds could not be
withdrawn before April 2002 because of administrative complications in establishing the
project account ­ an additional requirement to the Bank's standard Special Account. In


                                             5
essence, an existing fast-track financial instrument (SEGMA) was to become the host for
the project's account. Unfortunately however, because of an untimely tightening in the
terms and conditions for the use of this instrument and also for reasons not anticipated at
project formulation, the MWF experienced great difficulties in setting up this account.
Moreover, as indicated above, the MWF was restructured in 2005 and the responsibility
of the primary account holder remained unfulfilled again for almost six months.

Project implementation was further hampered by three main constraints:
(i)    All field activities were subject to a multi-sectoral and participatory approach,
       which served to validate the process but also resulted in long delays in order to
       cover the very large areas involved.
(ii)    Decentralization of the project's procurement procedures was in close agreement
       with national strategy, but the regional-level controllers' unfamiliarity with
       implementing complex procurement procedures resulted in extensive delays and
       even blockages in many contracting activities.
(iii) The changes in the SEGMA financial instrument reduced its effectiveness before the
      project even began operations and in particular complicated regional activities by
      requiring the continuous involvement of 12 secondary account holders with an equal
      number of regional controllers and treasurers. And often the slow replenishment of
      the SEGMA account from the Project's Special Account meant that even when the
      paperwork was completed there were often inadequate funds to disburse. This issue
      more than any other caused the delays which hampered project decentralization.

The first two constraints were finally overcome in 2007, but the complications from the
financial controls continued to plague the project till the end. But it must also be said that
the problem was further compounded by the PMU's inability to submit payment requests
to the relevant central authorities in a timely and complete manner. These financial
difficulties and constraints caused numerous and long delays in disbursements as well as
substantial backlogs in project activities. In several cases, the delays damaged the
project's reputation with the beneficiary populations as well as with private contractors.

This situation was exacerbated by unpredictable problems with the institutional setup.
When the High Commission was established in 2005, it was understandable that the
project PMU should be anchored in the new division responsible for protected areas and
that some of the unit's responsibilities be delegated to services within this division.
However, the PMU's new responsibilities and authority were not clarified, with the result
that it often operated in an institutional vacuum, which reduced its effectiveness. Bank
missions consistently highlighted this imposed weakness and reiterated the need for re-
establishing the roles and relationships.        Various permutations were attempted
culminating in a direct reporting link to the division chief (who was also nominated to
chair an internal committee to monitor project activities) and a high-level Commission
manager was appointed to oversee the project's achievements. These measures finally
succeeded in stabilizing the structure, but were instituted too late to achieve all of the
intended results, and especially at a time when most energies were being dedicated to
establishing and organizing the new Commission.


                                              6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E mechanisms were designed for two distinct purposes: firstly to review the status of
the development of the various protected areas and secondly to track the evolution of the
project itself. After some initial confusion about the distinction between these two issues,
the PMU implemented different measures for each:
(i)     In the case of the protected areas, a scorecard monitoring system was formulated by
       an international consultant and tested at the Toubkal site in 2005. The system was
       then replicated in the other protected areas, but it never really functioned in real-
       time due to the logistical problems of supplying it continuously with timely and
       reliable data.
(ii)    For the evaluation of the project, the PMU kept track of physical progress and
       financial controls for years with an Excel spreadsheet. But in 2007, at the insistence
       of World Bank supervision missions, the sporadic reporting was replaced by a
       comprehensive Access-based database system linked to fact-sheets to be submitted
       regularly by the regional and local authorities. However, as with the score-card
       system, the information was only partially provided due to local unfamiliarity with
       the data collection process or inadequate monitoring of the quality and frequency of
       the data. Furthermore, the limited availability of reliable baseline data made it
       difficult to conduct an accurate evaluation of project impacts.

As a consequence of the shortcomings in the M&E system, the picture of the project's
progress and impact is somewhat incomplete and tends to rely more on anecdotal
evidence instead of scientific data. This is particularly true for biodiversity conservation,
which was an important PDO and also the financing of income generating activities
under the small grants program. Nevertheless, the information available is sufficient to
demonstrate substantial positive project outcomes as well as the need to capitalize on
these foundations in the future for the strategically important purpose of further
developing the protected areas in Morocco.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards: The PGAP project was classified as environmental category C, an
assessment conforming to OP 4.01. QAG questioned this rating twice (at their quality at
entry assessment in 2001 and the quality of supervision assessment in 2006), believing
that a category B would have been more appropriate given the potential safeguard issues
for the 150,000 people living in or near the project sites. However, the proposed civil
works were minor and were even further reduced after the Mid-Term Review. There
were no major environmental or social issues; nevertheless as far as possible, best
practice techniques for mitigation measures were followed.

Financial Management: In the context of the preparation and evaluation of the project,
the idea of using a SEGMA account appeared to offer the required flexibility. However,



                                              7
during the implementation of the project, the SEGMA system presented various
constraints:
   A change in the regulations caused a delay of two years to the launch of operations
   (2000 ­ 2002). The Bank had not adequately anticipated the effect of the new
   SEGMA procedures. An early amendment to the grant agreement abandoning the
   SEGMA solution could have avoided continuing problems.
   The framework of the SEGMA procedures often left the project without funds (with
   access only to the government counterpart contribution), which caused significant
   delays in the payment of suppliers. When the threshold for the advance to the Special
   Account was increased in early-2007, the Bank could have considered making direct
   payments to suppliers.
   Delays in the establishment of credits ­ generally the detailed budget request is not
   made available until March of the following year.

Significant delays were generally experienced by the project in sending in the expense
justifications from the provincial treasurers as well as the time taken to process the
documentation in the principle treasury in Rabat. Initiatives to improve the flow rate
were episodic throughout the life of the project and failed to provide adequate follow-up
or continuous monitoring. As a result, part of the grant could not be used, despite a two
year extension to the closing date and repeated messages from the Bank for the
government to pay attention to this issue.

The PCU had difficulties with the application of the Bank procedures, for various
reasons:
   The absence of an FM Specialist on the PMU Team
   Inadequate training in FM issues
   Inadequate coordination with exterior services (the staff in the parks and reserves are
   generally engineers or technicians with little familiarity in FM and administration
   procedures)
   Inadequate support by the PCU staff to the regional units (an almost complete
   absence of field trips)

Accordingly, the project needed to organize technical assistance, which it did through the
contracting of AgriConsulting in October 2002.             Although essential for the
implementation of the physical project activities, the TA could also have been directed
towards the higher administration priorities.

The establishment of an agreed Action Plan (as specified in the Minutes of Negotiation)
was substantially delayed by the failure to reach an agreed schedule of operations. In fact,
the project's Operations Manual was only finalized in 2003 and the FM supervision
system was only finalized in the final year of the project (and therefore was never used).
A more systematic participation by an FM Specialist in all of the Bank missions would
probably have resolved these issues sooner.


                                             8
The selection criteria for the community projects could have been improved, but the
option adopted by the project to delegate the component to the NGOs ADRAR and
SPANA was wise and contributed to the effective management of the Small Grants
Programme.

Procurement: The quality of procurement under the project has been rated moderately
satisfactory overall, as indicated in the last two ISRs. Although procurement procedures
under the project were not particularly complex, many problems arose during project
implementation. Procurement activities were negatively affected by several factors,
specifically at the central level, i.e., recurrent staff departures and lack of dedicated
procurement staff within the PMU, as well as a lack of qualified procurement specialists
at the decentralized/regional level. There was also considerable procedural confusion
between Moroccan procurement regulations and project-specific Bank guidelines. The
application of official Moroccan governmental procurement procedures as opposed to
those stipulated in the Loan Agreement led to the non-compliance of some procurement
activities. Moreover, implementation of the project procurement plan was delayed and
did not comply with the project's annual action plan. Thus, procurement activities were
rescheduled from one year to the next, which had serious negative repercussions on the
project's implementation schedule, ultimately requiring an extension of the closing date
from 2006 to 2008. This situation is in part due to the project's cumbersome financial
structure, i.e. the use of SEGMA accounts, and also to slow payment-processing
schedules. In certain cases, payments took six to twelve months, which is much too long,
thus delaying contract start-ups and planned project activities.

The lessons learned should be taken into consideration for any follow-up project, which
would strengthen the achievements of the first phase. Specifically, the SEGMA structure
needs to be either revised or eliminated, in light of its cumbersome procedures, which
negatively affected project implementation. Payment conditions were not satisfactory
and will require serious improvement to avoid further negative effects on contract
implementation. Another important lesson for the future would be to strengthen staff
procurement capacities to ensure sound project procurement practices. As previously
mentioned, there was a great deal of confusion between Moroccan procedures and those
stipulated in the Grant Agreement. A tighter project supervision schedule and more
continuous support for both technical and fiduciary aspects would be required, as well as
effective periodic reporting by the PMU on project progress which would be essential to
ensure the quality of project implementation in future.


2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

The PGAP project had a series of complex and ambitious objectives and it encountered
many setbacks and delays during implementation, which necessitated a restructuring of
the budget and a 2-year extension. And yet despite all of the difficulties, the project was
able to achieve many of its original goals and it was largely responsible for developing
the strong network of protected areas that exists today in Morocco.



                                            9
And just as the project was in its final stages, the Council of Ministers approved the
"Protected Areas Law" - which had gone through many iterations with the support,
assistance and lobbying from the project. This legislation will finally provide the High
Commission with the continuous stream of resources and the authority that it needs to
manage all of the parks and reserves in Morocco in a participative and sustainable way.

In fact, during the supervision mission in May 2008, the PCU had prepared a
comprehensive justification for requesting an additional 2-year extension to the (already-
extended) closing date of the PGAP in order to satisfactorily finish execution of all the
project components. The Bank had agreed in theory to the extension and the process was
almost finalized, but at the wrap-up meeting, the Director made an executive decision not
to extend the project. His reasoning was sound ­ he wanted the PGAP to close as
scheduled on June 30th and the remainder of the GEF grant to be cancelled (about
US$1.6m) so that the High Commission can concentrate on preparing a follow-on phase.

This new operation would respond to the country's rising environmental priorities and
capitalize on the renewed support for developing the protected areas from the population,
the government and from the King himself. The Director also explained that the High
Commission is fully committed to completing all of the outstanding PGAP activities, but
that it will now finance these activities under its own internal financing and keep the
Bank informed of progress and outputs. The Director also requested the Bank's
assistance in preparing the new project and this request was confirmed in a subsequent
meeting with the General Secretary of the High Commission.

So, much of the work pioneered in this modest initiative has now been institutionalised
into the organizational structure of the restructured Ministry, which now has the full
backing of the political and legal systems. The government of Morocco will therefore be
able to sustain and further develop the institutions and instruments that were prepared
under the PGAP project. And most importantly, the High Commission wants to move
quickly into a follow-up phase in order to build on this experience and develop a long-
term strategy with respect to the management of a growing number of protected areas and
to fully develop their potential for generating income and employment through eco-
tourism.

See Annex 10 for more details on the key positive impacts of the PGAP project and the
current proposals to build on these successes in the preparation of a new Protected Areas
operation.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project PDOs remain highly relevant to Morocco, in political as well as in economic
terms. Indeed, key political decisions taken during the life of the project demonstrate the
increasing importance that the government attaches to the biodiversity conservation



                                            10
agenda. Specifically: several pro-environment international conventions and agreements
have been signed which, four national parks have been created (following the preparation
in 1996 of the national strategy for protected areas) a High Commission for Water and
Forests was established in 2005 which includes a division dedicated specifically to the
administration of National Parks and Natural Reserves.

The interest shown by the Government in launching a new protected areas operation
confirms the political priority attached to implementing the new law and the urgency to
conserve Morocco's natural biodiversity while developing a sustainable network of
national parks. The focus will also shift in the future towards unlocking the potential of
the rapidly-expanding eco-tourism industry, which if properly managed will bring new
economic opportunities (particularly in the High Atlas region) and local jobs.
Accordingly, it will be important to learn from the experiences of the current PGAP
project in order to set up a more efficient and decentralized mechanism which can operate
effectively at the regional level (see Annex 10).


3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

PDO 1 - Improving Conservation of Globally Significant Ecosystems and Species
The achievement of this PDO resulted from the successful advances in the other two
PDOs and also contributed to the overall strategic objective of contributing to sustainable
development in Morocco by conserving its natural resources and biodiversity.

The key indicators for measuring attainment of this objective were the regeneration of
vegetative cover and the incorporation of the results of scientific research in the protected
area management plans for key ecosystems. At project's end, it is clear that around 475
ha of vegetative cover have been successfully regenerated, including 75 ha in the Toubkal
Park (mainly juniper forest) and a total of 400 ha in three of the reserves (juniper, cedar
and pine forests). Soil and water conservation works were also carried out in Toubkal
and the High Atlas. Firebreaks were also constructed in two of the reserves. Regarding
the protection of species, a national strategy for ungulates has been prepared and some
1,650 ha of enclosures have been established; including 1,000 ha for bighorn sheep and
gazelles in Toubkal and 360 ha for gazelles in three reserves. Moreover, field studies and
monitoring of threatened species (mainly bighorn sheep) were carried out in Toubkal. In
Khnifiss, studies were conducted on the recycling of wastes and the invasion of sand
dunes.

As indicated above, a number of scientific studies were reoriented or cancelled at mid-
term on the basis of an updated assessment, which showed that they were not going to
have sufficient direct or concrete impact on the ground. Also, the delays and
shortcomings in establishing the M&E systems resulted in limited hard data on the
project's impact, particularly on biodiversity conservation. Nevertheless, substantial
conservation activities were carried out on the ecosystems and local species, but their
long-term impacts, although positive, are not fully known at this stage. However, the
project did institute a strategy with practical methodologies for biodiversity conservation


                                             11
that is likely to remain in effect and sustainable under the government's ongoing
ecosystem programs.

PDO 2 - Contributing to the Establishment of a System of Protected Areas
The key PDO indicators were the implementation of management plans in the three parks
and ten reserves, reduction in resource exploitation and a slowing down of biodiversity
degradation. Two project components ("National Parks Management" and "Reserves
Management") contributed directly to the achievement of this PDO. The overall
approach adopted at project formulation was to prepare and implement a comprehensive
management plan (Plan d'Aménagement et Gestion ­ PAG) for each park and reserve,
supported by a community development plan (Plans de Développement de Douars ­
PDD), which would include motivating the populations concerned and applying
financing through the small grants program (Programme de Petits Dons ­ PPD).

Unfortunately, the finalized management plans (PAGs) were officially approved too late
(in 2007/08) to be of much use as a planning tool under the PGAP project. Moreover, the
plans are only for a three-year period in the case of the national parks - which is too short
a time-horizon for effective long-term planning. The PAGs prepared for the reserves
were generally less detailed but cover a longer period, but are limited to the five priority
areas (Chekhar, Jbel Krouz, Jbel Moussa, Khnifiss and Tamga). However, in the course
of project implementation, Khnifiss was officially upgraded to the rank of national park ­
due in large part to the PMU's active preparatory work and effective lobbying.

Without the initial PAGs, the formulation of the corresponding Development Plans
(PDDs) lacked direction and consequently evolved into integrated rural development
plans which although useful, could not be fully implemented under the auspices of the
current project. So to refocus the approach, it was agreed at mid-term to introduce
community action plans (Plans d'Actions Communautaires ­ PACs) instead, but this only
added more confusion at the regional level about the content and purpose of the
overlapping PDDs, PPDs and PACs. An attempt to formulate a PAC in Toubkal failed
for this reason. Accordingly, the PPD grants gradually became the key source of
financing for income-generating activities but without the benefit of a systematic
feedback system of implementation and impact indicators. Nevertheless, the PPDs
undoubtedly produced positive results in directly improving income potentials but they
also helped in successfully engaging the communities in and around the protected areas
in the project's objectives and activities.

As a result, the four national parks (i.e. the initial three plus the newly-created Khnifiss
Park) and four priority reserves now have a minimum of management personnel, basic
infrastructure, transportation and equipment. In the case of the parks, this includes access
roads, lodging accommodations, communication equipment and computers. Under the
PPD grants, many communities inside the parks and reserves (and also in the surrounding
buffer zones) were provided with fruit plants, tools and ovens to develop eco-friendly
micro-industries. A number of small-scale irrigation schemes and water supplies were
also constructed at strategic sites. And to promote eco-tourism, a basic tourist
infrastructure has been established in three national parks (Toubkal, High Atlas and


                                             12
Khnifiss) and in three reserves, including parking spaces, information centers and rest
areas. A series of informational brochures and detailed documents were prepared for the
four parks and seven reserves, workshops on tourism were held in two of the parks and in
four of the reserves and also training for tourist guides has been conducted at Toubkal,
Khnifiss and Tamga reserves.

Lastly, the project has made significant progress in creating highly effective partnerships
with two national NGOs (SPANA and ADRAR) for administering the PPD grant system
in conjunction with the Ministry of Tourism and with additional support from GTZ,
USAID, WWF, MedPO and others.

PDO 3 - Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Conservation Management
The key PDO indicators were the training of personnel, the establishment of an
information/monitoring structure for ecosystems and the implementation of a program for
increasing the public awareness of biodiversity conservation. Two project components
("National Capacity Building" and "Public Awareness and Education") contributed
directly to the achievement of this PDO. Under the first component, substantial
achievements were made in terms of institutional strengthening and capacity building,
culminating in 2005 with the establishment of a two-year specialization course in
protected areas management at the École Nationale Forestière d'Ingénieurs (producing
two promotions so far). Technical training on the same subject is also being provided
regularly by the Institut Technique Royal des Eaux et Forêts (with 45 graduates so far).
Additional training has also been given to the staff of the High Commission, for example
in project management and the use of participatory approaches and effective
communication techniques and overseas study tours were also organized for 15 senior
officers. All these forms of training will ensure a steady stream of public administration
engineers and technicians competent in protected areas management techniques. It has
also improved the level of practical knowledge about biodiversity and conservation issues
among the general staff.

For storing time-series information and for conducting monitoring on the various
ecosystems, a geographic information system (GIS) has been set up at the High
Commission's headquarters in Rabat as well as in the three main national parks and eight
specialist users have been trained in data inputting and processing. But the GIS system is
still not fully operational yet since the studies for the thematic base maps are still in the
process of being finalized. Also, although the scorecard monitoring system has been
installed it is still not generating data consistently.

The communication strategy for raising the public's awareness and knowledge about the
protected areas was successfully launched and a professional video-documentary has
been produced as well as an atlas, brochures and a web site. And as mentioned above, a
series of small PPD grants was made available to participating communities in the four
national parks (including Khnifiss) and several of the reserves. Initially, this program
was meant to raise the awareness of local populations to the importance of biodiversity
conservation, but it gradually transformed into a source of financing for income-
generating activities. Nevertheless, there is strong evidence that these 155 micro-projects


                                             13
were highly appreciated by the beneficiary communities and have had a very positive
impact on the development, management and conservation of the protected areas in
Morocco.

Although it is difficult to accurately measure the increase in awareness, there is ample
anecdotal evidence that the public has indeed become more knowledgeable and conscious
about conservation issues. This is especially true in the intervention areas but also,
encouragingly, in the main cities as well. Furthermore, the availability of rich audio-
visual and written records on the protected areas is a substantial accomplishment that has
achieved a great impact, especially on visitors to the various parks and reserves. As a
result, the High Commission now intends to finance a large-scale publicity campaign
from its own budget.


3.3 Efficiency

The project did not require cost recovery and the financial resources made available to
the beneficiaries were all transferred as grants directly from the government to the
community groups through the Small Grants Programme. Furthermore, the benefits of
most of the project investments are dedicated to protecting public commons, so they are
not readily quantifiable. Consequently, it is not appropriate to attempt a calculation on
the economic or financial rates of return for the PGAP project. Nevertheless, the
evidence from the regional activities in each of the protected areas demonstrates that the
modest project efforts have already achieved positive results in terms of conservation,
which will ensure their sustainability and generate income and jobs through increased
ecotourism.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In spite of all the problems encountered during implementation, the PGAP project was
able to achieve some important results on the ground and also prepare the way for the
next phase in the sustainable management of protected areas and the conservation of its
resources.

In the final few months of the project, the PCU team, the regional counterparts and the
High Commission had finally developed the coordination and momentum to accelerate
the pace of implementation. However, there was never a concerted effort by the project
team to resolve the crippling delays in disbursement, so the project will still leave some
of the activities unfinished at closure (although the government is committed to
completing all of the outstanding work under its own funding).

It could be argued that the project implementation ratings were likely to rise if an
additional period of extension had been requested - but the government has decided that
the priority has shifted to the development of a new project. Nevertheless, the project has


                                              14
been highly influential in drawing the public's attention to the need for conserving their
national biodiversity and in preserving the resources to generate income from ecotourism.
The project can also be credited with highlighting the need for the new Protected Areas
Law, which in turn, will provide the High Commission with the resources it now needs to
sustain the network of parks and reserves that the project helped develop.

But the frustration that was felt on all sides about the slow rate of implementation (even
after a restructuring of the budget and a 2-year extension) has to be adequately reflected
in the project's overall outcome. Consequently, a rating of "Moderately Satisfactory" is
deemed appropriate and is consistent with the recent ISR ratings.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As an environmental project, poverty alleviation was not a direct target for the PGAP, but
the success of the Small Grants Programme resulted in demonstrable indirect impacts on
poverty - especially for the income-generating activities that supported the sustainable
growth of the eco-tourism business in the various protected areas. The long-term impact
on poverty is likely to be even greater, since eco-tourism is growing rapidly in Morocco
and the High Commission has already announced its intention to develop a follow-on
phase that will focus on this aspect of protected areas management.

The work carried out by two key NGOS on the interactive preparation of Community
Action Plans (PACs) and the subsequent Community Development Plans (PDD) in each
of the national parks and reserves had a very positive impact on the social development
of the beneficiaries. Even when the planning exercise did not lead to a specific grant
(although most did) the process itself was an important opportunity for the community to
organize and discuss its needs and priorities. Women were particularly active in these
events and were involved in many of the community development activities, therefore the
majority of small grants were awarded to individual women or women's groups.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Half way through the project, the Ministry was restructured into a High Commission for
Water and Forests, including a division specifically organized to support and maintain the
country's protected areas. This certainly helped with establishing a permanent host and
counterpart for the PGAP's PCU and its program of activities. But this streamlining did
not extend to the project's financial administration, which continued to be slow and
cumbersome. Recent discussions with the Commission's personnel have indicated that
the proposed new project will apply the lessons learned from the PGAP experience by
seeking more efficient administration procedures and by decentralizing much of the
operational responsibility to the regional level ­ especially since the recently approved
Protected Areas Law now provides the Commission with the means to make these
changes. If this is accomplished, it will represent a truly lasting legacy of the PGAP
project on the strengthening of the Commission's institutional structure.


                                           15
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

It is important to note that the project objectives did not expect to bring about major
changes in the structure of the government. And yet, through its activities and lobbying,
the PGAP has managed to directly influence the creation of a new Protected Areas
division in the restructured Water and Forests ministry and has also influenced the text
and the passing of the very important Protected Areas Law.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A Beneficiary Survey is not a requirement for a Core ICR. Nevertheless, a full review of
all the activities in all of the protected areas was conducted for the ICR Mission and this
generated some useful feedback data. See Annex 2 for details.

Also an evaluation report was prepared for the ICR on the outcomes of the Community
Action Programs (PACs). This was an intense process that included a series of
participative workshops in each of the protected areas and it produced some very useful
findings, including an honest review of the weaknesses encountered (particularly on the
administration and local capacity aspects). But on balance, the report concluded that the
pilot micro-projects (principally focused on information, education, communication,
reduction in wood usage, and ecotourism) produced very good results, with significant
counterpart contribution from the communities (averaging 20%) and the creation of over
100 permanent community associations with a strong demand to continue the Small
Grant Programme. In particular, the report was able to confirm that as a result of the
project's NGO outreach programs the communities surveyed in the protected areas have
developed a much stronger appreciation for biodiversity issues and a heightened
awareness for the conservation of their natural resources. See Annex 5 for details.

In addition, a detailed field review of the accomplishments in each protected area was
conducted for the ICR. This process included the application of a management
effectiveness questionnaire (METT) based on a standard template developed by the
World Wildlife Fund. The results were universally positive, as indicated in the charts
below. Annex 10 provides more details as well as recommendations for next steps.




                                            16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

It is true that the PGAP project had a slow start, was plagued by disbursement difficulties
and ultimately was not able to finish all of its planned activities. However, its influence
on the government of Morocco, the communities in the protected areas and the general
public has been significant, very positive and enduring. A stronger ministry with the
newly acquired legal instruments to manage the protected areas and a strong commitment
to launch a follow-up operation all bode well for the future of the sector and the
continued environmental health of Morocco's national parks.

Nevertheless, these highly positive aspects must be weighed against several negative
issues, including the rigidity of the national treasury system (which unless it is
substantially streamlined and decentralized, will jeopardize any future park-based
operations) and the increasing pressure (and attraction) to develop tourism facilities
within the protected areas.

So on balance, the prospects are good for maintaining the development outcomes of the
PGAP project. But the serious lessons learned during its implementation should be
carefully considered (and their causes resolved) and action will be needed soon to
consolidate the advances achieved by PGAP.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This project was a timely response to the needs of the Moroccan Ministry of Water and
Forests precisely when they needed targeted technical assistance for the expansion and
management of their growing network of protected areas. The objectives were also fully
consistent with the Bank's current CAS and the Forestry Strategy. However, the PGAP
was an ambitious and innovative design, which planned to foster nothing less than a
culture change in the forestry sector for improving resource management through a
highly participative approach, which included regional revenue retention and income-
generating activities for the communities in the protected areas. Accordingly, the
preparation phase was complex and long (processing costs were "well above average")
and as a result the project accumulated a wide range of activities with an emphasis on
technical assistance and studies.

The PGAP project was subject to a Quality at Entry assessment in March 2001 (one year
after approval) and the QAG panel made the following key comments:



                                            17
   Notwithstanding the evident positive environmental aspects of this operation, it
   should have been classified as a B category operation.
   (The project team) understates the riskiness, which the panel would rate as high, not
   modest.
   The appropriateness of arrangements for measuring outcomes and evaluating impact
   was also rated as marginal.
   Continue to insist on a SEGMA (Autonomous Administrative Unit) acceptable to the
   Bank. This may entail yet further delays, but too much is at stake to cut any corners.

Despite these process-based criticisms, the QAG panel clearly was supportive of the
project design and it was assigned an Overall QAE Rating of 2 (i.e. "Satisfactory").
However, this was accompanied by several recommendations to the project team,
especially regarding the importance of establishing solid financial mechanisms and
monitoring instruments to ensure that the project meets its objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As has been stated above, the PGAP project ran into local disbursement problems as soon
as it started and implementation was effectively blocked for the first two years of
operation. The reason for this is quite clear ­ the chosen financial mechanism (SEGMA)
was already complicated and Rabat-centric, but soon after project approval the Moroccan
Treasury decided to add even more layers to the internal budget process, which made it
entirely unsuitable for supporting a decentralized project. And yet the Bank supervision
teams at the time failed to flag this as a critical issue requiring immediate management
and government attention. Furthermore, there was a high turnover rate in the Bank team
(5 TTLs in the first 5 years) and poor consistency in the supervision teams. Consequently,
progress was so slow that it was agreed to restructure the budget categories at the Mid-
Term Review (January 2006) to further increase the software components under technical
assistance ­ but it was decided that a formal restructuring of the project was not
necessary. However, without an effective finance/disbursement mechanism, the project
still struggled to plan strategically and often failed to pay suppliers, consultants and
contractors on time (even affecting regional Ministry staff salaries in some cases).

QAG reviewed the project in September 2006 and was alarmed at the project's progress.
Their conclusion was that the PGAP "gives every indication of having been seriously
neglected by the Bank" and they assigned the project an overall rating of 6 ("Highly
Unsatisfactory"). The QAG panel was most critical of the delay in tackling the SEGMA
problem since it affected every part of implementation and especially that this issue was
not resolved at the already-overdue Mid-Term Review. The QAG report also drew
attention to the quality of supervision, observing that "Internal Bank reporting lacked
realism and candor" and had not adequately dealt with recurring problems ­ most of
which had already been identified at the QAE assessment.




                                           18
But the QAG Panel also noted that six years after effectiveness, the project was finally
showing some positive signs of progress with the appointment of a new TTL "who
appears to be working hard to get the situation under control". This did not affect the
overall rating (which was based on the previous two years of Bank performance) but it
did herald a new era of optimism for the final two years of the project.

Since the QAG review there was a marked improvement in the Bank's oversight of the
PGAP operation during its final two years of operation. And there was a corresponding
increase in productivity and output from the project PCU in the restructured High
Commission. So on average, the overall Quality of Supervision rating was determined to
be Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank effort applied to this project has been somewhat inconsistent, at all levels.
Considerable effort was dedicated to the initial preparation process, which yielded an
innovative project design with a highly participative approach. And yet the project team
seems to have overlooked a fundamental element in the structure of the project, which
held up the entire program for two years and seriously delayed all of the activities
throughout the remaining six years of operations. Supervision Missions consistently
underestimated the scale of this problem and management did not seem to react to the
very slow progress rates. It could be argued that the responsibility to fix the inadequacies
of the national financial system lay with the government of Morocco, but they still
maintain that it was the Bank team who insisted on using the SEGMA instrument. And
yet Bank supervision missions repeatedly missed the opportunity to raise the issue and
jointly seek a viable alternative to accelerate disbursements.

On the other hand, and despite the delays, the technical assistance and supervision
remained at a high level due in large part to the excellent and consistent support from the
FAO/CP program. Nevertheless, the overall rating for Bank performance has to be less
than satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Morocco was the first country in the region to commit to Agenda 21 in Rio de Janeiro
and to prepare sectoral strategies to meet the global environmental agenda. In particular,
Morocco prepared a detailed National Protected Areas and Biodiversity Strategy and
Master Plan in 1996, which provided the basis for public investment in protected areas,
both by the government and by the international community. The PGAP project was



                                            19
born out of this process, allowing the country to take advantage of the new GEF funds
and quickly invest in building their network of National Parks and Reserves.

The government of Morocco clearly has a strong commitment to the environment and
also to the PGAP project. However, it is also clear that the institutional infrastructure
may not have been in place for implementing such an innovative approach:
   The host ministry was substantially reorganized during the project and a new division
   was created specifically to deal with the growing needs of the protected areas.
   The SEGMA financial system may have been the best option available at project
   preparation, but it was obviously not designed for the sort of decentralized, multi-
   point operation that the PGAP project needed. Furthermore, when it failed to deliver
   (repeatedly), no suitable alternative was found or developed.
   The legal basis for the development, maintenance and financing of the protected areas
   had been drafted and had gone through several revisions but was still not approved
   during the period of the project.

Yet despite all of these shortcomings, the government persisted with the project and was
able to see it (almost) through to completion. And as a result, the new High Commission
is stronger, the protected areas law has been passed and some important lessons have
been learned about the need for flexibility in the national financial systems. Furthermore,
the government has taken the decision to finalize all of the outstanding activities under its
own internal financing and is proposing to launch a follow-up project to implement the
new Protected Areas Law and consolidate the network of national parks.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Project Coordination Unit underwent several changes during the life of the PGAP
project and its size was substantially reduced after the reorganization of the ministry.
The assistance provided by AgriConsulting helped fill the technical gaps, especially with
the regional teams, but the failure to appoint full time financial and procurement
specialists had very negative consequences on all the operations. While the PCU itself
did not have the power to resolve all of the issues noted above, it could have lobbied
harder to seek more viable solutions with both the government and the World Bank.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Although the enthusiasm for developing the protected areas of Morocco is admirable,
several factors led to a less than satisfactory performance and most of the credit for the
advanced achieved should go to the dedicated staff in the various National Parks and
Reserves.



                                             20
6. Lessons Learned

The main lesson to be learned from the PGAP experience concerns the critical
importance of formulating early on a fully functional financial system to ensure the
efficient implementation of all the project activities. The failure of the SEGMA account
to deliver an effective and decentralized mechanism has hampered the entire PGAP
operation. It may have appeared on paper to be the most suitable financial vehicle, but
when changes occurred to the terms of its use (resulting in a multitude of secondary
account holders, regional controllers and treasurers) and the host ministry was
reorganized (into a High Commission) there should have been a more concerted effort on
both sides of the project to seek a more suitable alternative. This issue will be critical to
the success of any future operation - and fortunately the new Protected Areas Law should
now provide the means to develop fully decentralized budgeting and management
functions.

The second important lesson learned is the necessity to formulate a realistic project
design, grounded in practical and achievable activities with solid and measurable outputs.
Otherwise, there is a risk that operations will become too dispersed and disconnected to
achieve any lasting impact or sustainability.

Thirdly, decentralized multi-purpose projects, such as the PGAP, require close, constant
and efficient supervision (both internal and external), so adequate staffing and budgets
must be allocated to achieve this level of oversight and support

The PGAP Project suffered some serious setbacks - although most of them were
unrelated to the technical operations. But it has demonstrated how a small but dedicated
team of professionals can still achieve significant results in raising awareness on
biodiversity and the national capacity to develop and manage protected areas. The list of
PGAP achievements is impressive ­ many of them are firsts for Morocco:
1.   Implemented an innovative project design with long-term objectives
2.   Strengthened and expanded the institutional organization
3.   Mainstreamed the protected areas agenda in the national policy dialogue
4.   Lobbied and provided support leading to the approval of the Protected Areas Law
5.   Established protected areas management training courses (a first for the region)
6.   Established new protected areas at Chekhar, Grouz, Tamga, Jbel Moussa, Khenifiss
7.   Contributed to the long-term sustainability of the national system of protected areas
8.   Developed management units, infrastructure, collaborative agreements, plans, etc.
9.   Created participative community groups and developed local Action Plans
10. Developed tools for monitoring and evaluating progress in the protected areas
11. Carried out activities with a significant impact on biodiversity and conservation
12. Developed a national strategy for the management of ungulates (a first in Morocco)


                                             21
13. Established an Information Education Communication unit (a first for the Ministry)
14. Supported the emergence of new advocacy and marketing skills for the environment
15. Built and equipped the first generation of ecomuseums & information centers in PAs
16. Contributed to unlocking the eco-tourism potential of protected areas
17. Developed the basis for the responsible and planned development of protected areas
18. Shifted the culture towards strategic partnerships in managing protected areas

Annex 10 looks at these achievements in more detail and proposes a course to build on
the lessons learned from these successes towards the preparation of a follow-on operation
with particular emphasis on the development of responsible, inclusive and planned eco-
tourism.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

Key extract from the Translation of the Borrower's ICR Summary (full text is in Annex 7)
Apart from the physical and/or quantitative aspect, the project has contributed to the
implementation of the national system of protected areas and gave an important impetus
to the preservation and management of ecosystems and globally significant species in
Morocco.

However, the system or the financial channel adopted did not use all the funds, even if
these funds were used for nearly 92%. It is actually a unique project in terms of
institutional and financial set up which includes 13 sites scattered throughout Morocco,
and as many officers, financial controllers and treasurers, making the coordination,
supervision and management difficult and costly.

Thus, for the future, the main lesson to be drawn at the end of this project is that for any
project related to natural resources conservation and sustainable participative
development, it is necessary and imperative to adopt a more flexible institutional and
financial framework, relevant enough to allow the maximum benefit from such a project
with national and global scope.

On the other hand, it is important to point out that the said Project remains an innovative
project for GEF in as much as it has allowed the reinforcement of the institutional
capacity of the Department in several sites at the national level, and this constitutes
presently an eligibility criteria for future projects to be financed by the GEF. This leads
us to understand that the Project anticipated GEF's present policy, since it was
formulated and implemented eight years ago.

If the Protected Areas Management Project has reinforced the national intervention
capacity regarding the protected areas, there is still more work ahead in order to


                                            22
consolidate the important knowledge gained through a new initiative which will affect the
cross-cutting axes hereafter. This work and vision will help in the debate for the
promulgation of a law on protected areas, which will constitute the base of operational
reinforcement of the protected areas national system.
   Development of a database of protected areas and inclusion of national parks created;
   Continued support to training component and reinforcement of capacity and
   knowledge especially at the level of the two forestry training institutions through the
   reinforcement of the newly created center of excellence within the framework of the
   Project;
   Support to the implementation of the communication strategy;
   Development and support to the monitoring and evaluation system thus developed;
   Support to the management planning of the protected areas national network;
   Support to the strategic partnership component with the main contributors;
   Support to the implementation of the Protected Areas Master Plan developed in 1996.

All the cross-cutting axes deserve to be consolidated during the next five years to allow
for a more advanced implementation of the protected areas national system and a
sustainability of globally significant natural ecosystems and species.

To that aim and so that the whole knowledge which constitutes the main pillars of the
development and enhanced value of Morocco biodiversity, it is important to coordinate
all efforts made for the implementation of a second phase project (PGAP II) or a new
initiative with a new framework which will enable the guarantee of its success thanks to
the acquired experience and the lessons drawn. This new initiative will be based on the
project closure recommendations and will concern the above-mentioned cross-cutting
axes in addition to the two important sites located on the Mediterranean coast, i.e., Al
Hoceima National Park and SIBE of Jbel Moussa in Tangiers.

For these two sites, the following conclusions were drawn at the end of the Project:

Al Hoceima National Park :
   The Park has both a sea and land components;
   Management Plan for the sea component was established with other partners'
   cooperation;
   The Park has an exceptional biodiversity as well as protected natural coastal
   landscapes which makes it important at the Mediterranean and world levels;
   The Park is part of a protected areas Mediterranean network supported by the CAR-
   ASP program ("Regional Activities Center of Specially Protected Areas" based in
   Tunis) which is financed the Mediterranean program;




                                            23
   The park benefits from a very developed community network which has privileged
   contacts with local stakeholders, and national and foreign organizations who support
   the technical financial plans;
   Tourism investment projects which could affect the future of the park and its
   attractive landscapes are being prepared and could have negative impacts if nothing is
   done immediately at the Moroccan and Mediterranean levels.
   The Park management unit was not implemented during the project for administrative
   reasons.

SIBE of Jbel Moussa in Tangier:
   The site Jbel Moussa is situated in a corridor passage of migratory birds, therefore it
   has an indisputable importance for the protection of a bird heritage of global
   significance;
   The site also includes a marine and a surface portions including all the wealth of
   exceptional importance in terms of biodiversity; diagnostics studies recently carried
   out under the PGAP for the development of the Management Plan of the site showed
   that the sector Jbel Moussa is among the few sites in Morocco that have a biological
   ascent considering the conservation and preservation of the site;
   The site has several advantages over the biological, ecological and cultural landscape
   that deserve special attention to ensure their durability and sustainability;
   The site falls within the framework of a fairly advanced project currently on the
   Andalusia (Spain) and Morocco (Northern Morocco) transcontinental biosphere
   reserve, and thus the Jbel Moussa reserve is a site of Mediterranean importance as the
   National Park of Al Hoceima;
   The Department of Forestry plans to raise it in national Park in 2009;
   The great project of Tangier Med Port funded and managed by the Agency TMSA
   gives particular importance to this project and envisions to expand its base (site of
   Jbel Moussa) in the framework of the management plan of the Straits moving from an
   area of 4,000 ha to more than 12,000 ha;
   The possibility of establishing a strategic partnership with that harbor Agency is
   considered, and the first phases of this initiative have already been initiated;
   Like the national park of Al Hoceima, real estate investment and tourism projects that
   could jeopardize the future of this site and its extraordinary wealth are underway, and
   it is extremely urgent to intervene to prevent the degradation of the biodiversity of
   Jbel Moussa.

For all these reasons and many others, it would be desirable to include these two sites in
the framework of a new initiative (Development of protected areas project in Morocco) in
order to strengthen the achievements of the PGAP, and consolidate the protection and
preservation of their natural and cultural wealth of regional and global significance.



                                           24
These two sites could be an overall conservation of biodiversity in the Mediterranean
region by creating a network (Mediterranean network of protected areas) and developing
partnerships between countries of the region.


(b) Cofinanciers

None


(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders

None




                                         25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                            Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                               millions)
CAPACITY BUILDING                             3.20                  4.23         132%
NATIONAL PARKS                                                      3.43
                                              6.80                               81%
MANAGEMENT PLANS                                                    2.05*
RESERVES DEVELOPMENT                          3.50                  3.43         98%
PUBLIC AWARENESS AND
                                              0.60                1.28           213%
EDUCATION

            Total Baseline Cost              14.10                 -
Physical Contingencies                        0.50                 -
Price Contingencies                           1.10                 -
             Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)            0.00                 -
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                 -
      Total Financing Required               15.70                14.43          92%

* Costs of Personnel and Community Participation


(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                     4.10       4.46       109%
Beneficiaries                                                1.10       1.10       100%
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                          10.50        8.87        84%

Note: The GEF disbursement figure is still preliminary since the project has been granted
an extension to the grace period (until December 31, 2008) to finalize all outstanding
payments.




                                                26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                                                               OUTPUTS



      Résultats Attendus                           Activités Prévues                                      Etat d'Avancement                                          Commentaires


   Composante 1. Renforcement des capacités nationales
   1.1 Appui à la gestion du projet
                                    1.   Application d'un système de gestion financière   1.    Les procédures des suivi financier sont mises         Avec le retard accusé dans la finalisation du
                                         rigoureuse et efficace.                                en place et appliquées régulièrement ;                budget 2008 il est fort probable qu'il n'aura pas
                                    2.   Assurer l'apurement des dépenses en              2.    Le budget 2008 a été visé en fin avril, fait qui a    la possibilité de liquider touts les payements en
                                         instance de débit sur le compte spécial du             amené à des retards dans les délégations des          instance avant la fin du projet
   1.1.1 Amélioration de la              projet.                                                crédits aux sous-ordonnateurs ;                       La disponibilité financière du SEGMA reste
   gestion et du suivi financier                                                                                                                      insuffisante pour faire face aux besoins
   du projet.                       3.   Poursuite des efforts de coordination et de      3.    En fin avril aucun payement n'a pas pu être
                                         collaboration avec la Trésorerie Régionale de          encore exécuté ;                                      exprimés en matière de mandatement
                                         Rabat.                                                                                                       Le montant total de payements à effectuer
                                                                                                                                                      avant la fin du projet est d'environ 21 millions
                                                                                                                                                      de Dirham

                                    1.   Mise à point d'une application informatique      1.    L'application informatique sur Access pour le         Programmer et finaliser les missions de terrain
                                         adaptée aux besoins de suivi évaluation du             suivi financier du projet a été réalisée et           en vu de l'évaluation finale du projet
                                         PGAP (p.ex. sur plate-forme Access).                   actuellement est opérationnelle
   1.1.2 Renforcement du            2.   Développement et mise en oeuvre d'un             2.    Aucune mission au niveau des sites n'a pas
   système de suivi évaluation.          système de reportage et de traitement des              encore été effectuée
                                         données adapté au suivi des indicateurs de       3.    Les Fiches action pour le suivi des actions du
                                         performance du PGAP.                                   PGAP ne sont pas transmises régulièrement à
                                    3.   Suivi régulier des procédures adoptées.                la CGP par les sous-ordonnateurs.
                                    1.   Attribution progressive des dossiers du PGAP     1.    Les activités du PGAP sont prises en charge
   1.1.3 Amélioration de                 au personnel de la DPRN.                               par la Division des Parcs et Réserves
   l'intégration des activités du                                                               Naturelles
                                    2.   Renforcement des capacités de gestion            2.    Une assistante administrative a été mise à la
   PGAP aux structures
                                         administrative et financière de la CGP.                disposition de la CGP dans le cadre du contrat
   pérennes du HC.
                                                                                                d'assistance technique




                                                                                                   27
   Résultats Attendus                          Activités Prévues                                      Etat d'Avancement                                        Commentaires

                                1.   Mise en oeuvre des conventions de partenariat    1.    voir les sections 4.2 et 3.6.1                      Le HCEFLCD a entamé plusieurs initiatives de
                                     existants (ONG apex, WWF Medpo, Conseil          2.    Des conventions spécifiques pour la mise en          partenariat. Cette démarche est très positive et
                                     régional Tanger Tétouan, etc.).                        place des Pays d'Accueil Touristique ont été         à encourager
                                2.   Finalisation de la convention et du Plan               finalisées avec le Département du Tourisme et       L'étude sur les ongulés est considérée
                                     d'action commun avec le Ministère du                   les autres parties prenantes (Provinces d'azilal     d'importance stratégique par tous les
                                     Tourisme visant le développement du                    pour le SIBE de Tamga, Al Hoceima pour le            intervenants dans ce secteur.
1.1.4 Mise en oeuvre de              tourisme rural durable autour des AP.                  Parc national d'Al Hoceima, Chefchaouen
partenariats stratégiques et    3.   Négociation et formalisation d'autre                   pour le SIBE de Bouhachem)
d'initiatives transversales.         conventions de partenariat stratégique (TMSA, 3.       Une convention de partenariat avec la Région
                                     ECWP, etc.).                                           Tanger Tétouan, la TMSA et les autres
                                4.   Elaboration d'un plan d'action pour la gestion         départements concernés est en cours de
                                     des ongulés au Maroc.                                  finalisation pour la gestion du site de Jbel
                                                                                            Moussa et les zones tampon
                                                                                      4.    Le rapport final a été finalisé et approuvé par
                                                                                            le comité de pilotage

1.2 Programme de formation

                                1.   Préparation et exécution, à titre expérimental    L'option du troisième cycle « Gestion des Aires          La mise en place de l'option est considérée
                                     des modules de formation « Gestion des Aires      Protégées » à été officiellement crée par arrêté         d'une importance stratégique primordiale pour
                                     Protégées » durant l'année académique 2005-       Ministériel                                              le secteur des aires protégées au Maroc
                                     06.                                               Onze étudiants (dont 6 ont obtenu le diplôme             Plusieurs Pays méditerranéens et africains ont
                                                                                       en juin 2007 et 5 vont discuter leur thèse de fin        pris contact avec l'ENFI pour mettre en place
1.2.1 Développement et mise                                                            études en juin 2008) ont bénéficié de l'option.          des initiatives de collaboration
en place d'une option de        2.   Evaluation du cursus et finalisation des
spécialisation du troisième          modules et du manuel en appui à la formation      Pour l'année académique 2007-2008, six                   Les deux modules pour l'ITREF ont été
cycle au niveau de l'ENFI et         des gestionnaires des aires protégées,            nouveaux étudiants                                       finalisés et intégrés dans le curriculum de
des modules de formation au          décrivant les méthodologies d'apprentissage       L'atelier d'évaluation a été tenu en novembre            l'école des techniciens
niveau de l'ITREF.                   et de suivi-évaluation.                           2006. Le curriculum et le syllabus de l'option a
                                                                                       été finalisé et validé
                                                                                       Deux modules pour un total de 42 heures ont
                                3.   Accompagnement et appui à l'exécution de          été dispensés aux étudiants de la deuxième
                                     l'option pendant l'année académique 2006-07.      année de l'ITREF (mai 2007)

                                1.   Exécution de deux ateliers de formation au        1.                              L'exécution de la        En 2008, les deux modules sont à intégrer
1.2.2 Développement et               niveau de deux aires protégées                         première session de formation a été faite en        officiellement dans le programme de formation
exécution de deux modules       2.   Evaluation de la formation et finalisation des         novembre 2007 (mise en place d'une aire             continue du HCEFLCD
bisannuels de formation              méthodes de formation.                                 protégée), le deuxième module est programmé
continue au bénéfice des                                                                    pour le 13 juin 2008 (gouvernance et gestion
gestionnaires des AP                                                                        participative d'une aire protégée)
(« processus de mise en                                                                2.                              Une évaluation de la
place d'une aire protégée» et                                                               première session de formation a été faite. Pour
«gestion participative»)                                                                    la seconde session, elle le sera à l'issue de
                                                                                            celle ci.




                                                                                               28
   Résultats Attendus                           Activités Prévues                                    Etat d'Avancement                                      Commentaires

                                 1.   Développement de la structure                   1.   Le programme du premier séminaire du pole
                                      organisationnelle du Pole et élargissement de        d'excellence au vu de sa mise en place
                                      l'équipe.                                            officielle a été validé en décembre 2007.
                                                                                      2.   Le centre de documentation est en phase de
                                 2.   Mise en place d'un centre de documentation           constitution
                                      sur les aires protégées au niveau de l'ENFI.
                                 3.   Constitution d'un réseau de personnes et
1.2.3 Constitution d'un « Pole        d'institutions impliquées par la thématique     3.   Plusieurs experts / Chercheurs ont exprimé le
d'Excellence de formateurs »          « aires protégées ».                                 souhait de participer au pole d'excellence
sur les aires protégées et
animation d'un Forum sur les     4.   Promotion et animation d'un débat (forum) sur
                                      les aires protégées du Maroc.                   4.   et 5 : Un premier séminaire, qui est sensé être
aires protégées du Maroc.                                                                  fondateur du pole et du forum sur les aires
                                 5.   Organisation d'événements (séminaires,
                                      ateliers, rencontres, etc..) centrés sur les         protégées, est programmé pour mi-juin 2008
                                      problématiques du développement durable et
                                      la promotion des aires protégées.               5.   L'élaboration du manuel est en cours de
                                                                                           finalisation (juin 2008)
                                 6.   Elaboration d'un Manuel de Gestion des Aires
                                      Protégées au Maroc.
1.3 Base de données et SIG
                                 1.   Evaluation du SIG réalisé pendant la phase      1.   L'évaluation a été exécutée et le rapport remis    La présentation du schéma de la base de
                                      initiale du PGAP et recentrage de sa                 en juin 2006                                       données sur les aires protégées a été faite le
                                      conception.                                                                                             23 octobre 2007
                                 2.   Analyse de la configuration du SIG et           2.   l'acquisition de nouveaux logiciels SIG et la      La finalisation de la structure de la base de
                                      acquisition d'éventuels compléments de               mise à jour des logiciels existants est prévue     données est faite en mi-novembre, puis elle a
                                      hardware/software.                                   pour 2008                                          été validée par le comité du HCEFLCD fin de
                                                                                                                                              l'année 2008.
                                 3.   Conception d'une banque de données
                                      intégrant le meta-catalogue de données       3 et 4 : Trois consultants individuels ont été             Le développement de l'interface informatique
1.3.1 Renforcement du                 conçue pendant la phase initiale du PGAP.    recrutés pour la conception et la finalisation de la       est en cours de réalisation.
Système d'Information                                                              base de données géo référencées sur les aires              Le démarrage des modules de formation a été
Géographique (SIG) et de la      4.   Elaboration et mise en oeuvre d'un programme protégées du Maroc et la formation du personnel.
                                      pour le renforcement du SIG/ base de                                                                    programmé à partir de mi-novembre 2007
base de données sur les AP
du Maroc.                             données sur les AP du Maroc en collaboration
                                      avec les partenaires scientifiques du HC.    Les consultants ont commencé leur travail en fin
                                                                                   2007. La structure de la base de données sur les
                                                                                   AP a été fournie. Le consultant est en train
                                                                                   d'intégrer les données relatives aux aires
                                                                                   protégées. Le second consultant est en train de
                                                                                   développer l'interface informatique afin de pouvoir
                                                                                   établir les requêtes nécessaires.

                                                                                      Le produit final sera remis fin juin 2008.




                                                                                              29
   Résultats Attendus                           Activités Prévues                                        Etat d'Avancement                                      Commentaires

                                 1.   Identification d'éventuels compléments              1.   L'acquisition des images satellitaires est en      La cellule SIG de la DPRN a atteint une bonne
                                      d'images satellitaires des SIBE prioritaires et          cours                                              capacité en matière de l'élaboration de produits
                                      des parcs nationaux et leur acquisition.                                                                    cartographiques.
                                 2.   Traitement et ortho rectification des images        2.   Les images satellitaires en possession de la       Les nouvelles images satellitaires en cours
                                      satellitaires des SIBEs/parcs nationaux.                 CGP ont été ortho- rectifiées                      d'acquisition vont permettre d'actualiser les
1.3.2 Cartographie assistée                                                                                                                       données déjà existantes sur les sites du projet
                                 3.   Relevés de terrain pour la correction des           3.   Aucune activité supplémentaire n'a pas été
des SIBE prioritaires et des                                                                                                                      PGAP.
                                      images et la collecte de données                         exécutée depuis septembre 2006
parcs nationaux.
                                      georéférencés complémentaires.                      4.   La cartographie Thématique des cinq SIBEs
                                 4.   Appui à la finalisation des cartes de base et            objet des PAG a été réalisée.
                                      thématiques relatives aux plans de gestion
                                      des cinq SIBE prioritaires et l'actualisation des
                                      plans de gestion des parcs nationaux.

Composante 2. Gestion des Parcs
2.1 Parc National du Toubkal (PNT)

                                 1.   Réalisation de la cartographie de base du           1.   Aucune activité n'a été exécutée.                  Le Plan d'action triennal sera soumis à
                                      Parc et d'une première série de cartes              2.   Deux études sont en cours de réalisation : (i)     l'approbation du Haut Commissaire le 11 juin
                                      thématiques avec le concours de la cellule               Mouflon à manchettes : Recherche de                2008
                                      SIG (voir aussi section 1.3).                            groupes reproducteurs hors Réserve
                                 2.   Réalisation d'études de diagnostic                       Zoologique de Takherkhort, en période de rut,
                                      complémentaires pour actualiser le profil                et évaluation de l'occupation de l'ensemble du
2.1.1 Actualisation du plan de        environnemental et socioéconomique du Parc.              territoire du PNT par l'espèce, en période
gestion du PNT.                  3.   Intégration des résultats des études                     printanière ; (ii) Etude bibliographique,
                                      complémentaires, actualisation du zonage et              écologique et démographique de la population
                                      formulation d'options de gestion concertés               de Singe Magot du Haut Ourika
                                      avec les principaux acteurs.
                                 4.   Actualisation et validation du plan de gestion      3. ­4. : Un Plan d'Action Triennal a été finalisé et
                                      et exécution d'actions de conservation/             validé par le CCAP en fin décembre 2007
                                      valorisation de l'AP.

                                 1.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits         1.   Suite à l'atelier de recentrage du programme       Le Parc National du Toubkal est appuyé par le
                                      Dons (voir section 4.2).                                 des Petits Dons, il a été décidé de ne pas         projet PRONA-LCD qui se chargera du suivi de
                                 2.   Développement de plans d'action                          financer de nouveaux projets de PPD dans le        la mise en oeuvre des PAC et des Plans
                                      communautaires (PAC) ciblant les principaux              parc.                                              Triennaux
                                      vallées/ douars et groupes d'utilisateurs du        2.   Le plan d'action communautaire a été intégré
2.1.2 Renforcement et                 Parc.                                                    dans le Plan d'action triennal
formalisation de la gestion
                                 3.   Formalisation d'accords pilotes pour la
partenariale des ressources
                                      cogestion des ressources naturelles dans les        3.   Les deux contrats d'actions communautaires
naturelles du PNT
                                      zones prioritaires.                                      engagés en 2006 sont en cours
                                 4.   Appui à la mise en oeuvre des PACs et à la               d'achèvement.
                                      mise en place d'activités génératrices de
                                      revenues                                            4.   A prévoir dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre
                                                                                               du Plan d'action triennal



                                                                                                  30
   Résultats Attendus                           Activités Prévues                                       Etat d'Avancement                                          Commentaires

                                 1.   Finalisation de la mise en place de sentiers,       1.   Les actions sont en cours de réalisation. Les        Mise en fonction de l'écomusée est prévue
                                      structures d'accueil et du système de                    plans des portes d'entré du Parc ont été             en octobre 2008.
                                      signalisation du parc.                                   réalisés, mais l'action n'a pas été entamée.         La gestion des visiteurs dans le PN du Toubkal
                                 2.   Mise en fonction de l'écomusée d'Asni dont          2.   Les activités pour la réalisation de l'habillage     reste une problématique majeure
                                      l'habillage est en cours de réalisation (confié à        de l'écomusée sont en cours de finalisation.
                                      SPANA).                                                  Avant de la mise en place de l'exposition, il est
                                 3.   Ouverture aux visiteurs de la réserve à                  nécessaire de réaliser des travaux de
                                      mouflon d'Amassin                                        réhabilitation (étanchéité) du bâtiment de
                                                                                               l'écomusée.
                                 4.   Réalisation d'un programme pilote de visites
                                      guidées du parc à l'intention des écoliers et       3.   Les travaux d'aménagement de la réserve
2.1.3 Appui à la gestion des
                                      étudiants.                                               sont en cours de réception
visiteurs et à la valorisation
éco touristique du PNT           5.   Mise en place d'un système de gestion des           4.   Le contrat avec le formateur a du être
                                      visiteurs en collaboration avec le Bureau des            réengagé. La formation sera dispensée avant
                                      guides du PNT.                                           fin mai 2008
                                 6.   Appui à l'actualisation et application de la        5.   Aucune action concrète a été réalisée
                                      charte de bonne conduite développée par des
                                      opérateurs privés dans la zone d'Imlil.             6.   Aucune activité n'a été exécutée
                                 7.   Catalyser la recherche de sponsors privés
                                      pour le développement d'initiative
                                      d'écotourisme durable et solidaire dans la
                                      région du parc.                                     7.   Aucune activité n'a été exécutée
2.2 Parc National du Haut Atlas Oriental (PNHAO)
                                 1.   Définition de la structure organisationnelle, du    1.   Le processus de restructuration des services         La mise en place de la Direction permettra
                                      découpage administratif et des fonctions et              extérieurs du HCEFLCD est en cours. La               d'affronter avec plus d'efficacité le montage
                                      tâches du personnel du parc.                             structure organisationnelle du PN HAO sera           organisationnel du Parc
                                                                                               définie après l'achèvement de la                     Dans un point de vue administratif,
                                                                                               restructuration des services extérieurs du           l'achèvement de la restructuration des services
                                                                                               HCEFLCD                                              extérieur du HCEFLCD reste fondamental pour
                                 2.   Affectation/ redéploiement de personnel des         2.   Le Directeur du PN est désigné depuis janvier        la gestion du PN du HAO
                                      E&F sur la base de la structure                          2008 et il est opérationnel au niveau de la
2.2.1 Appui au                        organisationnelle agrée.                                 direction du parc récemment construite à Rich
développement                    3.   Mise en fonction de la direction du PNHAO,               depuis cette date.
organisationnel et à la mise          des postes de surveillance et d'autres              3.   La construction et l'équipement de la Direction
en place de la structure de           infrastructures - engagé sous le PAA 05.                 du Parc à Rich sont achevés.
gestion du PNHAO
                                 4.   Mise en place d'un complément                       4.   Les besoins actuels en termes
                                      d'infrastructures/ équipement de base pour la            d'infrastructures et équipements ont été
                                      gestion du parc.                                         entièrement réalisés
                                 5.   Réalisation et mise en fonction d'un centre         5.   Les travaux de construction du centre
                                      d'information à Imelchil, en partenariat et avec         d'information ont démarré en septembre 2007.
                                      les associations locales.                                Le contrat pour la conception de l'exposition
                                                                                               est en cours de finalisation et l'exposition sera
                                                                                               réalisée fin juin 2008.




                                                                                                  31
   Résultats Attendus                           Activités Prévues                                  Etat d'Avancement                                       Commentaires

                                 1.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits    1.   Le programme des petits dons a été relancé            Le développement d'une démarche
                                      Dons (voir section 4.2).                            en août 2007. Dix-huit micro projets ont été        partenariale avec les populations locales reste
                                                                                          identifiés et démarreront en novembre 2007          un aspect fondamental pour le PN HAO
                                 2.   Développement de plans d'action                2.   Le PAC est a été élaboré par l'équipe du Parc.
                                      communautaires (PAC) ciblant les principaux         Il serait souhaitable de le finaliser et de
2.2.2 Renforcement et                 vallées/ douars et groupes d'utilisateurs du        l'intégrer dans le plan d'action triennal en
formalisation de la gestion           Parc.                                               cours de préparation.
partenariale des ressources                                                          3.   Aucune activité n'a pas été réalisée
naturelles du PNHAO              3.   Formalisation d'accords pilotes pour la
                                      cogestion des ressources naturelles dans les   4.   Les PAC feront partie du Plan d'Action
                                      zones prioritaires.                                 Triennal en cours d'élaboration
                                 4.   Appui à la mise en oeuvre des PACs et à la
                                      mise en place d'activités génératrices de
                                      revenu.

                                 1.   Réalisation de la cartographie de base du      1.   La Direction du Parc appuyé par la Division
                                      Parc et d'une première série de cartes              des Parcs et Réserves Naturelles élaborera
2.2.3 Actualisation du plan de        thématiques avec le concours de la cellule          un Plan d'Action triennal avant fin juin 2008
gestion du PNHAO                      SIG (voir aussi section 1.3).
(premières demarches)            2.   Réalisation d'études de diagnostic
                                      complémentaires pour actualiser le profil
                                      environnemental et socioéconomique du Parc.
2.3 Parc National d'Al Hoceima (PNAH)
                                 1.   Réalisation de la cartographie de base du       1. ­ 3. : Un premier projet de Plan d'Action          L'approbation du Plan d'Action Triennal est
                                      Parc et d'une première série de cartes         Triennal a été élaboré par la Direction du Parc en     prévue pour le second trimestre 2008
                                      thématiques avec le concours de la cellule     collaboration avec la Division des Parcs et
                                      SIG (voir aussi section 1.3).                  Réserves
2.3.1 Intégration de la          2.   Réalisation d'études de diagnostic
composante marine et                  complémentaires pour actualiser le profil
actualisation du plan de              environnementale et socioéconomique de la
gestion du PNAH                       partie terrestre du Parc.
                                 3.   Séances avec les partenaires impliqués dans
                                      la gestion de la composante marine du Parc
                                      (département des pêches maritimes, ...)




                                                                                             32
   Résultats Attendus                          Activités Prévues                                       Etat d'Avancement                                         Commentaires

                                1.   Définition de la structure organisationnelle, du   1.   Pas encore réalisé. Voir section 2.2.1               Les travaux de construction de la direction du
                                     découpage administratif et des fonctions et             (PNHAC)                                              Parc National ont été annulés, à cause du
                                     tâches du personnel du parc.                                                                                 changement tardif du site d'emplacement.
                                2.   Affectation/ redéploiement de personnel des        2.   Pas réalisé, en attente de la définition de la
2.3.2 Appui au                       E&F sur la base de la structure                         structure de gestion du Parc
développement                        organisationnelle agrée.
organisationnel et à la mise
                                3.   Mise en fonction de la direction du PNA, du
en place de la structure de                                                             3.   Tous les contrats des travaux pour la
                                     poste marin de Cala Iris et des autres
gestion du PNA                                                                               réalisation des infrastructures ont été annulés
                                     infrastructures - engagées sous le PAA 05.
                                4.   Mise en place d'un complément
                                     d'infrastructures/ équipement de base pour la
                                     gestion du parc.

                                1.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits        1.   La deuxième phase du programme des petits            Le dialogue avec les populations et les
                                     Dons (voir section 4.2).                                dons a été lancée en août 2007. 21                    associations locales a été relancé. Il est
                                2.   Développement de plans d'action                         microprojets de petits dons ont été identifiés et     important de poursuive les efforts et les
                                     communautaires (PAC) ciblant les principaux             réalisés au niveau du Parc                            activités
2.3.3 Renforcement et                douars et groupes d'utilisateurs du Parc.          2.   Le PAC a été intégré dans le projet du Plan
formalisation de la gestion                                                                  d'Action Triennal
                                3.   Formalisation d'accords pilotes pour la
partenariale des ressources
                                     cogestion des ressources naturelles dans les
naturelles du PNA
                                     zones prioritaires.                                3.   La réalisation d'un espace de récréation /
                                4.   Appui à la mise en oeuvre des PACs et à la              d'information environnementale a été
                                     mise en place d'activités génératrices de               aménagé au niveau de la forêts de Hrirt.
                                     revenu.

Composante 3. Gestion des SIBEs
3.1 Lagune de Khnifiss
                                1.   Finalisation des études de diagnostic et des        Le Plan d'Aménagement et de Gestion a été
                                     études complémentaires entamées en 2005.            finalisé et validé par le comité. Il sera soumis à       Un système de suivi écologique de la
                                2.   Intégration des résultats des études                l'approbation du HC le 11 juin 2008                      biodiversité a été élaboré par un consultant
3.1.1 Finalisation et mise en        complémentaires et formulation d'options de         Un atelier de concertation avec les parties              engagé par le PGAP et sera mis en place après
oeuvre du plan de gestion du         gestion concertée avec les principaux acteurs.      prenantes du PN a été tenu en avril 2007.                une phase de test en cours avant fin juin 2008
SIBE                            3.   Validation et adoption du plan de gestion.
                                4.   Programmation et mise en oeuvre d'actions de
                                     conservation et de valorisation du SIBE
                                     suivant le plan de gestion adopté.




                                                                                                33
   Résultats Attendus                         Activités Prévues                                       Etat d'Avancement                                        Commentaires

                              1.   Mise en fonction des infrastructures et de           1.   Les travaux pour la réalisation des                L'aire protégée est dotée des infrastructures et
                                   l'équipement de base - engagé sous le PAA                 infrastructures ont été achevés                    de l'équipement de base nécessaire à une
                                   05.                                                                                                          gestion efficace
                              2.   Affectation d'un complément de personnel des         2.   Un ingénieur et un technicien sont affectés au
                                   E&F.                                                      site. Deux gardiens ont été aussi affectés.
3.1.2 Renforcement de l'Unité                                                                affectés
de Gestion du SIBE.           3.   Mise en place d'une unité mobile pour la             3.   Cette action n'a pas été entamée
                                   surveillance et le suivi de la partie lagunaire et
                                   marine du SIBE.
                              4.   Mise en place d'une unité mobile pour la             4.   Cette action n'a pas été entamée
                                   surveillance et le suivi de la partie désertique
                                   du SIBE.

                              1.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits          1.   La deuxième phase du programme des Petits          Existe un dialogue très constructif entre les
                                   Dons (voir section 4.2).                                  Dons a été lancée le 25 octobre (première          services des Eaux et Forêts et les parties
                              2.   Développement et mise en oeuvre d'un plan                 mission de l'ONG APEX). Un animateur est           prenantes du PN de Khnifiss (association,
3.1.3 Renforcement et              d'action communautaire (PAC) ciblant les                  affecté au PN pour le suivi du programme.          administrations, ONG, etc..)
formalisation de la gestion        principaux groupes d'utilisateurs du SIBE.       2.       Le PAC a été élaboré (deux missions du
partenariale des ressources                                                                  socio-économiste) et intégré dans le PAG
                              3.   Développement d'activités génératrices de
naturelles du SIBE
                                   revenu et formalisation d'accord pilotes pour la 3.       12 microprojets de PPD ont été identifiés et
                                   cogestion des ressources naturelles                       sont en cours de réalisation.
                                   (particulièrement Naila).

                              1.   Finalisation et mise en fonction des structures      1.   Le bâtiment pour le centre d'information a été        Les pêcheurs et des opérateurs privés sont
                                   d'accueil à l'intention des visiteurs entamés en          réalisé. La conception de l'habillage est            déjà actifs dans la lagune (pêche et vision).
                                   2005 dans la zone de Naila.                               élaborée et en cours de validation. La             Des produits de randonnés et bivouacs au
                                                                                             réalisation des expositions est prévue pour fin    désert sont en cours de développement
                                                                                             juin 2008.
                              2.   Appui aux opérateurs et aux associations                                                                     Un parking a été aménagé à l'entrée de la
                                   locales dans la mise à point de services             2.   Le tour de familiarisation au profit des           lagune de Naila, pour empêcher les véhicules
3.1.4 Valorisation                 écotouristiques axés sur la lagune et le désert.          associations locales a été réalisé en fin          d'accéder à proximité de la lagune.
écotouristique du SIBE                                                                       décembre 2007. La formation des guides n'a
                              3.   Appui à la promotion et la commercialisation              pas été exécutée. Le contrat a été annulé en
                                   du produit écotouristique Khnifiss.                       fin 2007.

                                                                                        3.   un projet de PPD est en cours de réalisation
                                                                                             pour le démarrage de la commercialisation
                                                                                             d'un produit de terroir.




                                                                                                34
   Résultats Attendus                         Activités Prévues                                      Etat d'Avancement                                       Commentaires

3.2 Tamga
                               1.   Nomination d'un responsable du SIBE et             1.   Le SIBE dispose du personnel nécessaire à          Les structures réalisées seront achevées avant
                                    affectation de personnel des E&F.                       une gestion convenable. Un nouvel ingénieur        la fin du projet
                                                                                            parmi les lauréats de l'ENFI, option GAP
                               2.   Finalisation des infrastructures et équipement          lancée par le PGAP a été affecté                   Ces structures ont été Réalisées
                                    de l'unité de gestion.                                                                                     convenablement et contribueront à la
                                                                                       2.   Tous les travaux pour la réalisation des           valorisation écotouristique di SIBE
                               3.   Réalisation de sentiers et de structures                infrastructures ont été achevés
                                    légères pour l'accueil des visiteurs.
3.2.1 Opérationnalisation de                                                           3.   Le sentier pédestre de la cathédrale a été
l'unité de gestion du SIBE                                                                  réalisé. La signalétique est en place.
auprès du poste forestier de                                                                L'aménagement paysager des espaces
Tamga                          4.   Habillage et mise en fonction de l'info-kiosque.        extérieurs du centre d'information a été
                                                                                            entamé en 2007 et achevé en avril 2008.
                                                                                       4.   La réalisation de l'habillage est en cours
                               5.   Production d'outils d'information.                      d'achèvement
                                                                                       5.   Des outils d'information, type brochure,
                                                                                            dépliant et affiche ont été engagé en 2007 et
                                                                                            réalisé en mai 2008

                               1.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits        1.   Le programme de Petits Dons a été relancé          Le dialogue avec les populations locales reste
                                    Dons (voir section 4.2).                                (deuxième phase). Un animateur a été affecté       un aspect fondamental du SIBE
                                                                                            au SIBE pour le suivi du programme
                               2.   Développement et mise en oeuvre d'un plan                                                                  Le programme des Petits Dons, peut contribuer
3.2.2 Renforcement et               d'action communautaire (PAC) ciblant les           2.   Le PAC du SIBE a été finalisé intégré dans le      au développement des relations
formalisation de la gestion         principaux douars et groupes d'utilisateurs du          PAG                                                Il est souhaitable de collaborer avec l'INDH
partenariale des ressources         SIBE.                                                                                                      pour la mise en place de projets
naturelles du SIBE             3.   Développement d'activités génératrices de        3.     6 projets de PPD ont été identifiés et réalisés    communautaires dans le futur.
                                    revenu et formalisation d'accord pilotes pour la        par les associations locales.
                                    cogestion des ressources naturelles dans les
                                    zones prioritaires.

                               1.   Finalisation des études de diagnostic.             1.   Les rapports finaux des études ont été
                               2.   Formulation d'options de gestion concertées             finalisés et validés
3.2.3 Démarrage dans la             avec les principaux acteurs.                       2.   Le PAG a été finalisé et validé. Il sera soumis
mise en oeuvre du plan de      3.   Validation et adoption du plan de gestion.              à l'approbation du HC le 11 juin 2008
gestion du SIBE
                               4.   Programmation et mise en oeuvre d'actions de
                                    conservation et de valorisation du SIBE
                                    suivant le plan de gestion adopté.




                                                                                               35
   Résultats Attendus                            Activités Prévues                                       Etat d'Avancement                                         Commentaires

3.3 Jbel Moussa
                                 1.   Formalisation et mise en oeuvre du partenariat       1.   La convention de partenariat est en cours de         Pour ce SIBE il y a une opportunité de mettre
                                      avec la TMSA pour la gestion concerté du                  finalisation.                                        en place une véritable gestion partenariale
                                      SIBE, selon les objectifs du PGAP et du                                                                        avec le TMSA
                                      Schéma Directeur d'Aménagement et                                                                              Soumettre à la validation du comité le PAG
                                      d'Urbanisme (SDAU) du Détroit.
                                 2.   Appui à l'initiative en cours pour la constitution   2.   Cette initiative rentre dans le cadre de la
                                      d'une AP (parc national/ parc naturel) sur le             convention de partenariat (activité 1). Le projet
3.3.1 Mise en place d'une                                                                       de création d'un parc national/naturel sera
gestion partenariale du SIBE          prolongement méridional du SIBE.
                                                                                                préparé en 2009.
                                 3.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits
                                      Dons (voir section 4.2).
                                 4.   Finalisation et adoption du plan de gestion du       3.   Aucune action ne sera réalisée dans le cadre
                                      SIBE et exécution d'actions de conservation/              de la nouvelle convention avec les ONG APEX
                                      valorisation de l'AP.                                4.   Le PAG a été finalisé. Il sera soumis
                                                                                                prochainement à la validation du comité

                                 1.   Réalisation et équipement de la direction de         1.   Cette action a été annulée
                                      l'AP sur le site identifié auprès de l'oued
                                      Marsa.
3.3.2 Création et mise en        2.   Affectation à l'unité de gestion du SIBE d'un
fonction de l'unité de gestion                                                             2.   Pas encore affecté
                                      complément de personnel des E&F.
du SIBE                                                                                    3.   Aucune action n'a été réalisée à ce sujet
                                 3.   Mise en place d'une unité mobile pour la
                                      surveillance et le suivi de la partie marine du
                                      SIBE.

                                 1.   Réalisation d'un programme d'Information,            1.   Les actions engagées sous le programme des           D'autres actions de valorisation devront être
                                      Education, Communication (IEC), en                        Petits dons ont été réalisées.                       mises en place dans le cadre du partenariat
                                      partenariat avec les associations et les                                                                       avec la TMSA
                                      établissements éducatifs de la région.
                                 2.   Appui à la mise en place et à la diversification
3.3.3 Valorisation du SIBE                                                                 2.   des aménagements récréatifs ont été réalisés
                                      de l'offre écotouristique (plongée sous-marine,
comme plateforme éducative                                                                      en 2008 engagés dans le cadre du PAA 2007.
                                      bird watching, trekking...).
et récréative.                                                                                  Aménagement d'un sentier de randonnée et
                                 3.   Promotion du SIBE dans le contexte régional:              de deux plates formes d'observation.
                                      peri-urbain et transfrontalier (réserve de la
                                      biosphère transcontinentale Andalousie               3.   Deux contrats ont été signés en 2005 pour la
                                      Maroc).                                                   production de matériel informatif et la
                                                                                                réalisation d'un atelier d'information. Les
                                                                                                activités sont en cours de réalisation.




                                                                                                   36
   Résultats Attendus                          Activités Prévues                                       Etat d'Avancement                                     Commentaires

3.4 Chekhar
                                1.   Finalisation dans la mise en place des             1.   Toutes les infrastructures prévues ont été        Le site dispose des infrastructures de base
                                     infrastructures et de l'équipement de l'unité de        réalisées                                         pour une gestion convenable
                                     gestion du SIBE.                                                                                          Soumettre aux instances préposées le PAG
                                2.   Affectation d'un complément de personnel           2.   Un technicien supplémentaire a été affecté à      pour validation / approbation
                                     des E&F.                                                l'aire protégée (à vérifier)
                                3.   Mise en oeuvre d'un programme de                   3.   Les infrastructures ont été réalisées.
3.4.1 Opérationnalisation de         repeuplement et de suivi de la Gazelle de
l'unité de gestion du SIBE et        Cuvier à partir de la station créée au sein du
finalisation du plan de              SIBE.
gestion.                                                                                4.   Les études de diagnostic ont été finalisées et
                                4.   Finalisation des études de diagnostic et
                                     formulation d'options de gestion concertée              validées. Un atelier avec les acteurs locaux a
                                     avec les principaux acteurs.                            été réalisé en février 2008
                                5.   Validation et adoption du plan de gestion et       5.   Le PAG est finalisé (mars 2008)
                                     exécution d'actions de conservation/
                                     valorisation de l'AP.

                                1.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits        1.   Aucun nouveau petit don n'a été prévu pour ce
                                     Dons (voir section 4.2).                                site
                                2.   Développement et mise en oeuvre d'un plan
                                     d'action communautaire (PAC) ciblant les           2.   L'action prévue dans le Plan d'action 2006
                                     principaux douars et groupes d'utilisateurs du          ('"Appui à la création de services
3.4.2 Renforcement et
                                     SIBE (particulièrement plaines alfatières).             écotouristiques" impliquant la Coopérative
formalisation de la gestion
partenariale des ressources                                                                  Zituna/ Association El Ouahda) n'a pas pu être
naturelles du SIBE.                                                                          engagée en 2006. Elle a été reportée en 2007.
                                                                                             elle est en cours d'achèvement
                                3.   Développement d'activités génératrices de
                                                                                      3.     Cette action est liée à la finalisation de
                                     revenu et formalisation d'accord pilotes pour la
                                                                                             l'activité n° 2
                                     cogestion des ressources dans les zones
                                     prioritaires.

                                1.   Habillage et mise en fonction de l'info-kiosque    1.   La mise en place de l'habillage est en cours      Les deux petits dons identifiés par les
                                     et production d'outils d'information, en                de finalisation                                   gestionnaires du site ont l'objectif de
                                     partenariat avec les établissements éducatifs                                                             développement de partenariat avec les
                                     et les associations locales.                                                                              associations locales en matière de services
                               2.    Réalisation d'un complément de structures                                                                 écotouristiques et d'éducation
                                                                                        2.   Les travaux sont en cours d'achèvement            environnementale
3.4.3 Renforcement de la             d'accueil des visiteurs dans la zone de Jbel
vocation récréative/ éducative       Mahseur (extension proposés du SIBE).
du site et développement
                               3.    Elaboration et mise en oeuvre d'un programme
d'un Centre d'Initiation à                                                          3.       La formation a été réalisée
                                     de visites guidées à l'intention des jeunes de
l'Environnement.
                                     la colonie de vacances de Raslasfor.
                                4.   Appui à la création de services écotouristiques
                                     visant un public provenant des villes
                                     limitrophes (Oujda, Jerada, etc.) et de la côte    4.   Aucune action concrète n'a été exécutée.
                                     (p.ex. projet Fadesa à Saidia).



                                                                                                37
   Résultats Attendus                           Activités Prévues                                      Etat d'Avancement                                       Commentaires

3.5 Jbel Grouz
                                 1.   Redéfinition des limites de l'aire protégée au     1.   Aucune décision formelle n'a été prise à ces        Soumettre aux instances préposées le PAG
                                      nord et à l'ouest de l'actuel SIBE, vers la zone        jours                                               pour validation / approbation
                                      frontalière avec l'Algérie.
                                 2.   Finalisation des études de diagnostic et de la
                                      cartographie de la zone d'extension proposée.      2.   Les études de diagnostic ont été finalisées et
3.5.1 Redéfinition des limites
                                                                                              validées.
du SIBE et finalisation du
plan de gestion                  3.   Formulation d'options de gestion concertée
                                      avec les principaux acteurs.
                                 4.   Validation et adoption du plan de gestion et       3.   Un atelier avec les acteurs locaux a été réalisé
                                      exécution d'actions de conservation/                    en février 2008
                                      valorisation de l'AP.                              4.   Le PAG est finalisé (avril 2008)
                                 1.   Affectation/ redéploiement de personnel des        1.   Un technicien a été affecté au site
                                      E&F.
                                 2.   Finalisation des infrastructures et équipement     2.   La mise en place des infrastructures et des
                                      de l'unité de gestion.                                  équipements du SITE est achevée
                                                                                         3.   Le contrat est en cours
3.5.2 Opérationnalisation de     3.   Habillage et mise en fonction de l'info-kiosque         d'achèvement/réalisation.
l'unité de gestion du SIBE.           de Figuig en partenariat avec les
                                      établissements éducatifs et les associations
                                      locales.
                                 4.   Mise en oeuvre d'un système de surveillance
                                      et de suivi des ongulés et de l'outarde            4.   Aucune action n'a pas été entreprise.
                                      Houbara en collaboration avec l'EWCP.
                                 1.   Recentrage et extension du Programme Petits        1.   Aucun petit don n'est prévu dans le cadre de
                                      Dons (voir section 4.2).                                la nouvelle convention avec les ONG APEX
                                 2.   Développement et mise en oeuvre d'un plan          2.   Aucune action n'a été finalisation. Le plan de
                                      d'action communautaire (PAC) ciblant les                gestion dégage des propositions à ce sujet.
3.5.3 Mise en place d'une             principaux groupes d'utilisateurs (p.ex.
gestion partenariale du SIBE          coopératives d'éleveurs nomades).
                                 3.   Appui à l'identification/ formulation         3.        Aucune action n'a été entreprise à ce sujet. Le
                                      d'interventions d'éco-développement durable à           plan de gestion dégage des propositions à ce
                                      soumettre à d'autres bayeurs de fonds (p.ex.            sujet.
                                      coopération Emirates Arabes Unis).




                                                                                                 38
   Résultats Attendus                              Activités Prévues                                           Etat d'Avancement                                       Commentaires

3.6 Moyen Atlas : Jbel Tichoukt, Bou Naceur, Bou Iblane
                                   Evaluation de la collaboration en cours avec le          1. ­ 3. : Le WWF MedPO à redémarré les activités,            Comme envisagé dans la convention, le WWF
                                   WWF Medpo en vue de la mise en oeuvre des                qui seront achevées avant la fin du projet :                 il a un autre projet en cours dans le Moyen
                                   activités suivantes dans un cadre partenariale :              a. Etude sur la valorisation éco touristiques des       Atlas (financement FEM-PNUD, HCEFLCD,
                                                                                                    trois sibes du moyen atlas a été élaborée et         ADS) qui va renforcer l'action entreprise dans
                                   1.   Mise en place d'activités génératrices de                                                                        le cadre du PGAP
3.6.1 Appui à la mise en                revenu et formalisation d'accord pilotes pour la            validé ;
réseau et à la gestion                  cogestion des ressources naturelles dans les             b. Un atelier de renforcement de capacité des
concertée des trois SIBE.               zones prioritaires.                                         associations locales est prévu du 26 au 28
                                   2.   Appui à la mise en place de produits et                     mai 2008 ;
                                        services écotouristiques liant les trois SIBE.           c.    Une cartographie des 3 Sibes du moyen
                                   3.   Formulation d'un plan d'action éco régionale                   atlas pour leur mise en réseau est en cours
                                        pour la gestion des AP du Moyen Atlas.                         de finalisation.




                                   1.   Formulation - en collaboration avec la DREF         a.                  Les infrastructures de la réserve ont    L'étude sur les ongulés a fourni des
                                        d'Oujda et ECWP - d'un plan d'action pour la                  été réhabilitées.                                  recommandations spécifiques pour la gestion
                                        conservation de la Gazelle de Cuvier dans           2.        La construction d'un logement de gardien           de gazelle de cuvier dans la région (et sur la
3.6.2 Valorisation de la                l'Oriental marocain.                                          engagé en 2007 a été achevée ;                     réserve de Tirnest)
réserve de Tirnest comme           2.   Formalisation d'une convention de partenariat                                                                    Le HCEFLCD dispose maintenant d'un cadre
station de repeuplement pour                                                                3.        La réhabilitation d'un autre poste a été aussi
                                        avec la DREF d'Oujda et ECWP.                                 achevée                                            stratégique et opérationnel convenable.
la gazelle de Cuvier.
                                   3.   Capture, transfert, lâcher et suivi télémétrique    4.        Des outils d'information engagée en 2007 sont
                                        des gazelles, selon le plan d'action approuvé.                en cours d'élaboration (affiche, brochure et
                                                                                                      dépliant sur les trois sibes).
3.7 Bouachem
                                   1.   Poursuite dans l'identification et la mise en       1.        Aucune activité n'est prévue.                      Le SIBE n'est pas prioritaire. Le PGAP a fourni
                                        oeuvre de microprojets, conformément à la           2.        deux CAC ont été réalisés. Le troisième CAC        un appui/accompagnement à l'initiative de
3.7.1 Renforcement du rôle
                                        charte du parc régional de Bouachem et les                    a été annulé en fin d'exercice 2007 à cause        création du Parc Régional
des E&F dans la gestion
                                        critères d'éligibilité du PPD (voir section 4.2).             des procédures administratives.
patrimoniale et la planification
territoriale autour du SIBE.       2.   Appui à l'identification/ formulation
                                        d'interventions dans le domaine de la
                                        conservation et de l'éco-développement
                                        durable à soumettre à d'autres bayeurs de
                                        fonds.




                                                                                                         39
   Résultats Attendus                         Activités Prévues                                       Etat d'Avancement                                         Commentaires

3.8 Aghbar
                               1.   Initiation du Programme Petits Dons (voir           1. ­ 3. : Aucune activité n'a été entreprise pour ce
                                    section 4.2).                                      site.
                               2.   Développement d'un plan d'action
3.8.1 Mise en place d'une           communautaire (PAC) visant la réhabilitation
initiative pilote pour la           et la sauvegarde de la cupressaie.
réhabilitation et la
sauvegarde de la cupressaie.   3.   Mise en oeuvre du PAC par le développement
                                    d'activités pilotes génératrices de revenu et la
                                    formalisation d'accord pour la réhabilitation et
                                    la sauvegarde de la cupressaie.

Composante 4. Sensibilisation/ communication
4.1 Campagne de sensibilisation
                               1.   Campagne de communication sociale et de            1.   Exception faite des réalisations mises en            Pour la réalisation de l'Atlas des Aires
                                    proximité en périphérie des AP.                         place au niveau des sites, aucune activité           Protégées (impression) et du site WEB (mise
                                                                                            spécifique n'a été entreprise. Pour les 5 SIBE       en ligne), ces deux actions vont être achevées
                                                                                            prioritaires, une stratégie de communication a       avant la fin du projet, mais leur mise en fonction
                                                                                            été élaborée.                                        ne pourra être que vers octobre 2008
                               2.   Campagne de communication sur les média            2.   La vidéo-documentaire a été réalisé et diffusé       La stratégie de communication et un plan
                                    nationaux centré sur le message élaboré par             auprès des partenaires. Il a été aussi présenté      d'action triennal devront être mise en place
                                    le PGAP                                                 lors d'un atelier international sur l'écotourisme    après la clôture du projet.
4.1.1 Une stratégie de              (y compris reportages TV).                              dans les aires protégées tenu à Agadir en fin
communication est mise en                                                                   2007La stratégie de communication a été
oeuvre et les partenaires                                                                   élaborée par l'agence de communication
                               3.   Finalisation et mise en ligne du site web
locaux/ public national sont                                                                chargée de ce dossier
                                    officiel des AP du Maroc.
sensibilisés en matière de
                                                                                       3.   La rédaction a démarré en novembre 2007. La
conservation et gestion des
                                                                                            finalisation est prévue pour fin mai 2008. La
AP.
                                                                                            mise en ligne du site est prévue pour octobre
                               4.   Publications de deux ouvrages : (i) volume              2008
                                    photographique sur les AP du Maroc, (ii)
                                    carto-guide à l'usage des visiteurs des AP du      4.   (i) La maquette de l'atlas sur les AP du Maroc
                                    Haut Atlas.                                             est finalisée les photos réalisées. La rédaction
                                                                                            des textes a été achevée. (ii) la réalisation de
                                                                                            la carto-guide a été annulée
                               5.   Manifestations culturelles/ ateliers centrés sur   5.   Aucune action n'a pas été entreprise.
                                    la mise en place/ valorisation des AP du
                                    Maroc.




                                                                                               40
   Résultats Attendus                         Activités Prévues                                     Etat d'Avancement                                         Commentaires

4.2 Programme Petits Dons
                               1.   Poursuite des microprojets en cours               1.   Les micro-projets sont achèves. Les ONG             Un système de suivi évaluation efficace devra
                                    d'exécution, financés sous le PPD confié aux           APEX doivent soumettre le rapport final.            être mis en place
                                    ONG apex.                                         2.   Les nouvelles conventions avec les ONG
4.2.1 Recentrage et            2.   Mobilisation et organisation communautaire             Apex sont opérationnelles.
extension du Programme              pour l'identification et élaboration d'un         3.   Suite à un atelier de planification il a été
Petits Dons.                        complément de microprojets finançables                 décidé d'intervenir uniquement dans les sites
                                    selon les nouveaux critères du PPD.                    suivants : PN d'Al Hoceima, PN du Haut Atlas
                               3.   Exécution et suivi évaluation des microprojets         Oriental, PN de Khnifiss, SIBE de Tamga
                                    financés.                                         4.   Un total de 81 microprojets a été identifié dans
                                                                                           ces sites, entamés et en cours d'achèvement.
                                                                                           La plus part ont été déjà achevés.
                               1.   Mise en oeuvre d'un forum de concertation/      Les PACs seront intégrés dans les PAG des cinq             Les actions communautaires restent des
                                    négociation réunissant les parties prenantes et SIBE prioritaires et dans les Plans d'Action               thématiques prioritaires dans le cadre de la
                                    les bénéficiaires au niveau des sites.          Triennaux des trois Parcs Nationaux                        gestion des AP du Maroc.
                               2.   Elaboration concertée et validation des Plan                                                               Il est souhaitable de poursuive les efforts
4.2.2 Appui à l'élaboration et
                                    d'Action Communautaire (PAC).
mise en oeuvre des plans
d'action communautaires        3.   Appui à la mise en oeuvre du PACs et des
(PAC) ciblant les principaux        activités génératrices de revenu identifiées.
groupes d'utilisateurs des AP. 4.   Appui à la formalisation d'accords pilotes pour
                                    la cogestion des ressources naturelles dans
                                    les zones prioritaires des AP.
                               5.   Suivi évaluation des impacts.




                                                                                              41
                                                                                         INDICATORS


                                                                                                    A la Revue Mi-
  Objectif Global               Indicateurs de Suivi                     A la Formulation                                  A la Fin du Projet                Situation Réelle Enfin du Projet
                                                                                                       Parcours
                            Nbre d'aires
                                                                                                 3 Parcs nationaux et
     Contribuer au     protégées soumises à                                                                                  Les trois Parcs
                                                                                                  pour les cinq SIBE-
    développement            une gestion                                   1 Parc national                                  Nationaux et les 10
                                                                                                Réserves prioritaires le
 durable du Maroc en       patrimoniale et                                                                                   SIBE du PGAP
                                                                                                processus est en cours
      assurant la              durable
 conservation de ses        · Superficies
ressources naturelles                                                            1,7%           11,6% (290.000 Ha sur 19,5% (488.000 Ha ,
                            protégées (%
 et de sa biodiversité                                                   (42.000 Ha sur 2,5      2,5 millions, soit les les Trois Parcs et les
                          superficie aires
                                                                         millions d'hectares)    trois PN et Khnifiss)        10 SIBE)
                             protégées)




    Objectif de                                                                                     A la Revue Mi-
                                Indicateurs de Suivi                     A la Formulation                                  A la Fin du Projet                Situation Réelle Enfin du Projet
  Développement                                                                                        Parcours
                                                                                                   460 Ha soumis à la
                         Régénération et    N° Hectares soumis à                                      protection et     Gestion conservatoire 475 Ha de formation végétale naturelle protégée,
                       protection du milieu la régénération et la               Aucun            régénération assisté +    et durable des     régénérée et soumises à une gestion conservatoire
                             végétal              protection                                       15 Km de tranchés     espaces régénérés et durable
                                                                                                    pare feux réalisés
                                                    N* Hectares
                                                                                                                      Gestion correcte et
                                                aménagés pour la                                  Enclos de 1400 Ha                       1650 Ha de réserves d'ongulés aménagés et gérées
                                                                           800 Ha d'enclos                           convenable des 1.500
                                                 reconstitution des                              réamenagés et 80 Ha                      pour une meilleure reproduction et valorisation des
                                                                               réalisés                                 Ha de réserve
                                                espèces animales                                       réalisés.                          espèces animales.
       N° 1            Reconstitution des                                                                                 d'ongulés
                                                aménagés et gerés
                      populations animales
                                                Définition et mise en                             Action budgétisée,
     Améliorer la                                                                                                      Étude achevé et lignes Etude achevée, startégie et Plan d'action pour la
                                                place d'une stratégie                            TdR étude et contrats
  conservation des                                                          Non présente                               directrices validées et gestion des populations d'ongulées sauvage du
                                                nationale de gestion                                   en cours
   écosystèmes et                                                                                                       mises en application Maroc élaborée et validées. Mise en oeuvre entamée.
                                               des espèces animales                                 d'engagement
  espèces d'intérêt
       global                                                                                                                                         Les résultats de diagnostics des 5 SIBEs prioritaires
                        Capitalisation des                                                                                                            ont été synthétisés et incorporés dans des
                             acquis et                                                                                                                documenst (PAG) et validé par le département.Pour
                                                N° Aires protégées                                                              Les résultats des
                        incorporation des                                                                                                             les trois parcs nationaux, des plans d'actions
                                                 objet d'études de      3 Parcs Nationaux ont Les cinq SIBE-réserve études de diagnostic
                          résultats de la                                                                                                             triennaux ont été élaborés suivant la nouvelle
                                                diagnostic / mise à     fait l'objet d'études en ont fait l' objet d'études sont incorporés dans
                      recherche scientifique                                                                                                          stratégie du département et leurs mise en oeuvre est
                                                   jour données            1992-94 (PDAP)             de diagnostic.        les PG des cinq SIBE-
                        dans les plans de                                                                                                             entamée. Le financement de tous ces plans (PAG et
                                                     existants                                                                réserves prioritaires
                            gestion des                                                                                                               Plans d'actions triennaux) est assuré par les budgets
                           écosystèmes                                                                                                                du département à partir de 2008 et 2009 suivant le
                                                                                                                                                      cas.




                                                                                                   42
   Objectif de                                                                                 A la Revue Mi-
                                Indicateurs de Suivi                 A la Formulation                                   A la Fin du Projet               Situation Réelle Enfin du Projet
 Développement                                                                                    Parcours
                                                                       Les trois Parcs
                                                                    Nationaux sont dotés                                                    Les Plans d'Aménagement et de Gestion des cinq
                                                                                                                  Les PG des cinq SIBE-
                                             N° de aires protégées d'un projet de plan de L'élaboration des plans                           SIBEs prioritaires ont été élaborés et valisdés, et leur
                                                                                                                    réserves prioritaires
                                              dotées d'un plan de    gestion. Les SIBE-       de gestion de cinq                            mise en oeuvre est entamés à partir de 2008 dans le
                                                                                                                  sont finalisés et validés
                                              gestion actualisé et réserves ne disposent SIBE prioritaires est en                           cadre du budget du département. Pour leqs parcs
                                                                                                                       par les parties
                                                     validé            d'aucun outil de               cours                                 nationaux, des plans d'action triennaux ont été
                                                                                                                         prenantes.
                                                                       diagnostic et de                                                     élaborés.
                                                                         planification.
                                                                                                                                            A l'exception du Parc National d'Al Hoceima où la
                                                                                            Les infrastructure et
                                                                                                                                            structure de gestion n'a pas pu être mise en place en
                                                                                               l'équipement de     Les infrastructures de
                                                                    Seul le Parc National                                                   totalité et du SIBE de Jbel Moussa, les autres sites
                                                                                           gestion sont en place base sont mises en
                                             N° d'aires protégées de Toubkal dispose de                                                     ont été doté de structures nécessaires à leur
                                                                                               ou en phase de           place et sont
                                             dotées de structures quelque structures de                                                     gestion.Par contre, tous les sites ont été doté de
                                                                                             réalisation dans les   fonctionnelles dans
                                                  de gestion            gestion et du                                                       moyens d'équipement divers nécessaires à leur
                                                                                           trois Parcs Nationaux toutes les 13 AP du
                                                                      personnel affecté                                                     gestion. Le projet a soutenu amplement le
                                                                                                et les 10 SIBE-            PGAP
                                                                                                                                            fonctionnement des structures de gestion pendant
                                                                                                    réserves.
                                                                                                                                            toute la durée du PGAP.
       N° 2            Mise en oeuvre des                                               Les aires protégées
                                                                                                                                      Les parcs nationaux d'Al Hoceima, du Haut Atlas
                      plans de gestion des                                                   disposent du
     Contribuer à                                                                                                                     Oriental, de Toubkal et de Khnifiss (Ex-SIBE) sont
                           3 parcs et                                                  personnel affecté à la
l'établissement d'un                                                                                                                  doté de leur directeurs, ainsi que du personnel
                      aménagement des 10                                                  gestion, mais les
   système durable                                                                                                                    d'appui (ingénieurs, techniciens et gardiens) mais le
                            réserves                                                    niveaux ne sont pas    Les aires protégées
d'aires protégées au                                             Le Parc National de                                                  niveau reste encore insuffisant par rapport aux
                                                                                        suffisants à assurer   prioritaires (3 Parcs
  Maroc, selon des                                              Toubkal dispose d'un                                                  prévisions vu le manque de personnel suffisant au
                                           N° d'aires protégées                               une gestion      nationaux et 5 SIBE)
      approches                                                  Directeur et 4 autres                                                niveau de l'ensemble du département. Pour les 4
                                               disposant du                             patrimoniale efficace      disposent du
 participatives et en                                           personnes affectés au                                                 autres SIBEs prioritaires, ils sont gérés par le
                                           personnel de gestion                             (1 Directeur, 4      personnel affecté
      offrant des                                                  Parc. Le PN d'Al                                                   personnel forestier ordinaire ayant bénéficié de
                                            et de surveillance                              Ingénieurs, 15      conformément aux
     opportunités                                               Hoceima dispose d'un                                                  session de formation continue afin de renforcer ses
                                                                                          techniciens et 20   besoins identifiés dans
  économiques aux                                                     Directeur.                                                      capacités de gestion de l'aire protégée. Les
                                                                                       gardiens à temps plein les plans de gestion
 populations vivant                                                                                                                   nouveaux profils formés actuellement par le projet
                                                                                          et 4 ingénieurs,5
 dans et autour des                                                                                                                   permettront de combler ce vide dans le futur proche.
                                                                                           techniciens et 4
   aires protégées                                                                                                                    Les premières promotion de l'ENFI ont été déjà
                                                                                         gardiens à temps
                                                                                                                                      affectés dans les sites.
                                                                                                partiel)
                                                                                                 Les cinq SIBE-                                  Les 3 parcs nationaux en plus de Khnifis sont doté
                                             N° d'aires protégées                             réserves prioritaires     Les 13 AP du PGAP        d'objectifs de conservation et de développement à
                                             dotées d'objectifs de                            disposent d'objectifs     disposent d'objectifs    moyen et long terme avec une vision claire pour
                                                                        Les trois Parcs
                                            développement et de                              identifiés. Le Sibe de     de développement et      assurer la perrénité de leurs ressources. Pour les 4
                                                                          Nationaux
                                            conservation à moyen                                Bouachem (non-             de conservation       autres SIBEs, leurs objectifs ont été élaboré et validé
                                                     terme                                     prioritaire) dispose      identifiés et validés   dans le cadre des plans d'aménagement et de
                                                                                             aussi d'objectifs fixés.                            gestion réalisés par le PGAP.
                                                                                                                                            Pendant toute la durée du PGAP, 130 microprojets
                        Mise en place de
                                                                                                                                            de PPD dont l'objectif principal est la sensibilisation à
                      cadre partenariale de     N° d'actions de   Seul le Parc National
                                                                                                                                            la conservation des ressources naturelles ont été
                           gestion des         sensibilisation et de Toubkal a réalisé       44 petits dons et 10
                                                                                                                        Au moins 150 petits réalisés et ont concernés les 3 parcs nationaux et les
                      ressources naturelles éducation exécutés       des actions de          ateliers d'information
                                                                                                                        dons sont exécutés 5 SIBEs prioritaires dont le parc national de Khnifiss.
                       avec les populations (Programme de Petits   sensibilisation au          ont été exécutés.
                                                                                                                                            Une multitude d'ateliers d'information, de formation,
                      usagers et les autres         Dons)           niveau du Parc
                                                                                                                                            d'encadrement et de sensibilisation ont été organisés
                          intervenants
                                                                                                                                            et exécutés en marge du Programme de Petits Dons


                                                                                              43
  Objectif de                                                                         A la Revue Mi-
                         Indicateurs de Suivi                 A la Formulation                              A la Fin du Projet             Situation Réelle Enfin du Projet
Développement                                                                            Parcours
                                                                                                                                    Des Plans d'Actions Communautaires ont été
                                                                                                                                    élaborés pour les trois parcs Nationaux, ainsi que
                                       N° de conventions                                                   Les trois Parcs et les 5
                                                                                     Le Parc National du                            pour les SIBEs de Tamga et Khnifiss. Toutefois, ces
                                        signées avec les                                                        SIBE réserves
                                                              Seul 2 conventions     Toubkal a signé 12                             Plans d'Action n'ont pas été validés à cause des
                                     populations locales et                                                  disposent de plans
                                                              mises en oeuvre au    conventions avec les                            lacunes juridiques actuelles. Ces lacunes seront
                                     les autres acteurs des                                                       d'actions
                                                                niveau du Parc      populations locales et                          bientôt camblés avec le nouveaux projets de loi sur
                                         aires protégées                                                      communautaires
                                                              national de Toubkal     les autres acteurs                            les aires protégées qui permettra de valider les plans
                                         (Plans d'Action                                                    validés et signés par
                                                                                           locaux.                                  d'aménagements et de gestion par decret
                                        Communautaire)                                                      les parties prenantes
                                                                                                                                    ministériels. Ce qui le rendrontopposables à tous les
                                                                                                                                    acteurs et intervenants.
                                                                                                                                Les 20 PDD prévus au départ ont été élaborés. Cette
                                     N° d'actions de Plans 6 PDD au niveau du                                                   démarche a été substituée à la mise en place des
                                     de Développement de PN Toubkal et 2 au                                  20 PDD élaborés et Plans d'Actions Communautaires précités. Ces Plans
                                                                                     19 PDD élaborés.
                                     douar élaborés et mis niveau d'Al Hoceima                                  mis en place    d'action Communautaires englobenst les actions à
                  · Mise en oeuvre         en place          étaient formulés                                                   réaliser en relation avec les objectifs de gestion de
                    d'actions de                                                                                                l'aire protégée concernée.
                développement socio                                                                                                5 Plans d'action Communautaires ont été élaboré au
                  économiques, en                                                                           8 Plans d'action       niveau des trois parcs nationaux et deux autres
                concertation avec les                       Seul le parc National   La procédure pour
                                                                                                         Communautaire et 24       SIBEs. Une dizaine de contrat d'actions
                      usagers         N° de Plans d'actions de Toubkal a réalisé l'élaboration des Plans
                                                                                                           Contrats d'Action       communautaires ont été signés et éxécutés par les
                                      communautaires mis       des actions de            D'Action
                                                                                                            Communautaire          concernés dans le cadre du PGAP. Les autres
                                            en place          développement       Communautaire est en
                                                                                                          formulés, validés et     contrats préparés n'ont pas pu être signés et
                                                             socioéconomiques      cours de finalisation
                                                                                                               exécutés            éxécutés vu l'approche de la date de cloture du
                                                                                                                                   projet.




                                                                                     44
   Objectif de                                                                                     A la Revue Mi-
                                 Indicateurs de Suivi                     A la Formulation                                A la Fin du Projet             Situation Réelle Enfin du Projet
 Développement                                                                                        Parcours
                                                                                                   115 personnes ont Mise en place de deux
                                                                                                     bénéficié d'une     modules de formation Elaboration, mise en place et éxécution de deux
                                                    Programme de
                                                                           Aucun programme       formation spécifique          au niveau du      modules de formation continue au profit des
                                                formation continue: n°
                                                                             spécifique n'est  sur les AP et la gestion       programme de       gestionnaires d'aires protégées pour une durée de
                                                 de personnel formé,
                                                                         dispensé au personnel du projet (38 journées formation continue du deux semaines au total. 55 personnes ont bénéficié
                                                    n° d'heures de
                                                                              du HCEFLCD            de formation). 17   HCEFLCD (15 journés de ces modules de formation dont 25 dans la
                                                 formation dispensés
                           · Formation du                                                      personnes ont effectué de formation chacun, première session et 20 dans la seconde session.
                        personnel des parcs                                                    des voyages d'études.             par an).
                        et du HCEFLCD à la                                                              Option de                                Option de spécialisation en Gestion des Aires
                          gestion des aires         Programme de                                                              Poursuite de la
                                                                                                    spécialisation du                            Protégées mise en place au niveau de l'ENFI à partir
                              protégées            formation initiale:         Aucun cours                              spécialisation à l'ENFI
                                                                                                   troisième cycle au                            de l'année académique 2005-2006 et deux modules
                                                       option de             spécifique sur la                           (18 étudiants sur trois
                                                                                                niveau de l'ENFI mise                            spécifiques sur la gestion des aires protégées ont été
                                                spécialisation sur les      gestion des aires                            ans) et deux modules
                                                                                                  en place à partir de                           intégrés dans le cursus de formation de l'ITREF à
                                                aires protégées pour       protégées dispensé                           sur la gestion des aires
                                                                                                 l'année académique                              partir de l'année académique 2007-2008. Les
                                                      les écoles           par les deux écoles                              protégées mis en
                                                                                                2005-06 (840 heures                              premiers sortants de l'ENFI au titre des années 2007
                                                d'ingénieurs (ENFI et           forestières                                place au niveau de
                                                                                                   d'enseignement, 6                             et 2008 ont été affectés dans des aires protégées du
                                                        TREF)                                                             l'ITREF (60 heures)
                                                                                                        étudiants)                               système national.
                                                                                                                                            La base de données géoréférencée (SIG des aires
       N° 3                                                                                                                                 protégées) sur les aires protégées du Maroc est mise
                                                                                                                                            en place au niveau de l'unité centrale SIG.
Renforcer la capacité                                                                                                                       L'intégration des autres données et des typologies
                                                                                                                    Une base de données
 institutionnelle en                            Une base de données                         Une base de données                             est en cours par le responsable de l'unité. Le
                                                                        Pas de bases de                             sur les aires protégées
 matière de gestion                                  sur les aires                          sur les aires protégées                         personnel des unités SIG du département a été
                                                                      données sur les aires                           marocaines et leur
   durable et de                                protégées est mise en                           est en cours de                             formé dans les domaines de télédtection, SIG, GPS
                                                                          protégées.                                    biodiversité est
   conservation                                         place                                     réalisation.                              pour la collecte de données sur le terrain et Bases de
                                                                                                                         opérationnelle
                                                                                                                                            Données (soit 8 personnes cadres). D'autres unités
                                                                                                                                            SIG décentralisées des aires protégées sont en cours
                                                                                                                                            (cas du parc national de Toubkal et des sites de
                         Établissement d'un                                                                                                 l'oriental).
                        système d'information
                           et de suivi de la                                                  Quatre cellules SIG
                          gestion des aires                                                  ont été équipées et du
                                                                                                                             Les trois Parcs
                              protégées                                                      personnel affecté (trois
                                                                                                                          Nationaux disposent
                                                                                              PN et la Division des
                                                                                                                             des cellules de      La Cellule centrale dispose d'un SIG complet. Les
                                                                      Les aires protégées ne Parcs et Réserves
                                                N° de aires protégées                                                          cartographie       trois parcs nationaux disposent de leurs unités SIG
                                                                         disposent pas de     Naturelles). Les cinq
                                                dotées d'un système                                                       opérationnelles et la   cartographique, et le personnel a été formé pour leur
                                                                      systèmes d'information     SIBE-réserves
                                                    d'information                                                         DRPN dispose d'une      opérationnalisation.Les SIBEs prioritaires pourront
                                                                        géographique ni de    prioritaires disposent
                                                 géographique ou de                                                       cellule SIG. Les cinq   désormais disposer de leurs cartographie thématique
                                                                           cartographie        de la cartographie
                                                    cartographies                                                            SIBE-rèserves        après l'intégration de toutes les données et couches
                                                                            thématique           digitalisée et un
                                                                                                                            disposent d'une       d'informations actualisées
                                                                                             premier embauche de
                                                                                                                               cartographie
                                                                                                base de données
                                                                                                                                thématique
                                                                                                  relationnel est
                                                                                                    développé.




                                                                                                   45
  Objectif de                                                                              A la Revue Mi-
                         Indicateurs de Suivi                     A la Formulation                                A la Fin du Projet            Situation Réelle Enfin du Projet
Développement                                                                                 Parcours
                                                                                                                                        Le projet a pu élaborer un système de suivi
                                                                                                                                        évaluation basé sur un système d'audit à trois niveau
                                                                                   Un projet de système
                                                                                                                                        et testé pour les trois parcs nationaux et les 5 SIBEs
                                                                                  de suivi-évaluation des
                                                                                                                                        prioritaires en 2004 et 2005 par les équipes et le
                                                                                   aires protégées a été
                                        Un système de suivi-                                                                            consultant de l'assistance technique. Un système de
                                                                                   élaboré. Un système Le HCEFLCD dispose
                                         évaluation des aires                                                                           gestion administrative et financière a été aussi
                                                              Aucun système n'est        de gestion            d'un système
                                        protégées est élaboré                                                                           élaboré et mis en place qui a intégré aussi les
                                                                    utilisé            administrative     informatisé de gestion
                                           et adopté par le                                                                             indicateurs de suivi évaluation vers la fin du projet.
                                                                                       intégrant des       et de suivi-évaluation
                                                HCEF                                                                                    Ce système a été exporté vers les autres services du
                                                                                   indicateurs de suivi-
                                                                                                                                        HCEFLCD pour la gestion des contrats programmes
                                                                                  évaluation est en cours
                                                                                                                                        signés avec les sous ordonnateurs du département. Il
                                                                                       de réalisation
                                                                                                                                        s'agit d'un système qui servira aussi de modèle pour
                                                                                                                                        les projets financés dans le futur.
                                                                                                Plane de
                                           Une stratégie de                                 communication                             Un plan de communication a été élaboré et validé par
                                                                                                                    Une stratégie de
                                          communication en                                  développé. Des                            le département. Une stratégie de communication
                                                                                                                  communication est
                                          matière des aires                                sondages ont été                           autour de la thématique des aires protégées a été
                                                                                                                  élaborèe et mise en
                                        protégées est identifié                                exécutés et                            élaborée et mise en place. Sa mise en oeuvre est
                                                                                                                        oeuvre.
                                           et mise en place                               l'élaboration d'une                         entamée.
                                                                                        stratégie est en cours.
                                                                                                                  Finalisation du Logo
                                                                                                                                        Une identité visuelle (Logo fédérateur) des aires
                                                                                                                  fédérateur AP, et du
                                                                                                                                        protégées est élaborée et validée par le département.
                                                                                                                    Logo des 8 Parcs
                                                                                                                                        Cette identité a été déclinée pour 8 parcs nationaux
                 · Sensibilisation du                                                       Logo des aires       nationaux, production
                                                                   Aucune action de                                                     qui disposent actuellement de leur logo spécifique.
                public à l'importance                                                   protégées élaboré et           d'un vidéo
                                                                  communication était lancé, Conférence de                              Une vidéodocumentaire est réalisé et diffusé. Un site
                   des activités de                                                                                  documentaire,
                                                                      exécutée ni                                                       Web sur les aires protégées a été réalisé, et un
                 conservation de la                                                      presse exécuté, 39      publication d'un Atlas
                                                                     programmée                                                         ouvrage dit Atlas des aires protégées a été élaboré et
                     biodiversité                                                      articles publiés sur les sur les AP du Maroc,
                                           Nombre et type                                                                               finalisé. Son édition et sa publication est prévue pour
                                                                                      journaux nationaux. Un site internet sur les AP,
                                            d'actions de                                                                                début 2009. un bulletin sur les aires protégée a été
                                                                                       vidéo-documentaire a         réalisation de 20
                                           communication                                                                                produit et élargie aux secteusr de la chasse et de la
                                                                                       était produit, un atlas articles de presse, 6
                                              exécutés                                                                                  pêche continentale. Plus d'une vingtaine d'articles de
                                                                                      sur les aires protégées émissions télé/radio, 2
                                                                                                                                        presse diffusées, une photothèque comprenant plus
                                                                                           est en cours de      conférences de presse
                                                                                                                                        de 500 photos de très haute résolution sur le milieu
                                                                                         réalisation, un site         et 2 tours de
                                                                                                                                        naturelle et les aires protégées est disponibles, et
                                                                                        Internet est en cours      familiarisation pour
                                                                                                                                        une multitude de documenst d'information type
                                                                                             de réalisation          journalistes, 3
                                                                                                                                        dépliants, brochures, posters et guides d'information
                                                                                                                  numéros de la lettre
                                                                                                                                        ont été élaborés et diffusés sur la quasitotalité des
                                                                                                                      sur les Aires
                                                                                                                                        sites du projet (parcs nationaux et Sibes).
                                                                                                                       Protégées,




                                                                                          46
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The government of Morocco was granted a formal 2-month extension of the standard 4-
month grace period by the World Bank for completing all outstanding disbursements
under the PGAP project. Consequently, the PCU's final accounts will not be completed
until December 31st and therefore this ICR can only show the figures available at closure
and as available up to November 2008:


Status of Expenses by Component at Project Closure (end of June 2008)

           Catégorie de paiement                  GEF          GOM            TOTAL

 1- Travaux                                  12 673 000      5 427 540      18 100 540

 2- Fournitures                              11 799 000      2 954 120      14 753 120

 3- Services de Consultants et Formation     38 456 000      4 273 860      42 729 860

 4- Aménagements communautaires              20 102 000      2 237 440      22 339 440

 5- Programme de petits dons                    8 740 000        0           8 740 000

 6- Budget Fonctionnement                                   12 629 300      12 629 300
 (1 US$ = 8,74 MAD)                          91 770 000     27 522 260      119 292 260




Status of Outstanding Commitments at Project Closure (end of June 2008)




                                           47
Status of Expenses at Project Closure (end of June 2008)




Status of Unspent Balances at Project Closure (end of June 2008)




                                    48
Status of Disbursements at September 2008


                        Désignation                                     Montant en DHS
                                                                        ($US 1.0 = 8.74 MAD)
 Montant total du projet                                                  91.770.000,00
 Montant Décaissée                                                        76.733.706,80
 Montant en cours de Décaissement (DR 34 et 35)                            2.768.741,08
 Total Décaissée                                                          79.502.447,88
 Montant restant à Décaisser d'ici la fin du projet                             -



Status of Expenses by Component at November 2008

                                Prévision                         Réalisation
  Composante
                          US$               MAD             US$              MAD            %
Composante 1             3,106,000.00    26,773,720.00   4,236,866.77      36,521,791.56   136.41
Composante 2             4,519,000.00    38,953,780.00   3,433,212.54      29,594,292.09    75.97
Composante 3             4,706,000.00    40,565,720.00   3,430,532.59      29,571,190.95    72.90
Composante 4             1,318,000.00    11,361,160.00   1,279,860.93      11,032,401.20    97.11
               Total    13,649,000.00 117,654,380.00 12,380,472.83        106,720,058.19    90.70




Additional Personnel Expenses at November 2008


                Désignation                       Montant en US$             Montant en MAD

Frais du personnel de Eaux et Forêts                       951,000.00               8,197,620.00
Participation communautaire                              1,100,000.00               9,482,000.00
 (US$ 1.0 = 8.62 MAD)                   Total            2,051,000.00              17,679,620.00




Rates of Return

No attempt has been made to calculate economic or financial rates of return for the PGAP
Project due to the inherent difficulty in quantifying the investments for "public good"
environmental operations.




                                                49
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                   Responsibility/
          Names                        Title               Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Marjorie Bromhead          Pr. Natural Resources Economist ECSSD        TTL
Laurent Msellati               Senior Operations Officer   MNSRE        TTL
Nicole Glineur               Sr. Environmental Specialist  MNSRE Natural Resources
Arbi Ben-Achour                        Sociologist         MNSED       Social
Christophe Crepin              Environmental Economist      AFTE1  Environment
Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough   Nat. Res. Management Specialist MNSRE Natural Resources
Douglas Lister              Co-Cluster Leader for Morocco MNSRE    Coordination
E. Mahe                                Consultant          MNSRE   Biodiversity
Samia Msadek                       Financial Specialist    MNSRE        FM
Sobha Shetty                           Economist           MNSRE   Project Dev.
F. Cuzin                               Consultant          MNSRE     Wildlife
Omar Aloui                             Consultant          MNCMA    Economist
M. Gress                       Sr. Procurement Specialist  MNAVP   Procurement
T. Nguyen                        Disbursement Officer      LOAEL  Disbursement
Ferid Belhaj                        Country Lawyer         LEGMN   Agreements
Sylvie Pittman                       Team Assistant        MNSRE      Support
Laila Moudden                        Team Assistant        MNCMA      Support

Supervision/ICR
Nicole Glineur               Sr. Environmental Specialist MNSRE         TTL
Abdelkrim Oka              Sr. Nat. Res. Management Spec. MNSSD         TTL
Elsie Garfield                Regional GEF Coordinator    MNSRE         TTL
Steve Maber                    Senior Operations Officer  MNSSD         TTL
Douglas Lister             Co-Cluster Leader for Morocco MNSRE      Coordination
Mohamed Medouar            Senior Rural Development Spec. MNSSD     Supervision
Jumana Farah                          Consultant           IEGSE    Supervision
Anas Abou El Mikias        Sr. Financial Management Spec. MNAFM         FM
Arbi Ben-Achour                       Sociologist         MNSED        Social
Abdoulaye Keita                 Procurement Specialist    MNAPR     Procurement
Alaleh Motamedi             Senior Procurement Specialist MNAPR     Procurement
Sylvie Pittman               Language Program Assistant   MNSRE       Support
Syvie Creger                 Language Program Assistant   MNSSD       Support
Laila Moudden                     Program Assistant       MNCMA       Support




                                        50
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                     32.04
  FY98                                                                    134.35
  FY99                                                                     90.01
  FY00                                           14                        78.09
  FY01                                                                     20.84
  FY02                                                                      4.98
  FY03                                                                     10.63
  FY04                                                                      3.81
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                               Total:            14                       374.75
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                      0.00
  FY98                                                                      0.00
  FY99                                                                      0.00
  FY00                                           1                         24.55
  FY01                                                                     44.99
  FY02                                                                     39.17
  FY03                                           4                         59.46
  FY04                                                                     53.48
  FY05                                                                     71.68
  FY06                                                                     72.68
  FY07                                                                     73.03
  FY08                                                                     84.75
                               Total:            5                        523.79




                                            51
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A Beneficiary Survey is not strictly required for this Core ICR, nevertheless,
Agriconsulting carried out a detailed review of the Community Action Plans conducted in
each of the protected areas with some interesting results. Below is an extract from their
detailed report (October 2008) with a summary of their evaluation findings:


4. Evaluation des actions réalisées

4.1. Rappel des cadres de réalisation des actions

       Les actions - PAC ont été réalisées dans deux cadres différents :

       Des actions réalisées dans le cadre du PPDavec les ONG Apex (ADRAR et
       SPANA) conformément au cahier de charges et à la convention officialisés et
       conclus entre ces ONG et le HCEFLCD. Ces associations oeuvrent dans le
       domaine de la préservation de la nature et du développement rural dans les aires
       protégées.

       Les principales catégories de ces actions sont :

              Les actions génératrices de revenu de différentes natures : arboriculture
              fruitière, élevage caprin, apiculture, écotourisme, artisanat
              Les actions sociales relatives à la mise à niveau des infrastructures de base
              Les actions d'information, de formation et de sensibilisation
              Les actions directes intéressant la population et permettant de réduire la
              pression sur les ressources naturelles

       Les parcs et SIBEs concernés par ces actions sont les suivants:

              Parc National de Toubkal
              Parc National d'Al Hoceima
              Parc National du Haut Atlas Oriental
              Parc National de Khenifiss
              SIBE de Tamga
              SIBE de Chekhar
              SIBE de Krouz
              SIBE de Jbel Moussa




                                            52
      Des actions réalisées directement par l'administration (les sous ordonnateurs
      avec les crédits qui ont été délégués pendant la période du projet (2002-2008) en
      dehors du programme de Petits Dons mis en oeuvre avec les deux ONGs Apex
      (SPANA et ADRAR). Les principales catégories de ces actions sont :

             Création de points d'eau
             Plantations fruitières
             Achat et Fourniture de matériaux de construction
             Achat et Fourniture d'aliments de bétail
             Achat et fourniture des produits phytosanitaires
             Achat et Fourniture de petits outillages

      Les sites concernés par ces interventions sont essentiellement les PN d'Al-
      Hoceima, de Toubkal et les SIBES d'Aghbar et de Jbel Moussa.
4.2. Evaluation des réalisations

4.2.1. Actions PPD réalisées par les ONGs Apex

4.2.1.1. Adéquation avec les objectifs du PGAP

      Avant de se livrer à l'appréciation de leurs niveaux de réalisation ou de leurs
      impacts, on peut dire que globalement toutes les actions entreprises versent
      logiquement, de près ou de loin, dans les objectifs du PAC, et de là elles sont en
      adéquation avec les objectifs du PGAP.

      Dans leur ensemble, ces actions concilient entre l'amélioration des conditions de
      vie des populations locales tout en les informant et en les sensibilisant sur
      l'importance de protection du couvert végétal. Autrement dit, dans leur essence
      initiale, ces actions sont en conformité avec le principe de durabilité de gestion
      des ressources naturelles qui consiste à associer les objectifs de développement
      aux objectifs de conservation.

4.2.1.2. Evaluation des réalisations

      Actions PPD




                                          53
Catégorisation et appréciation globale

Toutes les actions mises en oeuvre dans le cadre des conventions avec les ONGs
Apex sont inventoriées et regroupées, comme le montrent les matrices 1 et 2
rapportées en annexe 2, en cinq grandes catégories :

Catégorie 1. Les actions génératrices de revenu avec trois sous ­ catégories :
(i) l'agriculture (essentiellement l'arboriculture), (ii) l'élevage (ovin, caprin, et
apiculture) et (iii) l'éco-tourisme

Catégorie 2. Les actions d'Information, d'Education, de Communication et de
Sensibilisation

Catégorie 3. Les actions directes réductrices de la pression sur les ressources
naturelles

Catégorie 4. Les actions sociales et de mise à niveau des infrastructures de
base

Catégorie 5. Les actions de renforcement des associations et promotion
féminine

La lecture horizontale de ces matrices permet de visualiser dans quelle catégorie
ou sous ­ catégorie verse l'action et leur lecture verticale permet d'évaluer le
degré de prépondérance de chaque catégorie.

Comme, il a été souligné auparavant, la plupart de ces actions, prises
individuellement, démarrent d'une situation initiale de niveau « bas ». En ce qui
concerne l'importance relative des différentes catégories des actions, leur
appréciation peut être approchée sous trois angles différents :

       (i)        Importance de l'action appréciée par les groupes cibles (en tant que
                  bénéfices et/ou besoins)
       (ii)       Importance de l'action en termes de taux de couverture, d'étendue
                  des actions, etc.
       (iii)      Degré de lien de l'action avec la protection de la biodiversité

Sur la base d'une appréciation globale, le tableau 2 relate un classement relatif
(de 1 à 5) pour les deux premiers angles de perception.



                                       54
 Catégories                         Classement / Importance de    Classement / Importance de
                                    l'action appréciée par les    l'action en termes de taux de
                                    groupes cibles (en tant que   couverture, d'étendue des
                                    bénéfices et/ou besoins)      actions, etc.
 Les activités génératrices de
 revenu (Arboriculture,                            2                              2
 apiculture, élevage et
 écotourisme)
 Les actions d'Information,
 d'Education, de                                   4                              1
 Communication et de
 sensibilisation
 Les actions sociales et mise à
 niveau des infrastructures de                     1                              5
 base (dont l'eau potable)
 Les actions de renforcement
 des associations et de                            3                              3
 promotion féminine
 Les actions directes de
 réduction de la pression sur les                  5                              4
 ressources naturelles


Nous pouvons déduire que les actions génératrices de revenu et les actions
sociales (dont la distribution des fours à gaz) et de mise à niveau des
infrastructures de base sont les mieux appréciées par les groupes cibles. En terme
de taux de couverture, on peut globalement déduire que les actions génératrices de
revenu et les actions d'information d'éducation et de communication (IEC) sont
les plus importantes. Pour le cas des actions qui ont un lien plus ou moins direct
avec la protection des ressources naturelles, on peut dire que les actions IEC sont
les plus importantes en termes de couverture et tout particulièrement dans les PN
de Toubkal, du HAO (Imilchil), Tamga, Khénifiss et Al Hoceima. D'autres
actions ponctuelles ont été également entreprises comme la mise en place des
lavoirs collectifs pour l'atténuation de la pollution des eaux à l'amont hydraulique
notamment de l'Oued Tounfite. Toutefois ces actions demeurent de faible
durabilité et peu significatives en termes d'impact. Les visites sur le terrain et les
discussions avec les populations bénéficiaires montrent un désintéressement par
rapport à ce type de projet.




                                            55
En ce qui concerne les actions relatives à l'initiation des ONG à la conception de
projets et à la gestion des AP, elles sont assez bien abordées mais demeurent
relativement limitées. A ce niveau, il est important de rappeler la nécessité de
renforcer davantage la capacité des associations locales pour les aider à jouer
pleinement leur rôle mobilisateur et d'encadrement au niveau local.

En somme, on peut dire que l'appréciation globale des projets PPD permet de
conclure que les actions génératrices de revenu, les actions d'information,
d'éducation et de communication et les actions de réduction de l'usage du bois à
travers la distribution des fours à gaz constituent les catégories les plus
importantes en termes d'étendue et de mobilisation des populations locales.

En effet, les interviews avec la population locale et les représentants des
associations ont permis de déduire la grande adhésion de la population à ces
actions et de se rendre compte que la demande de leur extension est encore très
forte.

Toutefois, pour capitaliser le processus de développement des actions génératrices
de revenu, il s'avèrera nécessaire de prévoir un appui des associations et des
populations en matière de formation, d'encadrement technique, d'organisation
professionnelle et d'initiation à la mise en place des labels terroirs. En effet,
n'ayant as la capacité en termes de productivité et de compétitivité, les produits de
terroir permettent une différentiation qui permettra de dégager une valeur ajoutée.

Parallèlement, il est nécessaire de renforcer la sensibilisation des populations
vivant dans et autour des aires protégées et les convaincre à admettre que c'est
l'existence de celles-ci et leur durabilité qui conditionnent leur bien-être et leur
développement socio-économique.

Principales déductions

Un taux de réalisation des microprojets PPD très satisfaisant

Le taux de réalisation des microprojets pilotés par les ONG Apex, apprécié par le
nombre de projets réalisé par rapport nombre de projets planifiés, affleure les
100%. Cela dénote que la démarche de sélection des projets et de leurs porteurs
ainsi que l'appui à la mise en oeuvre ont été très satisfaisants.




                                     56
La contribution de la population

Tenant compte du budget alloué, la contribution de la population et des
associations locales, financière ou en nature, a été très significative. Selon les
discussions avec l'ONG SPANA, et selon les ratios Montant engager vs Montant
total, cette contribution est d'environ 20% du coût total.

Les actions mobilisatrices des populations locales

En somme, on peut dire que l'appréciation globale des projets PPD permet de
conclure que les actions génératrices de revenu, les actions d'information,
d'éducation et de communication et les actions de réduction de l'usage du bois à
travers la distribution des fours à gaz constituent les catégories les plus
importantes en termes d'étendue et de mobilisation des populations locales.

En effet, les interviews avec la population locale et les représentants des
associations ont permis de déduire la grande adhésion de la population à ces
actions et de se rendre compte que la demande de leur extension est encore très
forte.

Toutefois, pour capitaliser le processus de développement des actions génératrices
de revenu, il s'avèrera nécessaire de prévoir un appui des associations et des
populations en matière de formation, d'encadrement technique, d'organisation
professionnelle et d'initiation à la mise en place des labels terroirs. En effet,
n'ayant as la capacité en termes de productivité et de compétitivité, les produits de
terroir permettent une différentiation qui permettra de dégager une valeur ajoutée.

Parallèlement, il est nécessaire de renforcer la sensibilisation des populations
vivant dans et autour des aires protégées et les convaincre à admettre que c'est
l'existence de celles-ci et leur durabilité qui conditionnent leur bien-être et leur
développement socio-économique.

La création et la mobilisation des associations

Les matrices 2 et 3 permettent de compter plus de 100 associations ­ douars
créées par les ONG Apex. Dans certains sites où l'activité associative est ancrée
comme le Toubkal et Al Hoceima, les associations ciblées par le projet ont été
renforcées et formées. Notons toutefois qu'en terme de timing, le projet a
coïncidé, dans le site d'Al Hoceima, avec une multiplication conjoncturelle des
associations après la catastrophe de séisme.


                                     57
     Actions communautaires réalisées par l'Administration

     La matrice 3 rapportée en annexe 3 relate les principales actions réalisées par
     l'Administration. Ces actions ont couvert les domaines suivants :

            -   L'aménagement et la création de points d'eau
            -   L'aménagement et la réhabilitation des séguias
            -   L'achat et la distribution des plants et des produits phytosanitaires
            -   L'achat et la distribution du petit outillage
            -   Les aménagements correctifs

     Si on examine la matrice 3, on se rend compte que l'essentiel des actions réalisées
     est investi dans l'appui aux activités agricoles génératrices de revenu et les actions
     de mise à niveau des infrastructures sociales et tout particulièrement celles en
     relation avec l'approvisionnement en eau (potable ou d'irrigation).

4.2.1.3. Evaluation des indicateurs de performance

     Les trois indicateurs de performance retenus sont :

     Indicateur 1. Un cadre partenarial de gestion des ressources naturelles avec les
     populations usagères et les autres intervenants est mis en place
     Indicateur 2. Des actions de développement socio-économique en concertation avec les
     usagers (projets respectueux les critères de durabilité et de zonage et dont les impacts
     négatifs sont atténué) sont mises en oeuvre
     Indicateur 3. Indicateur 3. Le Public est sensibilisé sur l'importance des activités de
     conservation de la biodiversité

     Ces indicateurs sont instruits à partir des indicateurs de réalisation des actions
     (microprojets) ou d'agrégats d'actions (matrices 1, 2 et 3). Ils permettent
     d'évaluer les objectifs sectoriels (sous ­ jacents à l'objectif principal du PAC) et
     les résultats qui permettent de les atteindre.

     Sur la base des données détaillées sur les actions réalisées et de leur appréciation
     globale, ces trois indicateurs de performance et leurs sous - indicateurs sont
     appréciés en adoptant la notation (20% pour le cas de moindre amélioration ou
     changement à 100% comme score de performance maximale). Le tableau 3, 4 et 5
     relate les résultats d'évaluation des ces indicateurs.




                                           58
Tableau 3. Appréciation globale des indicateurs pour toutes les zones confondues
          Indicateurs                            Principales                  Appréciation
                                                 catégories d'action
 Indicateur 1. Un cadre partenarial de gestion des ressources naturelles avec les populations
 usagères et les autres intervenants est mis en place
 Indicateur 1.1. Un cadre partenarial de         Initiation des       Amélioration de 20 % par
 gestion des ressources naturelles avec les      actions de           rapport à la situation initiale
 populations usagères et les ONGs et les         partenariats
 associations est instauré                                            À consolider
 Indicateur 1.2. Des modèles co-gestion des      Formation des        Amélioration de 10 % par
 AP avec les ONGs et associations locales sont membres des            rapport à la situation initiale
 initiées                                        associations locales
                                                                      À consolider
 Success Stories:

 Khénéfisse:

 Instauration de partenariat susceptible de prendre en charge la protection des Ressources Naturelles

 Actions indicatrices:

 -   Renforcement de l'auberge touristique et promotion de l'écotourisme
 -   Organisation de pêcheurs,
 -   Mise en place des conventions de partenariats : Partenariat avec la Délégation de l'Education Nationale
     et surtout la convention entre l'association et la coopérative des pêcheurs. Une autre convention en cours
     de concrétisation concerne la gestion du parking.

 Autre action indicatrice : Habillage et mise en fonction de kiosque d'information. de Figuig en partenariat
 avec les établissements éducatifs et les associations locales.

 Effets multiplicateurs

 -   Les 3 PPD ont généré d'autres projets (PNUD (500 000, 00 H), ADS (700 000,00 DH)
 -   Les autorités locales intègrent la vision et la politique du HCEFLCD en matière de développement local
     associé à l'AP.




                                           59
Tableau 3. Appréciation globale des indicateurs pour toutes les zones confondues (suite)
 Indicateurs                              Principales                      Appréciation
                                          catégories d'action

 Indicateur 2. Des actions de développement socio-économique en concertation avec les usagers
 (projets respectueux les critères de durabilité et de zonage et dont les impacts négatifs sont atténué)
 sont mises en oeuvre

 Indicateur 2.1. Des actions                     -   Apiculture          Amélioration de 40% par rapport à
                                                 -   Ecotourisme         la situation initiale dans les
 génératrices de revenu mises en place
                                                 -   Arboriculture       communautés cibles)
                                                     fruitière
                                                 -   Elevage
 Indicateur 2.2. Actions                         -   Mobilisation de     Amélioration de 10% par apport à
                                                     l'eau               la situation initiale dans les
 sociales réalisées : mise à niveau des
                                                 -   Alimentation en     communautés cibles
 infrastructures de base, mobilisation,              eau potable
 protection et rationalisation des               -   Aménagement
 ressources en eau, assainissement                   des séguias
 solide et liquide etc.                          -   Assainissement




        Local Association « Eau potable »                  Projet « Apiculture » à Taghrmatine




                                  Projet «Appui aux gîtes ruraux »




                                            60
Tableau 3. Appréciation globale des indicateurs pour toutes les zones confondues (suite)
Indicateurs                                   Principales catégories d'action       Appréciation
Indicateur 3. Le Public est sensibilisé sur l'importance des activités de conservation de la
biodiversité
Indicateur 3.1. Des actions directes          -   Distribution des fours et           Amélioration
intéressant la population et permettant de        réchauds à gaz                      de 40%
réduire la pression sur les ressources        -   Lavoirs collectifs
naturelles sont mises en oeuvre
Indicateur 3.2. Des campagnes                 -   Education environnementale          Amélioration
d'Information, d'Education                    -   Campagnes de sensibilisation        de 40%
environnementale et de Communication              et d'information
sont organisées pour des groupes cibles       -   Formation
diversifiés




                                               Rencontre avec des représentants des associations
                Lavoir collectif




                                             Four à gaz




                                        61
        La figure 3 illustre le niveau d'atteinte des indicateurs de performance du PGAP
        (selon cette première ébauche d'évaluation sommaire).
 
                                                                                 I 1. Un cadre partenarial de gestion
                                                                                     des ressources naturelles ...
                                                              Ind.1.1
 
 
 
                                                            40%
           I3. Le Public est sensibilisé sur
                                Ind.3.2                                                   Ind.1.2
                   l'importance des
           activités de conservation de la                  20%
                     biodiversité ...
                                                              0%
 
 
                                  Ind. 3.1                                     I2. Des actions de développement
                                                                                       Ind.2.1
                                                                                       socio-économique
                                                                               en concertation avec les usagers...
     
                                                              Ind 2.2
     
         Indicateur 1.1. Un cadre partenarial de gestion des ressources naturelles avec les populations usagères et les ONGs et
                         les associations est instauré
         Indicateur 1.2. Des modèles co-gestion des AP avec les ONGs et associations locales sont initiées
         Indicateur 2.1. Des actions génératrices de revenu mises en place
         Indicateur 2.2. Actions sociales réalisées : mise à niveau des infrastructures de base, mobilisation, protection et
                         rationalisation des ressources en eau, assainissement solide et liquide etc.
         Indicateur 3.1. Des actions directes intéressant la population et permettant de réduire la pression sur les ressources
                         naturelles sont mises en oeuvre
         Indicateur 3.2. Des campagnes d'Information, d'Education environnementale et de Communication sont organisées
                         pour des groupes cibles diversifiés



               Figure 3. Appréciation relative des indicateurs de performance


        Par rapport à la situation initiale, nous constatons que le Programme d'Actions
        Communautaires a montré, à travers les actions ­ PPD, une performance
        appréciable dans les domaines suivants :

                L'Information, l'Education et la Communication sur l'importance de la
                biodiversité et sur les relations à bénéfices mutuels entre la population et
                les aires protégées. Cela suscite l'intérêt des communautés locales à la
                conservation des ressources naturelles. Les actions engagées dans ce
                domaine ont été très variées et ont touché différents groupes cibles (les
                agriculteurs, les éleveurs, les femmes, les écoliers etc.).


                                                       62
       L'initiation à la mise en place des activités génératrices de revenu à travers
       la promotion de l'arboriculture fruitière et des activités d'élevages caprin,
       ovin et apicole et la promotion de l'écotourisme

       L'initiation de la réduction de la pression sur le bois à travers la
       distribution des fours à gaz.

Toutefois, en dehors des partenariats institutionnels conclus avec le Ministère de
Tourisme et d'autres organismes et en dehors des conventions établies dans le
cadre du projet entre les associations et le HCEFLCD et les ONG Apex et entre
celles-ci et les associations locales, on n'a pas encore assisté à la mise en place de
cadres ou modèles de gestion partenariale et/ou contractuelle durables des aires
protégées dans lesquels les populations locales et/ou les associations sont
engagées. Il est ainsi recommandé de débattre de cet aspect lors d'un atelier
national en vue d'émettre des recommandations et orientations qui guideront la
genèse de ce type de dispositifs.

Les expériences réussies au niveau de Khénifisse sont toutefois à suivre et à
documenter davantage.

En termes relatifs, et étant données les étendues importantes des parcs nationaux
et SIBES et les effectifs élevés des populations concernées, on ne peut pas
s'attendre à des performances « quantitativement » importants lorsqu'ils sont
exprimés par les différents paramètres liés aux différentes actions :

           -   Population touchée par rapport à la population totale concernée par
               l'aire protégée
           -   Superficie plantée en arboriculture fruitière par rapport à la
               superficie initiale
           -   Accroissement du volume de production arboricole escompté suite
               aux interventions du projet
           -   Valeur des ventes des produits (agricoles, d'élevage, d'artisanat ou
               d'écotourisme) induite par les interventions du projet.
           -   Taux de réduction de la pression sur la coupe de bois suite à la
               promotion de l'usage butane.
           -   Etc.




                                     63
4.2.1.3. Evaluation des indicateurs d'impact

     Il est très difficile d'instruire les indicateurs d'impact qui évaluent deux aspects
     importants en relation avec l'objectif principal du PAC et l'objectif global du
     PGAP : (i) les changements d'attitude des populations et le niveau de leur prise de
     conscience vis-à-vis des aires protégées suite aux interventions du programme, (ii)
     l'instauration des partenariats de co - gestion au niveau local et (iii) les synergies
     déclenchées par le programme entre la protection des aires protégées et
     l'amélioration des conditions de vie de la population

     Des éléments importants peuvent être toutefois considérés comme précurseurs à
     des impacts significatifs du PGAP à travers les actions inscrites dans la
     composante PAC :

        -   La création d'une centaine d'associations et leur initiation par les ONGs
            Apex. Ces dernières ont joué un rôle primordial dans la réussite des
            actions communautaires et ont assuré une fonction d'apprentissage vis-à-
            vis des jeunes associations et d'information des populations locales à
            travers des messages adéquats lors des processus de planification et de
            mise en oeuvre des microprojets.

        -   La mobilisation des associations existantes notamment à Toubkal et Al
            Hoceima autour des actions en relation directe ou indirecte avec la
            compréhension de la philosophie des aires protégées qui réside dans la
            conciliation entre le développement socio-économique des populations
            locales et la protection des ressources naturelles qui garantissaient la
            durabilité de ce développement ; et

        -   L'initiation, quoique limitée, d'un début de partenariat et de convention
            incarnant les objectifs dus aires protégées.

     Aussi, deux autres aspects peuvent être comptabilisés parmi les grands impacts du
     PAC/PGAP :

            -   La contribution à l'établissement d'un climat de confiance entre la
                population locale et l'Administration forestière et en particulier le
                service de gestion des parcs et sites ; et

            -   Le déclenchement d'une collaboration avec les autorités locales qui
                ont intégré dans plusieurs sites la politique du HCEFLCD en matière
                de développement local associé à l'AP




                                          64
4.2.1.3. Conditionnalités pour une capitalisation des acquis et
recommandations

     Modalités pour la suite

     Pour une bonne capitalisation des acquis, un certain nombre de conditionnalités
     s'avèreront importantes à remplir :

        (i)     L'identification urgente des modalités permettant d'assurer la
                continuité des actions entamées
        (ii)    La mobilisation des moyens pour la dissémination et l'extension des
                actions réussies
        (iii)   l'information des associations et des populations locales sur la clôture
                du Projet PGAP et sur les projets futurs éventuels.

     Les déterminants des Aires Protégées : nécessité d'implication et d'engagement
     de tous les acteurs concernés

     Etant donnée l'importance de la conservation des ressources naturelles pour un
     développement durable du pays, le HCEFLCD ne peut garantir à lui seul la
     gestion des AP. Il y a lieu de considérer les déterminants des AP qui sont sociaux,
     économiques, éducatifs, culturels etc. (Figure 4). Pour cela, une gestion
     rationnelle et appropriée des aires protégées requiert la mise en place d'un
     dispositif organisationnel et institutionnel qui implique tous les départements
     ministériels concernés avec la coordination assurée par el département compétent
     (HCEFLCD). Ce dispositif devra aussi définir les rôles et les contributions des
     différentes parties.

     La loi relative aux aires protégées récemment approuvée par le Conseil des
     Ministres prévoit dans les articles relatifs à l'aménagement et la gestion des AP
     des mécanismes de concertation avec les acteurs concernés amis demeure peu
     étoffée en matière d'engagement de toutes les parties prenantes clés.




                                         65
                                           Education
                                           Nationale
          Département
               de
          l'équipement
                                                                    Département
                                                                         de
                                                                    l'Agriculture
                                        Aires
                                      Protégées
        Min. Intérieur
          /DGCL

                                                               Département
                                 Départements                  de Tourisme
                                 de l'Eau et de
                                 l'Environnem
                                         t


       Figure 4. Les déterminants d'une gestion durable des aires protégées

La nécessité de cette contribution de tous les acteurs concernés peut être
argumenté par le fait que le processus de gestion rationnelle de ces ressources est
entravé par le faible niveau socio-économique des populations des zones en
question, par les faiblesses dans les domaines d'éducation scolaire et par le déficit
en infrastructures et équipements de base. Dans ce contexte, il est très délicat de
s'attendre à une adhésion et une implication des populations dans la protection et
la gestion des AP. Ce constat peut être étayé par la nature du plaidoyer des
populations qui se focalisent essentiellement sur l'approvisionnement en eau
potable, la construction des routes, des pistes et des ponts, la mise en place des
services de santé et sur l'amélioration de leur revenu. Cela revient à consolider,
dans le cadre de collaboration entre les départements les plus concernés, à
renforcer les actions similaires au chantier lancé dans le cadre de l'INDH.

L'importance d'appui aux ONG locales

Il est aussi recommandé dans les interventions futures de renforcer davantage les
capacités des associations locales qui jouent un très grand rôle dans la dynamique
locale. Parmi les forts besoins à combler, on peut citer la formation dans les
domaines de techniques d'animation et de dynamique des groupes, la planification
des projets, les procédures administratives, informatiques et bureautiques etc.


                                     66
Mise en place d'un Observatoire National des Aires Protégées

Il est recommandé de mettre en place un observatoire national des aires protégées
doté de :

   -   Indicateurs nationaux et indicateurs spécifiques aux contextes des parcs et
       sites d'intérêts biologiques ;
   -   Tableau de bord ; et
   -   Base de données dynamique




                                   67
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not required (however, see Annexes 2 and 5).




                                         68
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(Translation of the PCU's own summary of its Final Report)

After the Rio Summit, countries were asked to develop a national strategy on protected
areas. Morocco was among the first countries to develop a master plan of protected areas
and implement its national strategy for a sustainable management of biodiversity through
the establishment of a national network of protected areas.

Thus, the country has received a grant from the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
which main objective is to contribute to the implementation of the above national system
of protected areas. The Protected Areas Management Project (PGAP GEF-TF023494-
MOR) came in time to support the strategy of the country through achieving three
specific objectives namely:
   Improving the conservation of globally significant ecosystems and species;
   Contributing to the establishment of a system of protected areas in Morocco;
   Strengthening the institutional capacity for sustainable conservation management .

The PGAP amounting 15.7 million U.S. dollars, broken down as follows: $10.5m GEF
grant, $4.1m Recipient's contribution (Kingdom of Morocco) and $1.1m from
community participation has reached cross-cutting and downstream axes and involved 13
sites including three national parks and 10 other protected areas classified as SIBE /
Reserves. The 13 sites represent a sample of Morocco bio-geographic regions, and was
thus in line with the GEF's operational strategy and in compliance with the four
operational objectives in the field of biodiversity conservation. The project was
implemented through four components:
   National capacity building
   National parks management
   Reserves management
   Public awareness and communication

Initially designed for 6 years starting in 2000, the project was extended for a further two
years and the closing date set for June 30 in 2008. The project has achieved significant
results insofar as the momentum around the issue of protected areas in Morocco has
reached a high level of development and awareness with very positive impacts on the
institutional level with the creation of a Department of Parks and Natural Reserves and
the preparation of a draft law on protected areas. This law will revolutionize the theme of
protected areas in Morocco, preserve its unique biodiversity, ensure maximum
involvement of other actors and stakeholders in managing these globally significant
natural areas in a participatory and partnership spirit and turn them into socio-economic
development centers at both local and regional level.



                                            69
Specifically, the project has achieved the following results for each component:

1. Training: Significant support was provided to both forestry-training institutions by
enhancing their training courses on protected areas through the inclusion of a
specialization program at the National School of Forestry Engineering (ENFI) and two
training modules in that field at the Royal Forestry Technical Institute (ITREF). Now the
High Commissariat for Water and Forest and Combating Desertification (HCEFLCD)
profiles have specialized in protected areas. Similarly, two training modules were
designed and implemented for the benefit of 55 staff during two weeks, not to mention
more than a dozen training sessions organized by HCEFLCD external services for
professionals and technicians in charge of protected areas. As for the establishment of a
Geographic Information System (GIS, a documented geo-database on Morocco protected
areas was designed and implemented, and 8 professionals have been trained in GIS and
databases for management of these decision tools.

2. Technical Assistance: In project management and support to the services for the
protection of nature, assistance was provided for project management throughout the
project through the provision national and international experts in various sectors. Also, a
system of ecological monitoring of biodiversity has been developed and tested at two
sites, and a strategic study of wild ungulate populations in Morocco was developed and
validated.

3. Implementation of Management Plans for the three National Parks: Management
infrastructures and resources were made available to managers to enable them to better
manage these natural areas. In the improving conservation of globally significant
ecosystems and species component, almost 75 hectares of vegetative cover has been
regenerated in the Toubkal national Park and more than 1,000 hectares of wildlife reserve
have been managed sustainably. Also, development of eco touristic activities has been
carried out as well as socio-economic development actions for local communities living
within and around national parks. Information and awareness tools have been developed
and disseminated and awareness-raising workshops were organized.

4. Management of Reserves: Five management plans have been developed and validated
for the five priority reserves, namely: Khnifiss that became a national Park in the
framework of the project, Tamga, Jbel Moussa, Chakhar and Jbel Krouz. Management
Infrastructures have been produced and / or upgraded. Resources for equipment were
made available to the staff in charge of protected areas for a better management of those
natural spaces. Eco touristic and recreational activities were created. Similarly, 400
hectares of vegetation was reconstructed with the Atlas cedars and Alep pines, and nearly
460 hectares of wildlife reserves were developed for bighorn sheep and gazelles. Finally,
socio-economic development actions were carried out to benefit local communities, along
with awareness raising, training and information. Also, information and awareness tools
have been developed and disseminated.

5. Public Awareness and Communication: A communication plan and a communication
strategy around protected areas were developed, validated and implemented. A press



                                            70
conference was organized for the first time within the department on protected areas,
followed by the publication of over twenty printed articles. A 26 minutes documentary
video was performed with a stock of 24 hours of filming to achieve other informative
spots on protected areas of Morocco. A visual identity of protected areas was developed
and validated through a unifying logo of protected areas declined in eight other logos for
specific national parks created. A website for protected areas was designed and built, and
a book on protected areas developed and finalized, and its publication and distribution are
planned for 2009. A map was developed and 6 information centers have been
constructed/developed and equipped with communications tools in addition to equipping
the Museum of Toubkal National Park.

In parallel with this sub component, a Small Grants Program, which helps local
communities to raise awareness on conservation of nature, was supported through
national NGOs known as Apex. The program has involved the three national parks and
then expanded to five priority reserves given its importance and its results. As a matter of
fact, the result of the program was very positive with significant impacts. More than a
hundred projects have been realized for the benefit of over 80 local douars (communities).

Apart from the physical and/or quantitative aspect, the project has contributed to the
implementation of the national system of protected areas and gave an important impetus
to the preservation and management of ecosystems and globally significant species in
Morocco.

However, the system or the financial channel adopted did not use all the funds, even if
these funds were used for nearly 92%. It is actually a unique project in terms of
institutional and financial set up which includes 13 sites scattered throughout Morocco,
and as many officers, financial controllers and treasurers, making the coordination,
supervision and management difficult and costly.

Thus, for the future, the main lesson to be drawn at the end of this project is that for any
project related to natural resources conservation and sustainable participative
development, it is necessary and imperative to adopt a more flexible institutional and
financial framework, relevant enough to allow the maximum benefit from such a project
with national and global scope.

On the other hand, it is important to point out that the said Project remains an innovative
project for GEF in as much as it has allowed the reinforcement of the institutional
capacity of the Department in several sites at the national level, and this constitutes
presently an eligibility criteria for future projects to be financed by the GEF. This leads
us to understand that the Project anticipated GEF's present policy, since it was
formulated and implemented eight years ago.




                                            71
Key Extracts from the Borrower's Full ICR Document:


2. PRINCIPAUX OUT PUT DIRECT ET INDIRECT DU PROJET DE GESTION
   DES AIRES PROTEGEES (PGAP)

2.1 OUTPUT DIRECT

2.1.1 EN MATIERE DE RENFORCEMENT DE CAPACITE NATIONALE D'INTERVENTION :
    Mise en place d'une option de spécialisation et de modules de formation
       spécifiques aux aires protégées au niveau des deux institutions de formation
       forestière, afin de mettre à la disposition du Haut Commissariat aux Eaux et
       Forêts des cadres qualifiés et à des profils adaptés ;
    Formation du personnel du Haut Commissariat sur la thématique des aires
       protégées, et renforcement de leurs capacités à travers le contact et `échange avec
       les experts engagés par le PGAP durant sa phase de mise en oeuvre ;
    Mise en place d'une unité SIG au niveau central et de trois unités SIG au niveau
       des trois parcs nationaux ;
    Elaboration d'une base de données géo référencées pour les aires protégées du
       Maroc ;
    Elaboration des lignes directrices et d'un plan stratégiques pour la gestion des
       populations d'ongulés au Maroc ;
    Elaboration de cinq plans d'Aménagement et de Gestion pour Cinq Sites de
       première priorité dont le Parc National de Khnifiss
    Conception et mise en place d'un système informatisé de gestion administrative et
       financière de projet ;
    Equipement de la division des Parcs et Réserves Naturelles par divers matériel de
       bureau, technique et informatique
    Elaboration d'un système de suivi évaluation des aires protégées basé sur un audit
       à trois niveaux ;
    Elaboration d'un système de suivi écologique de la biodiversité pour les aires
       protégées du Maroc ;

2.1.2 MATIERE D'AMENAGEMENT DES PARCS ET RESERVES NATURELLES
    Création du Parc National de Khnifiss
    Mise en place des infrastructures de base pour la gestion des parcs et réserves
      concernés par le projet : unités de gestion, bâtiments, voies d'accès ;
    Equipement des unités de gestion des sites par divers matériels de locomotion,
      informatique, bureautique, technique, nécessaires pour la gestion des aires
      protégées ;
    Aménagement et gestion des réserves de faune ;
    Réhabilitation de certains écosystèmes naturels d'importance pour la
      biodiversité ;
    Elaboration d'une charte signalétique pour les aires protégées du Maroc
    Aménagement et valorisation des sites par la promotion de l'écotourisme ;




                                           72
    Développement d'actions participatives avec les communautés locales, et mise en
    place de cadres partenariaux avec les populations locales au niveau des sites, et
    constitution d'un tissu associatif qui pourrait à l'avenir appuyer les initiatives de
    l'administration en matière de conservation et de valorisation des ressources
    naturelles et de la biodiversité ;

2.1.3 EN MATIERE DE COMMUNICATION ET DE SENSIBILISATION
    Elaboration d'une stratégie de communication autour des aires protégées ;
    Elaboration d'une identité visuelle pour les aires protégées du Maroc et sa
       déclinaison pour huit parcs nationaux ;
    Elaboration d'un site web pour les aires protégées ;
    Réalisation d'une vidéo-documentaire sur les aires protégées marocaines ;
    Elaboration d'une charte signalétique pour les aires protégées ;
    Equipement des centres d'information et des écomusées en outils de
       communication ;
    Conception et édition de brochures et documents d'information et de
       sensibilisation destinés aux visiteurs

2.2 OUTPUT INDIRECT

    Création d'une division des Parcs et Réserves Naturelles ;
    Mise en place d'une dynamique généralisée au niveau des aires protégées
    marocaines ;
    L'intérêt accordé aux aires protégées est devenus de plus en plus important ;
    Prise de conscience accrue de la thématique des aires protégées au niveau des
    autorités régionales, provinciales et locales, ainsi qu'au niveau des collectivités
    régionales et locales ;
    Participation actives des autorités et collectivités aux efforts entrepris par le Haut
    Commissariat en matière de développement et de valorisation des aires
    protégées ;
    Développement de partenariat avec d'autres acteurs impliqués dans la
    conservation des ressources naturelles ;
    Elaboration de textes juridiques nouveaux dont un spécifique aux aires protégées
    et l'autre à la protection des espèces de faune et de flore menacées d'extinction
    par la réglementation de leurs commerce internationale ;
    Création de nouveaux parcs nationaux et préparation de projet de création de
    réserves de biosphère ;
    Développement de nouveaux projets au niveau d'autres aires protégées ;
    Valorisation du réseau national d'aires protégées ;
    Organisation d'un atelier international sur l'écotourisme dans les aires protégées.

2.3 LES GRANDS CHANTIERS MIS EN PLACE PAR LE PROJET DE
GESTION DES AIRES PROTEGEES

    Option de spécialisation « Gestion des aires protégées » au niveau de l'ENFI ;
    Base de données géo référencées sur les aires protégées du Maroc ;



                                           73
       Stratégie de communication sur les aires protégées ;
       Site web sur les aires protégées ;
       24 heures de tournages au niveau des aires protégées du Maroc ;
       Une photothèque composée de plus de 500 photos de très haute résolution

L'ensemble de ces grands chantiers nécessite un suivi rigoureux et un
développement continu afin de capitaliser ces acquis très importants et les
utiliser pour la valorisation du réseau national d'aires protégées
marocaines.

2.4 LES ACTIONS ENTAMEES, ET A ACHEVER PAR LA PARTIE
MAROCAINE

     La construction des unités de gestion du Parc National d'Al Hoceima et du futur
     Parc National de Jbel Moussa
     La construction de l'entrepôt des pécheurs à Naila, Parc National de Khnifiss ;
     L'impression de l'Atlas des Aires Protégées ;
     Acquisition des logiciels et mise à jour des autres logiciel de la cellule SIG au
     niveau central
.
.
.

4. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS ET RESULTATS

L'analyse du cadre logique amélioré du PGAP et des indicateurs de suivi permet
de conclure que le projet PGAP a atteint ses objectifs tel qu'ils sont définis.

4.1 Amélioration de la conservation des écosystèmes et des espèces
d'intérêt global ;

Ainsi :
    La régénération et la protection du milieu végétal ont été assurées dans des
        écosystèmes d'importance pour la nature : cédraie, thuriféraie, pinède ;
    Des enclos pour la réhabilitation des populations animales ont été réalisés et/ ou
        aménagés, et des appuis à la gestion de la faune ont été assurés ;
    Une stratégie nationale et un plan d'action pour la gestion des populations
        d'ongulés a été élaborée et validée ;

4.2 Contribution à l'établissement d'un système d'aires protégées au
Maroc ;

       Elaboration et validation de cinq Plans d'Aménagement et de Gestion pour es
       sites hautement prioritaires ;




                                           74
      Quatre parcs nationaux sont doté de structures de gestion composées d'un
      directeur de parc, de personnel collaborateurs (cadres, techniciens, gardiens), et de
      moyens nécessaires à la gestion, en plus des autres sites Réserves ;
      Trois parcs nationaux et cinq réserves sont dotés d'objectifs de développement et
      de conservation à moyen terme ;
       155 actions de petits dons ont été réalisées pour renforcer la sensibilisation à la
      conservation de la nature, et autant de convention signées avec les communautés
      locales ;
      Trois grandes conventions ont été signées avec les acteurs du tourisme pour la
      valorisation des sites : Azilal, Al Hoceima et Tanger dans le cadre du programme
      des Pays d'Accueil Touristiques;
      Quatre Plans d'Action Communautaire ont été élaboré ;
      Plus d'une centaine d'actions de développement des communautés ont été
      réalisées ;

4.3 Renforcement de capacité institutionnelle en matière de gestion durable
    et de conservation

      15 cadres gestionnaires d'aires protégées ont bénéficiés de voyages d'étude,
      d'échange et de formation à l'étranger et 50 techniciens ont été formé en approche
      participative ;
      Deux modules de formation continue ont été organisés et 45 personnes ont
      bénéficié de cette formation continue (cadres et techniciens) ;
      Une option de spécialisation a été mise en lace au niveau de l'Ecole des
      Ingénieurs forestiers, et deux modules de formations spécifiques sur les aires
      protégées ont été introduits dans le cursus de formation de l'Institut de formation
      des techniciens forestiers. Deux promotions se sont sortie pendant la durée du
      projet et sont affecté dans es aires protégées ;
      Une base de données géo référencées sur es aires protégées a été mise en place au
      niveau de l'unité centrale SIG , et trois parcs nationaux sont dotés de matériel SIG.
      Aussi, 8 cadres marocain en été formés dans le domaine SIG et base de données ;
      Un système de suivi évaluation des aires protégées a été élaboré et validé par
      l'administration, puis testé au niveau de certains sites, notamment e Parc National
      de Toubkal ;
      Un Plan de Communication a été élaborée et une stratégie de communication a été
      validée ;
      Plus d'une dizaine d'ateliers et de journées de sensibilisation ont été organisés au
      niveau des sites.

5. FACTEURS PRINCIPAUX                 AFFECTANT          L'EXECUTION          ET    LES
   RESULTATS

Plusieurs facteurs ont influencés le bon déroulement du projet PGAP. Ces
facteurs ont pour origine en particulier :




                                           75
L'élaboration du document d'exécution du projet :

Sur la base du Plan Directeur des aires protégées, le document d'exécution du PGAP a
été élaboré en prenant en considération les aspects relatifs aux suivis scientifiques, en
donnant ainsi au PGAP une connotation scientifique qui s'avère non prioritaire pendant
cette période de mise en oeuvre du Plan Directeur des Aires protégées.

D'autre part, le Costab (Tableau des Couts) a du être bondonnée puisque la planification
a été jugé non judicieuse. A ce titre, et pendant la période de mise en oeuvre du projet,
une planification annuelle a été suivie en tenant compte des réalités du terrain et des
besoins immédiats exprimés par les gestionnaires pour une meilleure gestion des espaces
naturelles.

De même, certaines priorités ont été senti lors e la planification en matière de dynamique
mise en lace par les équipes de gestion dont l'impact est un avancement rapide dans
l'exécution des actions. Pour cela, certains sites ont bénéficiés d'un soutien important des
fonds du projet plus que d'autres, contrairement à ce qui a été prévue dans le document
du projet.

Le montage lui même du projet :

Le Montage institutionnel et financier du projet PGAP est unique en son genre au Maroc,
et probablement dans les autres pays. La quasi-totalité des problèmes rencontrées pendant
l'exécution du projet ont eu pour origine son montage fait à a base.

Pour avoir une idée sur la question, il faut simplement se référer aux divers aides
mémoires de la banque pour constater les difficultés rencontrées dans toutes les phases
d`exécution du projet.

         a- Domicilier le compte du Don à Wachington, alors que la mobilisation des
     fonds (remboursement des dépenses) ne peut être faite que sur la base de l'envoi
     des pièces justificatives à la Banque est un grand handicap ;

        b- Domicilier les fonds du projet dans un petit compte SEGMA est un facteur
     aussi bloquant dans la liquidation des sommes dus ;

Le circuit financier du projet est de ce fait très lourd et très bloquant eu égard aux
objectifs à atteindre pendant l'échéance du PGAP

Les conditions d'exécution du projet ou les préalables :

Trois conditions préalables à a réussite du PGAP ont été définie dans le document du
projet :
    a- Décentralisation accrue ;
    b- Gestion flexible ;
    c- Application de l'approche participative.



                                            76
Concernant le premier point, La décentralisation accrue fait intervenir plusieurs acteurs et
intervenants dont 13 sous ordonnateurs, et autant de contrôleurs financiers et de trésoriers.

Le manque ou l`insuffisance de formation en particulier en matière de directives et de
procédures de la banque, la mobilité du personnel intervenant aussi bien des finances que
du département des Eaux et Forêts n'ont en aucun cas facilité la tache pour la gestion du
projet. Les interprétations différentes des textes et des règlements de la part des agents
des finances ont contribué aussi à la lourdeur du système de gestion administratif et
comptable du projet.

Quant à la gestion flexible, et en domiciliant les fons du projet dans un Service Géré de
manière autonome (SEGMA) qui relève d'une autre direction de l'administration, puis le
changement des textes dudit SEGMA juste après le démarrage du projet, la gestion du
PGAP n'est plus flexible, ce qui a affecté très négativement l'avancement du projet.

Enfin, pour l'application participative, cette démarche nécessite du temps et des
préalables pour sa réussite, alors que dans certains sites, cette démarche viens de s'initier
avec le projet PGAP, ce qui nécessite tout d'abord de la formation, de l'organisation et du
suivi permanent et rapproché au sein des communautés. Certaines actions
communautaires ne peuvent être réalisées sans pour autant la mise en place de préalables
et de facteurs de réussite. Cette manière de faire contribue aussi à une lenteur dans la
mise en oeuvre d'action de développement pendant les premières années du projet.

Mais, à la fin du projet, il a été constaté que dans plusieurs sites oùun travail profond a
été mené avec les populations locales, la démarche pourrait réussir dans le futur en
matière de planfication, de réalisation, de suivi et de prise en charge des actions.

La phase de démarrage du projet :

Lors de la phase de démarrage du projet, plusieurs handicaps ont rencontré le projet
PGAP :

   a- La nomination tardive de l'Ordonnateur du SEGMA et des 13 sous ordonnateurs
      intervenue après le changement des textes du SEGMA ;
   b- La mise en place des équipes de gestion du projet au niveau central et extérieur.
   c- L'organisation de la Cellule de Gestion du Projet ;
   d- La mise en lace tardive de l'assistance technique ;
   e- La mise en place de la composante formation qui n'a pas eu lieu comme prévue,
      eu égard à l'appel d'offres infructueux ;

L'élaboration du document d'exécution du projet :

L'appel d'offres infructueux du volet formation a aussi affecté le projet dans sa phase de
démarrage et de mise en oeuvre. Il en est de même pour la formation des divers




                                             77
intervenants en matière de directives et de procédures de la banque qui devrait intervenir
bien avant le démarrage du projet.

L'affectation d'une personne formée et spécialiste en gestion financière au projet est
indiquée dans le document du projet come une condition de réussite du PGAP, alors que
ce poste n'a jamais été comblé.

La mobilité du personnel de l'administration :

La mobilité du personnel relevant aussi bien du département des Eaux et Forêts que des
finances a aussi contribué sensiblement au retard dans l'avancement du PGAP.

L'Agence d'exécution du projet (la Banque Mondiale) :

Pour ce qui est de l'Agence d'exécution du projet PGAP qu'est la Banque Mondiale, il y
a lieu aussi de constater certaines anomalies dont en particulier :

   Chargé du dossier PGAP à la banque : 4 chargés du projet relevant de la banque se
      sont succédé tout au long de la période du projet, avec des périodes relativement
      vides lors des passages des consignes, ce qui n'a pas manqué d'avoir des
      répercutions négatives sur le suivi du projet, notamment en matière parfois de
      validation rapide de certains documents ;
   Le manque d'un interlocuteur pour le projet au niveau du bureau de la banque à Rabat
      pour régler certaines questions urgentes, afin de faciliter les contacts.


6. VIABILITÉ/ DURABILITÉ

La durabilité / viabilité des actions réalisées et des programmes mis en oeuvre dans le
cadre du projet PGAP est conditionnée par la poursuite des acquis et l'accomplissement
de certaines actions pour pérenniser ce acquis. On cite notamment :

       La promulgation urgente de la loi sur les aires protégées ;
       L'opérationnalisation des structures de gestion des parcs et réserves naturelles
       L'affectation du personnel supplémentaire aux sites ;
       Le développement et la gestion de la base de données géo référencées sur les aires
       protégées mise en place par le PGAP ;
       La mise en oeuvre de la stratégie et du plan d'action pour la gestion des
       populations d'ongulés ;
       La mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de communication ;
       La poursuite des efforts accomplis en matière d'élaboration et de mise en oeuvre
       des ans d'action communautaires ;
       L'exécution régulière des modules de formation continue et l'appui continu des
       établissements de formation forestière pour le renforcement de la formation en
       matière d'aires protégées, à travers le fonctionnement du pole d'excellence initié
       au niveau de l'ENFI ;



                                           78
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                    79
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1   Government of Morocco - "Etude de definition d'un reseau d'Aires et Sites Proteges
    et Elaboration des Plans de Gestion des Parcs nationaux du Maroc", Ministere de
    l'Agriculture, du developpement rural et de la peche maritime - 1996

2   World Bank - Project Appraisal Document (PAD), "Protected Areas Management
    Project" - Report No. 19917-MOR, January 2000

3   World Bank ­ "GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 023494-MOR" ­ February 2000
    (and formal amendments: December 2003, October 2004, November 2004 and
    January 2006)

4   World Bank ­ "Quality at Entry Assessment, MA-Protected Areas Management" ­
    QAG Panel led by F. Swartzendruber ­ March 2001

5   World Bank - "Quality of Supervision Assessment, MA-Protected Areas
    Management" ­ QAG Panel led by F. Swartzendruber ­ September 2006

6   World Bank ­ "Implemenation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)", #1 (June 2000)
    to #20 (June 2008) and associated Supervision Mission Aide Memoires

7   PGAP PCU ­ "Rapport Final", Haut Commissariat aux Eaux et Forêts et à la Lutte
    Contre Désertification - Septembre 2008

8   PGAP PCU ­ "Evaluation de la composante du PGAP relative au Programme
    d'Actions Communautaires (PAC)", A detailed evaluation of the Commuunity
    Action Programs. Agriconsulting ­ October 2008

9   FAO - Aide Memoire: "Inputs for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of
    the PGAP, MOROCCO" ­ Including a detailed analysis of the achievements in each
    Protected Area and a Management Effectiveness analysis to yield METT scores.
    G.H. Mattravers Messana, Protected Area Specialist - November 2008




                                         80
Annex 10. Proposal for a Follow-up Phase


The PCU team earlier this year planned to extend the PGAP Project by a further 2 years
in order to complete the remaining activities (mainly building the infrastructure in the
National Parks). Accordingly the Supervision Mission in mid-May looked in great detail
at the proposal and came to the conclusion that the improved implementation rate
justified an extension of at least 18 months. However at the wrap-up meeting, the
Director took the decision that the ministry will continue to finance all the ongoing
activities, because they now want the Bank's assistance to move quickly with the
preparation of a follow-up project. As a result, the PGAP project closed its operations, as
planned, on June 30, 2008.

Since then, several factors have come together in support of launching a new phase of
operations to support the further development of Morocco's network of protected areas.
Firstly and most importantly, the Protected Areas Law was finally passed by the Council
of Ministers (the draft text of the law is attached below for reference). This important
legislation confers the resources and authority that the High Commission of Water and
Forests needs to effectively manage their expanding network of national parks in
participation with the local communities and in partnership with the private sector as well
as external development agencies. Secondly, the environment agenda has been declared
a national priority and a series of new initiatives have already been launched by the King
in support of protecting the country's natural resources. And thirdly, eco-tourism is
rising globally, but Morocco is fast becoming one of the most important and diverse
destinations for environmentally-conscious and adventurous tourists, but this
uncontrolled growth is also threatening the very ecosystems that are creating the
attraction.

Initial discussions with the High Commission have already shown that there is a strong
basis for the Bank to support a new operation, which would concentrate on the following
core activities:
   Implementing the requirements of the new Protected Areas Law in converting the
   protected areas into full National Parks
   Developing the structure of the High Commission to meet the organizational needs of
   the Law
   Supporting the decentralizing of budget and operations to the National Parks to allow
   them to be more autonomous
   Developing the framework to encourage external financing to support the
   administration of the Parks
   Developing the participation of the local communities in the operation and
   maintenance of the Parks
   Developing a program of sustainable tourism




                                            81
So despite the setbacks and delays during the implementation of the PGAP project, it has
nevertheless achieved most of its objectives and most importantly it has successfully
prepared the ground for the more formal organization and long-term administration of the
country's national parks. The following is a summary of the positive impacts of the
PGAP project which will form a solid foundation for developing a new operation:

Project Design: The original project design may have been a little too ambitious, but it
was also innovative as the first and only project which has so far targeted the
establishment and expansion of a national network of Protected Areas in Morocco. And
it is this broad national vision which has underpinned some of the key results delivered
by the project. In turn, these will serve as important building blocks for developing
future initiatives.
Institutional Strengthening: The establishment of a Division of Protected Areas is a very
significant development to which the PGAP Project contributed directly. This is a key
step in mainstreaming the Protected Areas agenda within the Moroccan institutional
landscape and policy framework. Similarly, PGAP helped revive (and ultimately
approve) the dormant Protected Areas law.
Human Resources: The establishment of a specific Protected Areas Management training
course at the ENFI (the national forestry training school) is a significant milestone - no
other country in the region has achieved this yet. And it contributes directly to the
establishment, expansion and long-term sustainability of the national system of Protected
Areas.
Establishment of new Protected Areas: The PGAP has contributed directly to the
establishment of several new Protected Areas (e.g. Chekhar, Grouz, Tamga, Jbel Moussa,
Khenifiss, etc.). Some have been more successful than others (e.g. Khenifiss) but it
should be noted that before the project, these sites were only identified on paper. Now
they have largely been materialized and benefit from functional management units, basic
infrastructure, collaborative management agreements, management plans, etc. Even one
of the older National Parks (the PNHAO) was gazetted with support from the project, its
headquarters constructed and its first director nominated in 2008 ­ which will have a
significant impact on biodiversity. This process, measured in terms of management
effectiveness, has been clearly illustrated by the increase in Management Effectiveness
(METT) scores across all the Protected Areas from 2003 to 2008.
National Conservation Policy: The PGAP project has developed a national strategy for
the management of ungulates, fully endorsed by the High Commission as well as by
specialized international bodies such as the Sahelo-Saharan Species Interest Group
(SSIG) and the IUCN Species Reintroduction Group. This is the first such tool
developed in Morocco and, apart from its intrinsic value, it provides a reference for future
species conservation plans to be developed for other taxa.
Information Education Communication:         The PGAP project has contributed to
establishing a dedicated Information Education Communication (IEC) unit within the
Protected Areas division. By developing and implementing a targeted communication
strategy (the first within the High Commission) it has directly supported the emergence




                                            82
of new advocacy and marketing skills which are increasingly being drawn upon and
widely adopted by the High Commission.
Interpretation Facilities: The PGAP project has built and equipped the first generation of
ecomuseums and information centers in Moroccan Protected Areas with their full
complement of displays and other visitor facilities (apart from Sidi Boughaba which is a
special case and the only site where the management has been delegated to an NGO).
Again this constitutes a critical step in Moroccan Protected Area policy, opening up new
perspectives on the role of Protected Areas while contributing to unlocking their eco-
tourism potential.
Strategic Partnerships: Though there is clearly still a lot to do, the PGAP project has the
somewhat intangible but nevertheless significant merit of having brought the issue of
such partnerships to the forefront in the thinking of the High Commission. This is a key
shift in the culture of the "Water and Forests" sector, which is now realizing the necessity
for strategic partnerships as a key tool in advancing the Protected Areas agenda ­
particularly for the port authorities in Moussa, the Emirates in the western region, the
private tourism sector in the High Atlas, the NGOs, etc.

Accordingly, the World Bank has the opportunity to play a key role in the development
of a significant follow-up operation, but it should ensure that the lessons learned from the
PGAP experience are adequately reviewed and applied. In particular, any new project
should fully resolve the following points as early as possible in the preparation process
and certainly prior to negotiation:
   Establish a workable financial mechanism (e.g. a standard Special Account) to ensure
   a flexible and efficient flow of funds
   Create a fully-staffed PCU with clear terms of reference, responsibilities and
   reporting lines
   Assign the project to a director in the High Commission who is willing to be its
   champion
   Explore external funding partnerships (especially among the European bilateral
   development agencies)
   Ensure continuous oversight and supervision to monitor progress and to provide early
   detection (and resolution) as issues arise




                                            83
                            DRAFT PROTECTED AREAS LAW

                        Projet de loi relative aux aires protégées
        Préambule :

         Le Maroc dispose d'un patrimoine naturel riche en espèces rares, en écosystèmes
naturels et en paysages de valeur inestimable qu'il convient de sauvegarder et de préserver.
         Conscients de l'importance de la préservation de ce patrimoine naturel national, les
pouvoirs publics se sont toujours intéressés à la création progressive de parcs nationaux.
         Cet intérêt particulier porté à la question a été renforcé depuis la ratification par le
Royaume du Maroc de la Convention sur la diversité biologique en 1996, traduisant ainsi
l'engagement de notre pays à mener une politique de développement durable, qui tend aussi
bien à sauvegarder notre diversité biologique qu'à protéger les espèces en voie de disparition et
qui trouve un appui grandissant auprès des organismes internationaux.
         Cette politique, qui vise notamment à mettre en place un réseau national des aires
protégées couvrant l'ensemble des écosystèmes naturels à travers tout le pays, se heurte,
cependant, à une législation ancienne et dont les dispositions ne répondent plus aux principes
internationaux qu'il convient d'appliquer aux aires protégées.
         Pour mieux répondre à ces principes internationaux et s'adapter à l'évolution que connaît
la protection du patrimoine naturel, aussi bien au niveau régional qu'international, il est devenu
urgent et impératif de doter le secteur d'un cadre juridique qui prend en considération ces
évolutions et qui peut s'adapter aux évolutions futures, en harmonie avec les conventions et les
accords régionaux et internationaux auxquels le Maroc a souscrits.
         C'est la raison pour laquelle la nouvelle législation préconisée englobe non seulement les
parcs nationaux, mais également les autres catégories d'aires protégées, reconnues
mondialement, en adaptant les critères qui lui sont applicables aux conditions spécifiques de
notre pays.
         Cette refonte du cadre juridique existant tend à associer au processus de création et de
gestion des aires protégées, les administrations, les collectivités locales et les populations
concernées, de manière à les impliquer dans le développement durable de ces aires.
         Aux fins de préserver la biodiversité et le patrimoine naturel, il peut être procédé, dans
les conditions fixées par la présente loi et les textes pris pour son application, à la création d'aires
protégées qui ont pour vocation la conservation, la recherche scientifique, la mise en valeur et la
réhabilitation du patrimoine naturel et culturel, l'éducation et la récréation des citoyens, la
promotion de l'écotourisme et la contribution au développement économique et social durable.
         Pour ce faire, la création d'une aire protégée doit poursuivre des objectifs spécifiques,
préalablement définis, correspondant à la protection des écosystèmes naturels, à la sauvegarde
d'espèces de la faune ou de la flore ou à la conservation de sites qui représentent un intérêt
particulier du point de vue scientifique, culturel, éducatif ou récréatif, ou qui renferment des
paysages naturels de grande valeur esthétique.

                                           Chapitre I :
                                      Dispositions générales

           Article Premier :      Au sens de la présente loi, on entend par aire protégée tout
espace terrestre et/ou marin, géographiquement délimité et spécialement aménagé et géré aux
fins d'assurer la protection, le maintien et l'amélioration de la diversité biologique, la conservation
du patrimoine naturel et culturel, sa mise en valeur pour un développement durable, ainsi que la
prévention de sa dégradation.

                                        Chapitre II :
                  Du classement et des caractéristiques des aires protégées




                                                  84
        Article 2 : Une aire protégée est classée par l'administration, en fonction de ses
caractéristiques, de sa vocation et de son envergure socio-économique, dans l'une des
catégories suivantes :
    - parc national ;
    - parc naturel ;
    - réserve biologique ;
    - réserve naturelle ;
    - site naturel.

        Article 3 : Une aire protégée peut être subdivisée en zones continues ou discontinues
relevant de régimes de protection différents, compte tenu des objectifs d'aménagement, des
contraintes découlant de l'état des lieux et des sujétions justifiées par les besoins des populations
qui y sont installées.
           A l'extérieur de ladite aire protégée, une zone périphérique peut également être prévue
pour constituer une ceinture de protection contre les nuisances externes.

        Article 4 : Le parc national est une zone naturelle, terrestre et/ou marine, ayant pour
vocation de protéger la diversité biologique, les valeurs paysagères et culturelles et/ou les
formations géologiques présentant un intérêt spécial et d'offrir au public des possibilités de visite,
à des fins culturelles, scientifiques, éducatives, récréatives et touristiques, dans le respect du
milieu naturel et des traditions des populations locales.

        Article 5: Le parc naturel est une zone terrestre et/ou marine, renfermant un patrimoine
naturel représentant un intérêt particulier qu'il convient de protéger et de valoriser, tout en
assurant le maintien des fonctions écologiques et l'utilisation durable de leurs ressources
naturelles.

        Article 6: La réserve biologique est un espace terrestre et/ou marin situé exclusivement
sur un domaine de l'Etat, renfermant des milieux naturels rares ou fragiles, d'intérêt scientifique
et éducatif, ayant pour vocation le maintien d'espèces ou de groupes d'espèces naturelles,
végétales ou animales, ainsi que de leur habitat, en vue de leur conservation et leur préservation.

        Article 7 : La réserve naturelle est un espace naturel, terrestre et/ou marin, constitué à
des fins de conservation et de maintien du bon état de la faune sédentaire ou migratrice, de la
flore, du sol, des eaux, des fossiles et des formations géologiques et géomorphologiques
présentant un intérêt particulier qu'il convient de préserver ou de reconstituer.
         Article 8 : Le site naturel est un espace contenant un ou plusieurs éléments naturels ou
naturels et culturels particuliers, d'importance exceptionnelle ou unique, méritant d'être protégés
du fait de leur rareté, de leur représentativité, de leurs qualités esthétiques ou de leur importance
paysagère, historique, scientifique, culturelle ou légendaire, dont la conservation ou la
préservation revêt un intérêt général.

                                         Chapitre III :
                      De la création des aires protégées et de ses effets

                                Section I : Procédure de création

         Article 9 : Le projet de création d'une aire protégée est établi à l'initiative de
l'administration ou à la demande des collectivités locales concernées.
         Il est soumis à l'avis de la ou des administrations et des collectivités locales concernées.
         La ou les administrations et collectivités locales concernées peuvent formuler des avis et
propositions sur ledit projet dans le délai de trois mois à compter de la date à laquelle elles ont
été saisies.
         A défaut de faire connaître leurs avis dans ce délai, lesdites administrations et
collectivités locales sont censées ne pas avoir d'avis ou de propositions à émettre.



                                                 85
        Article 10 : Le projet de création d'une aire protégée donne lieu à une enquête publique
de trois mois, qui se déroule concomitamment à l'examen dudit projet par la ou les
administrations et collectivités locales concernées.
        Cette enquête a pour objet de permettre au public de prendre connaissance du projet de
création de l'aire protégée et de formuler d'éventuels avis et observations qui sont consignés sur
un registre ouvert par l'administration à cet effet.

        Article 11 : L'acte ordonnant l'enquête publique et déterminant la zone géographique à
laquelle elle est applicable est édicté par l'administration, agissant de sa propre initiative ou à la
demande des collectivités locales concernées.
        L'acte ordonnant l'enquête publique fixe notamment la date d'ouverture de l'enquête et
les modalités de son déroulement.
        Il est publié au bulletin officiel et porté à la connaissance des populations concernées par
ses effets par tout autre moyen de publicité approprié.

         Article 12: Le dossier du projet          de création de l'aire protégée, transmis aux
administrations et collectivités locales concernées et porté à la connaissance du public, doit au
moins comprendre les éléments suivants :
         une notice de présentation du projet ;
         un document graphique indiquant les terrains à englober, les zones de protection
prévues et leur affectation, la zone périphérique, s'il y a lieu, ainsi que les limites de l'aire
protégée;
         les principales orientations de protection, de mise en valeur et de développement durable
des ressources de l'aire protégée ;
         un projet de règlement fixant les règles d'utilisation des espaces de l'aire protégée.
         Article 13 : A compter de la date de publication de l'acte ordonnant l'enquête publique
visée à l'article 10 ci-dessus et pendant toute la durée de celle-ci, sont interdits, sauf autorisation
préalable de l'administration compétente, tous actes susceptibles de modifier la nature des
terrains englobés dans l'aire protégée projetée ou qui ne sont pas conformes aux prescriptions
du projet de création précité.
         Toutefois, cette interdiction cesse de plein droit à l'expiration du délai de deux ans qui
suit l'ouverture de l'enquête précitée, si la création de l'aire protégée n'est pas intervenue selon la
forme prévue à l'alinéa 2 de l'article 14 ci-après.

        Article 14 : L'administration en charge du projet de création de l'aire protégée étudie, au
plus tard trois mois après la fin de l'enquête publique précitée, les observations et propositions
formulées au cours de l'enquête.
        Lorsque la création de l'aire protégée est confirmée au terme de cette procédure,
l'administration compétente établit les tracés définitifs de ladite aire protégée et engage la
procédure d'adoption du décret de sa création.

                                 Section II - Effets de la création

         Article 15 : Les droits réels de propriété des terrains compris dans les aires protégées
doivent être exercés sans que l'état et l'aspect extérieur de ces terrains, tels qu'ils existaient au
moment de la création de l'aire protégée, puissent être modifiés.
         L'Etat peut acquérir, par voie d'expropriation, les terrains situés dans les aires protégées
qu'il juge nécessaire d'incorporer au domaine de l'Etat conformément à la législation en vigueur.

         Article 16 : Les droits des particuliers qui n'auront pas fait l'objet d'acquisition au profit
de l'aire protégée continuent de s'exercer dans les limites des restrictions qui leur sont apportées
par les dispositions de la présente loi et des textes pris pour son application.
         Lorsqu'il résulte de ces restrictions une dévalorisation de l'immeuble dans une proportion
supérieure au tiers ou une perte substantielle de revenus, les titulaires de ces droits peuvent
requérir une indemnisation équivalente ou l'expropriation pour cause d'utilité publique.


                                                  86
         La requête doit être présentée par l'ensemble des co-titulaires des droits, lorsqu'il s'agit
d'un immeuble ou de droits constitués en indivision.
         L'indemnisation convenue ou l'expropriation réalisée dans l'intérêt de l'aire protégée met
fin à toute autre revendication afférente au même immeuble.

        Article 17 : Sous réserve des droits d'usage reconnus expressément par la législation en
vigueur aux populations locales concernées, les activités menées dans une aire protégée,
notamment agricoles, pastorales et forestières, sont réglementées en fonction des impératifs de
conservation du patrimoine naturel et culturel de l'aire protégée et conformément aux mesures de
protection édictées par le plan d'aménagement et de gestion prévu à l'article 19 ci-dessous.
            Les droits d'usage sont entendus dans la présente loi comme étant des prélèvements
à but non commercial pour les besoins domestiques, vitaux et/ou coutumiers, réservés à la
population locale.
            Ils sont incessibles et s'exercent dans le cadre d'une convention conclue entre
l'administration et les populations locales concernées ou leurs représentants et qui prévoit,
notamment, l'objet et la consistance desdits droits, les populations qui en bénéficieront, les zones
dans lesquelles ces droits s'exerceront et les conditions et les modalités de leur exercice.

         Article 18 : Sous réserve des dispositions de l'article 17 ci-dessus, sont interdites ou font
l'objet de restrictions, dans toute l'étendue de l'aire protégée, sauf autorisation préalable de
l'administration compétente, toutes actions susceptibles de nuire au milieu naturel, à la
conservation de la faune et de la flore, ou d'altérer le caractère et les éléments de l'écosystème
de l'aire protégée, dont notamment :
        la chasse et la pêche, l'abattage ou la capture de la faune, la destruction ou la collection
de la flore ;
        toute introduction d'espèces animales ou végétales, exotiques ou locales, sauvages ou
domestiquées ;
        l'exécution de travaux publics et privés de toute nature, y compris l'installation de
réseaux d'électrification ou de télécommunication ;
        l'extraction des matériaux concessibles ou non ;
        toute fouille ou prospection, tout sondage, terrassement ou construction ;
        l'utilisation des eaux ;
        tous travaux tendant à modifier l'aspect du terrain, du paysage ou de la végétation.

        Sous réserve du respect des prescriptions exigées pour des raisons de défense nationale
et de sûreté publique, la circulation, le camping et le survol à une altitude inférieure à 1000
mètres ne peuvent se faire dans ou au-dessus de l'aire protégée qu'avec la permission de
l'administration compétente et dans le cadre des activités de gestion ou de recherche scientifique
autorisées.

                                        Chapitre IV:
                    De l'aménagement et de la gestion des aires protégées

                         Section I- Plan d'aménagement et de gestion

        Article 19: L'aire protégée est dotée d'un plan d'aménagement et de gestion, dont le
projet est établi à l'initiative de l'administration compétente, en concertation avec les populations
concernées.

         Article 20: Le plan d'aménagement et de gestion décrit, de manière détaillée, les
éléments constitutifs de l'aire protégée, physiques et biologiques, son environnement socio-
économique, les objectifs de protection immédiats et à terme, la stratégie et les programmes
d'aménagement et de gestion, ainsi que les indicateurs d'impact et l'estimation des besoins
financiers sur une base quinquennale.
        Il fixe également les mesures spécifiques et les restrictions propres à assurer la
conservation de l'aire protégée, ainsi que les zones dans lesquelles sont admises les activités


                                                 87
agricoles et pastorales ou d'autres activités autorisées par l'administration et n'entraînant pas
d'impact néfaste sur l'aire protégée.

       Article 21 : La durée de validité du plan d'aménagement et de gestion de l'aire protégée,
qui ne peut excéder dix ans, ainsi que la forme et les modalités de son approbation et de sa
révision sont fixées par voie réglementaire.

      Article 22 : Préalablement à son approbation par l'administration, le projet de plan
d'aménagement et de gestion de l'aire protégée est soumis à l'avis des collectivités locales et
des administrations concernées.
        Lesdites collectivités locales et administrations peuvent formuler, dans un délai de trois
mois à compter de la date à laquelle elles ont été saisies, des avis ou des propositions qui sont
étudié(e)s par l'administration compétente.
        A défaut de faire connaître leurs avis dans ce délai, lesdites collectivités locales et
administrations sont censées ne pas avoir de propositions à émettre.

      Article 23 : Les collectivités locales et les établissements publics concernés prennent, en
concertation avec l'administration compétente, toutes les mesures nécessaires pour la mise en
oeuvre et le respect des dispositions du plan d'aménagement et de gestion de l'aire protégée
concernée.


                                        Section II -Gestion

        Article 24 : La gestion de l'aire protégée est assurée par l'administration compétente, en
collaboration avec les collectivités locales et les populations concernées.
      Les fonctions de gestion recouvrent notamment :
           -la préparation du projet de plan d'aménagement et de gestion de l'aire protégée et de
sa révision;
           -l'aménagement de l'aire protégée selon les prescriptions du plan visé à l'article 19 ci-
dessus, la mise en place d'infrastructures adéquates et la mise en oeuvre et le suivi des
programmes de gestion;
           -la conclusion de conventions pour l'exercice des droits d'usage reconnus aux
populations locales concernées ou de conventions pour la mise en oeuvre et le suivi des
programmes de gestion ;
           -l'exercice de la surveillance et du contrôle de l'aire protégée tendant à prévenir, à
contrôler et à interdire certaines activités humaines de nature à perturber le milieu naturel.

        Article 25: La gestion de l'aire protégée peut, sous réserve des droits reconnus aux tiers,
être assurée, totalement ou partiellement, par une personne morale de droit public ou privé, qui
s'engage à respecter les conditions générales de gestion prévues par la présente loi et les
clauses d'une convention et d'un cahier des charges établi par l'administration.

         Article 26 : La gestion déléguée de l'aire protégée est attribuée après appel à la
concurrence faisant l'objet d'un règlement qui prévoit, notamment, les critères d'éligibilité, les
modalités de sélection, ainsi que les qualifications professionnelles et techniques requises pour
son attribution.
    Toutefois, il peut être fait recours à une procédure de négociation directe lorsqu'il y a urgence
à assurer la continuité du service public.

        Article 27 : La convention de gestion déléguée prévoit, notamment :
          - l'objet de la gestion déléguée et la délimitation des zones d'intervention qu'elle
couvre ;
          - la consistance des biens concédés et, le cas échéant les règles régissant les biens
de retour et les biens de reprise ;




                                                 88
          - la durée qui ne peut excéder trente ans prorogeable pour une durée supplémentaire
qui ne peut excéder dix ans;
          - les conditions et les modalités de révision, de renouvellement ou de prorogation de la
convention ;
          - les dispositions financières et les normes et conditions de gestion de l'aire protégée ;
          - le cas échéant, les dispositions relatives au respect des prescriptions exigées pour
des raisons de défense nationale et de sûreté publique ;
          - s'il y a lieu, les conditions de rachat, de résiliation et de déchéance.
          - le règlement des différends.

         Article 28 : Le cahier des charges visé à l'article 25 ci-dessus prévoit, notamment :
           - l'objet et la consistance de la gestion déléguée, ainsi que la délimitation de l'espace
qu'elle couvre ;
           - les normes et conditions de gestion et d'utilisation des infrastructures et des biens
concédés, ainsi que les conditions et les modalités de leur entretien et adaptation ;
           - les redevances de la gestion déléguée, leur mode de calcul et les modalités de leur
paiement ;
           - les charges et obligations particulières qui incombent à l'administration et au
bénéficiaire de la gestion déléguée ;
           - les modalités de rémunération des services rendues par le bénéficiaire de la gestion
déléguée ;
           - le rappel du principe du respect de l'égalité de traitement des usagers, le cas
échéant ;
           - la ou les polices d'assurance que le bénéficiaire de la gestion déléguée doit
contracter pour couvrir sa responsabilité pour les dommages causés aux tiers ;
           - les garanties financières exigées du bénéficiaire de la délégation ;
           - les mesures coercitives encourues par le bénéficiaire de la gestion déléguée en cas
de l'inobservation des clauses du cahier des charges ;
           - la situation du personnel existant, le cas échéant ;
           - les droits que se réserve l'Administration de l'aire protégée.

                                          Chapitre V :
                                    Infractions et sanctions

                                      Section I- Sanctions

       Article 29 : Quiconque refuse d'obtempérer aux ordres des agents visés à l'article 36 ci-
dessous ou les empêche, de quelque manière que ce soit, d'exercer leurs fonctions est puni
d'une amende de 600 à 1.200 dirhams.

       Article 30 : Est puni d'une amende de 30 à 1.200 dirhams, sauf droits expressément
reconnus aux populations locales, quiconque :
         - circule ou stationne dans les zones dont l'accès est interdit au public ;
         - abandonne objets ou détritus, solides ou liquides à l'intérieur d'une aire protégée ;
         - contrevient aux interdictions de cueillette ou de ramassage ;
         - laisse divaguer des animaux domestiques en dehors des lieux autorisés.

       Article 31 : Sans préjudice des peines plus sévères, est puni d'une amende de 2000 à
10.000 dirhams, sauf droits expressément reconnus aux populations locales, quiconque :
          - introduit des espèces animales ou végétales dont la présence est interdite ou
réglementée, en violation des prescriptions de la présente loi ;
          - occasionne volontairement un dommage de quelque nature qu'il soit à la flore, à la
faune de l'aire protégée ou aux éléments naturels de son écosystème.




                                                89
        Article 32 : Est puni d'une amende de 1.200 à 10.000 dirhams et d'un d'emprisonnement
de quinze jours à trois mois ou de l'une de ces deux peines seulement, sauf droits expressément
reconnus aux populations locales, quiconque :
          - procède à des cultures ou à des plantations dans les lieux où ces activités ne sont
pas autorisées ;
          - procède à des cultures ou à des plantations dans les zones où elles sont soumises à
des restrictions ou à des réglementations spéciales, sans respecter lesdites restrictions ou
réglementations ;
          - entreprend ou fait entreprendre des constructions, fouilles ou travaux de quelque
nature que ce soit dans les zones où ces activités sont interdites ;
          - effectue les mêmes activités dans les zones où elles sont soumises à des restrictions
ou à des réglementations spéciales, sans respecter lesdites restrictions ou réglementations ;
          - contrevient aux dispositions relatives à l'abattage et à la capture des animaux
sauvages.

          Article 33 : Sans préjudice des peines plus sévères, est puni d'un emprisonnement de
trois mois à un an et d'une amende de 2.000 à 10.000 dirhams ou de l'une de ces deux peines
seulement, quiconque pollue par des produits toxiques ou dangereux la faune, la flore, le sol ou
les ressources en eau.

        Article 34 : Les sanctions prévues par les textes en vigueur en matière de chasse, de
pêche dans les eaux continentales, de forêt, de police de l'eau et d'urbanisme sont doublées
lorsque les infractions qu'elles sanctionnent sont commises à l'intérieur d'une aire protégée.

        Article 35 : Indépendamment des sanctions prévues par les articles ci-dessus, la
décision de condamnation peut prévoir la remise en état des lieux aux frais du condamné.
    En cas de condamnation pour infraction aux dispositions de la présente loi, le jugement peut
ordonner le versement de dommages intérêts en réparation du préjudice causé.

                             Section II- Constatation des infractions

        Article 36 : Sont chargés de constater les infractions aux dispositions de la présente loi
et des textes pris pour son application, outre les officiers de police judiciaire, les agents de
l'administration habilités spécialement à cet effet.
        Ils doivent être assermentés et porteurs d'une carte professionnelle délivrée par
l'administration selon les modalités fixées par voie réglementaire.
        Les fonctionnaires visés au présent article sont astreints au secret professionnel sous
peine des sanctions prévues à l'article 446 du code pénal.

         Article 37 : A l'occasion de l'exercice de leurs fonctions, les agents visés à l'article 36 ci-
dessus dressent des procès-verbaux qui énoncent la nature, la date et le lieu des constatations
ou des contrôles effectués. Ils sont signés par le(s) agents (s) et par la ou les personne(s)
concernée(s) par les infractions.
         En cas de refus de celle(s)-ci de signer, mention en est faite au procès-verbal. Un double
est laissé aux parties intéressées.
         Les procès-verbaux sont dispensés des formalités et droits de timbres et
d'enregistrement. Ils sont rédigés sur-le-champ.
         Dans le cas où le contrevenant n'a pu être identifié, les procès-verbaux sont dressés
contre inconnu.
         Ces procès-verbaux font foi jusqu'à preuve du contraire et sont mis à la disposition de
l'administration.
         Celle-ci peut, selon le cas, mettre en demeure, par écrit, le (s) contrevenant (s) de se
conformer aux dispositions de la présente loi et des textes pris pour son application.
         Les procès-verbaux sont communiqués dans un délai de 15 jours, courant à compter de
la date de leur établissement, au procureur du Roi près la juridiction compétente.




                                                  90
         Article 38 : En cas d'infraction flagrante, les agents visés à l'article 36         ci-dessus
sont habilités à faire cesser l'activité délictueuse en cours et à ordonner        au (x) contrevenant
(s) de quitter les lieux immédiatement.
         Ils peuvent saisir les objets, instruments ou véhicules utilisés pour commettre l'infraction
ou ayant un lien quelconque avec elle.
         Ils peuvent conduire devant l'officier de police judiciaire le plus proche les individus qui
ont participé à sa commission, conformément aux dispositions du code de procédure pénale.



          Article 39: Pour la constatation des infractions à la présente loi, les agents visés à
l'article 36 ci-dessus peuvent demander le concours de la force publique.
          Ils peuvent recourir à tout moyen approprié d'enquête, notamment le prélèvement
d'échantillons. Ceux-ci sont placés sous scellés et un exemplaire du procès-verbal de leur dépôt
est remis au contrevenant. Mentions en sont portées sur le procès-verbal.
          Les échantillons prélevés sont acheminés à un laboratoire agréé en vue de leur examen.
Les résultats de cette analyse sont consignés dans un rapport qui est joint au procès-verbal de
constatation de l'infraction.

                                          Chapitre VI
                               Dispositions transitoires et finales

         Article 40 : Les parcs et réserves existants à la date de publication de la présente loi au
bulletin officiel seront classés dans l'une des catégories prévues par les dispositions de l'article 2
de la présente loi, selon les modalités fixées par voie réglementaire.

         Article 41 : Sont abrogées toutes dispositions contraires à la présente loi, notamment
                     er
celles du dahir du 1 Joumada I 1353 (11 septembre 1934) sur la création des parcs nationaux.
         Toutefois, les dispositions des textes pris pour l'application dudit dahir demeurent
applicables aux parcs nationaux existants, jusqu'à leur remplacement conformément aux
dispositions de la présente loi.




                                                 91
