t CREDIT NUMBER 1270 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIOWAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBR 1270 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     UkJM,      , 1982, between the REPUBLIC
OF TOGO   (hereinafter called   the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a Der,lopment Credit Agreement (Technical
Assistance Project) dated June 22, 1979 between the Borrower and
the Association (hereinafter called the 1979 Credit Agreement)
the Association made a development credit to the Borrower in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million two
hundred thousand dollars ($2,200,000) on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the 1979 Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said Project being a continuation of the
Technical Assistance Project described in Schedule 2 to the 1979
Credit Agreement) by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C)  the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions   Applicable  to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and In the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Crcdit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000).
1M.ction 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
fror   se Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such SchedulL may be amended
from time to time by agreement between ths Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall ctherwise
earee, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by local procedures
arceptable to the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date for the Credit shall be
June 30, 1986 or such later date as the Association shall estab-
lish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably   request;  (ii) without


﻿-3-
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligi:le currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be
payablc semiannuzl.ly on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shill repay the principal imount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jque 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1992, and ending June 15,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the ?roject
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative, accounting, rural      development and
economic planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services, personnel and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ the following
consultants   and   experts   whose   selection,   q.alifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the principles
and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
ExKecuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981:
(i) a Senior Economic Adviser and an Investment
ProE;rammer who will be directly responsible to the
Minister of Planning of the Borrower to assist the
Borrower in carrying out Part A of the Project;


﻿I4
(ii) art agricultural planning expert and a research
coordinator who will be directly responsible to
the Director of Rural Development of the Borrower
to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of
the Project;
(iii) consultants   and  experts  who will    be  directly
responsible to the Minister of Industry and State
Enterprises of the Borrower to assist the Borrower
in carrying out Part C of the Project; and
(iv) short-term consultants, to assist the Bortower in
carrying out Part D of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the consultants and
experts referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) through (iv) of this
Section c-ordinate their activities with the Seni. Economic
Adviser referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of said Section.
(c) The Borrower shall employ staff whose qualifications
shall be acceptable to the Association on a full-time basis to
work as counterpart to and closely with each of the indivielils
referred to in paragraph (a) (i) through (iii) of this Section,
(d) Without limitation to the obligations set forth in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that
secretarial  and   other  support  staff, office   equipment   and
supplies are made available, as and when needed, to the
consultants, experts and counterpart staff referred to in this
Section.
Section 3.03. For purposes of Part D of the Project the
Borrower shall: (a) select specific studies in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Association; and (b) submit to the
Association for its prior approval its proposals for each study
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1983 establish the rural planning unit and the agricultural
research coordination unit under Part B of the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall ovherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all reasonable mea-
sures to facilitate the work of the consultants and experts
employed under the Project and make available to them all
information relevant to performance of their services.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause consultants
employed for the carrying out of the Project to furnish the Asso-
ciation with copies of the studies and reports prepared by them
fcr the purposes of the Project, including drafts thereof, as and
when the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implemen-
tation of the recommendations and other conclusions included
in the studies and reports referred to in the foregoing para-
graph (a).
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to show the use of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it); (ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect any
records and documents relevant to the progress of the Project,
including records and documents which the consultants employed by
the Borrower shall be required to keep for the purposes of the
progress of the Project; and (iii) furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure o:! the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the progress of the Project.
(b) Upon award by the Borrower of any contract for services
to be finanzed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association
may publi,h a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and


﻿-6-
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations,  resources   and  expenditures,  in  respect   of  the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to ' maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis Xr
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall b,Ave reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for wbich they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably requesl.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date            \         is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre de 1' Economie et des Finances is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1' Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lomf
Republic of Togo
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIE                              5286
Lom6, Togo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHE?EOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
A 0     Regional Vice President
Western Afi:a


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Technical                 2,600,000         100%
assistance and
fellowships
(2) Equipment                    71,000         100%
(including
vehicles),
supplies,
and local
travel and
subsistence
costs for
resident
experts and
counterparts
staff
(3) Salary supple-               29,000        100%
ments for
counterpart and
support staff
to consultants
and experts
employed under
the Project
(4) Unallocated                 400,000
TOTAL               3,100,000


﻿- 10
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "salary supple-
ments" means amounts received by counterpart and support staff
to consultants and experts employed under the Project over and
above the amount normally zeceived by said staff.
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have  been   calculated  in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithntanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set fo,th      in  the  table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue tintil all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any items ii any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association undei the Development CredY.t Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cincei such amount of the Credit as, in the


﻿- 11 -
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCEULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in:
(i) improving its public finance, economic planning and project
preparation and implementation capabilities; and (ii) developing
its capacity to conceive and implement sound, comprehensive and
consistent economic and financial policies and to pursue
adjustment policies in, inter alia, rural development, state
enterprises and public investment programming.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(i) Improvement of the Borrower's administration in the
field of economics and public finance.
(ii) Preparation of major new investments and strengthening
of the economic and financial viability of major
existing inveatments.
(iii) Training of counterpart staff.
Part B:
(i) Establishment and initial operation of a planning unit
withirt the Ministry of Rural Development of the
Borrower to assist in: (a) the preparation of a long-
term rural develcpment strategy; (b) the preparation of
projects in the rural sector; (c) the study of
difficulties encountered in the rural sector and deter-
mining said sector's medium-term prospects; and (d) the
monitoring and evaluation of rural development pro-
jects. Fellowships for counterpart staff for the plan-
ning unit.
(ii) Establishment and    initial  operation  of a   research
coordination unit within the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment of the Borrower with responsibility for (a) co-
ordinating the research activities carried out in the
Borrower's territory under the sponsorship of various
development organizations, and (b) taking steps to
promote relations with development organizations other


﻿- 13 -
than those already actively involved in the Borrower's
research activities.
Part C:
Formulation and implementation of a policy for state enter-
prises, through, inter alia, the preparation and introduction of
performance criteria, the introduction of analytical accounting
and the carrying out of analytical studies.
Part D:
Specific studies in the areas of macroeconomic planning and
project analysis.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
198 .Z
FOR SECRETARY


