Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 20241
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SAC I (CREDIT 28170)
SAC II (CREDIT 21726, N0300)
SAC III (CREDIT 32000; Q0930)
March 31, 2000
AFC07
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit =CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is pegged to the French Franc at the rate of FF I =100 CFAF
Year          US$ 1.00 = CFAF (average)
1995                    499
1996                    512
1997                    580
1998                    589
1999                    607
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDT:                 Banque de Developpement du Tchad (Development Bank)
BMBT:                Banque Meridien BIAO du Tchad (Commercial Bank)
BTCD:                Banque Tchadienne de Credit et des Dep6ts (Commercial Bank)
CAS:                 Country Assistance Strategy
CNPS:                Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (Social Security Agency)
CNRT:                Caisse Nationale de Retraite du Tchad (Social Security Agency)
COBAC:               Commission Bancaire de l'Afrique Centrale (Bank Supervision Agency)
COTONTCHAD:          Societe Cotoniere du Tchad (Cotton Company)
CSFC:                Comit6 de Suivi de la Filiere Coton (Cotton Sector Monitoring Agency)
ERC:                 Economic Recovery Credit
ICR:                 lImplementation Completion Report
IDA:                 International Development Association
INT:                 Imprimerie Nationale du Tchad (Printing Agency)
IMF:                 International Monetary Fund
OHADA:               Organisation de l'harmonisation en Afrique du droit des affaires (Regional
Organization for Business Law Harmonization)
ONHPV:               Office National de l'Hydraulique Pastorale et Villageoise (Rural Water Agency)
ONPT:                Office National des Postes et des Telecommunications (Post/Telecommunications
Agency)
SNER:                Societe Nationale de l'Entretien Routier (Road Maintenance Agency)
SOGEC:               Soci6te Generale d'Eploitation des Carrieres (Quarry Exploitation Company)
SONAPA:              Societe Nationale de Produits Animaux (Livestock Products Company)
SONASUT:             Societe Nationale Sucriere du Tchad (Sugar Company)
SOTELTCHAD:          Societe de Telecommunication du Tchad (Telecommunications Company)
SPTE:                Societ6 des Postes et T6lecommunications (Post and Telecommunicationi Services)
STEE:                Societe Tchadienne d'Eau et d'electricite (Utilities Services)
TIT:                 Telecommunications Internationales du Tchad (International Communications)
UDEAC:               Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale (Central African Economic
and Customs Union)
Vice President:                                  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:                         Serge Michailof
Sector Manager/Director:                         Chukwuma Obidegwu (Acting)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                    Eugen Scanteie



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- CONTENTS*
Page No
I. Project data                                                         1
II. Principal Performance Ratings                                        4
III. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at  5
Entry
IV. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs                               10
V. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                   18
VI. Sustainability                                                      19
VII. Bank and Borrower Performance                                       19
VIII. Lessons Learned                                                     21
IX. Partner Comments                                                    22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                27
Annex 3. Bank Inputs                                                28
Annex 4. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components  29
Annex 5. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                   30
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results                                 31
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Results                               32
Annex 8: List of Supporting Documents                               34
The 1996 CAS proposed three single-tranche adjustment operations in support of Chad's reform
program. The ex-post evaluation was done jointly for the three credits.






I. Project Data
SAC I
Name:                SAC I                           L/C Number:   28170
Country/Department:  CHAD                            Region:        Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector:    ME - Economic Management
KEY DATES
Original         Revised/Actual
PCD:        04/23/95               Effective:          02/22/96         02/22/96
Appraisal:  12/24/95               MTR.
Approval:   02/15/96               Closing:            06/30/97         06/30/97
Borrowerllmplementing Agency.      GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
Other Partners.
STAFF                Current                           At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                 Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Serge Michailof                   Andrew Rogerson
Sector Manager:      Chukwuma Obidegwu (Acting)        Jerome Chevallier
Team Leader at ICR.   Eugen Scanteie                   Amadou Cisse/Emmanuel Akpa
ICR Primary Author:  Jerome Chevallier
1



SAC II
Name:               SAC II                        L/C Number:      21726;N0300
Country/Department:  CHAD                        Region:           Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector:   ME - Economic Management
KEY DATES
Original        Revised/Actual
PCD.        11/20/96              Effective:          08/14/97         08/14/97
Appraisal:  05/30/97              MTR:
Approval:   06/30/97              Closing:            12/31/98         12/31/98
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:    GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                         At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:       Serge Michailof                David Berk
Sector Manager:        Chukwuma Obidegwu (Acting)    Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR.    Eugen Scanteie                 Alain D'Hoore
ICR Primary Author:    Jerome Chevallier
2



SAC III
Name:               SAC III                           L/C Number:      32000; Q0930
Country/Department:  CHAD                             Region:          Africa   Regional
Office
Sector/subsector:   ME - Economic Management
KEY DATES
Original        Revised/Actual
PCD.        11/23/98              Effective:          06/21/99         06/21/99
Appraisal.  03/20/99              MTR:
Approval:   05/04/99              Closing:            03/31/2000       03/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:    GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                         At Appraisal
Vice President.       Jean-Louis Sarbib              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:       Serge Michailof                Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:        Chukwuma Obidegwu (Acting)    Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:    Eugen Scanteie                 Alain D'Hoore
ICR Primary Author:    Jerome Chevallier
3



II. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfact6ry, U=Unsatisfactory. HL=Highly Likely. L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:                                     S
Sustainability.                              L
Institutional Development Impact:            SU
Bank Performance:                            S
Borrower Performance:                        S
QAG (if available)            ICR
Quality at Entry.                   S                               S
Project at Risk at Any Time                  NO
4



III. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at
Entry
Original Objectives:
1. The reform program supported by the first, second and third SAC aimed at (i) restoring
critical public sector capacity and improving government finances; (ii) increasing the poverty
alleviation impact of public expenditures; and (iii) creating a favorable environment for
private sector growth.
2. In February 1996, the Board discussed the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Chad, and
approved the first operation in a series of one-tranche adjustment credits. The CAS indicated
that Chad had a troubled political history, based in a large part on long-standing differences
between the north and the south of the country, which erupted into a civil war in the late
1970s-early 1980s. The country, one of the poorest in the world, began to move towards
more stable governance following President Deby's accession to power in 1990. The fiscal
situation remained highly precarious, however, as public revenues were not sufficient to
cover the government wage bill in the early 1 990s. Arrears accumulated and repeated strikes
crippled the delivery of public services.
3. The 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc restored Chad's competitiveness, and gave a boost to
its exports (mainly cotton, livestock and gum Arabic). Higher exports and good climatic
conditions helped Chad achieve a 10 percent growth in real terms in 1994. Following the
devaluation, the Government prepared a reform program, which was supported by an IMF
Stand-by arrangement and an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) from IDA. By June 1994,
the program was off-track, however, as the authorities proved unable to achieve their revenue
mobilization targets. To turn the situation around, the authorities canceled the Stand-by
arrangement and replaced it with a staff-monitored program. An ongoing IDA-financed TA
project was restructured to support a major capacity-building effort in revenue-mobilization
agencies, particularly the customs. The revised program was highly successful, and in July
1995, the IMF approved a three-year ESAF arrangement. The Bank initiated preparation of a
SAC and a new CAS.
4. The objectives of the CAS were to restore critical public sector capacity, to focus public
expenditures on poverty reduction, create an environment favorable to private sector
development, and protect the environment.  The CAS indicated that Chad's main
development constraint was its low level of public services, making it difficult for the
country to catch up with the rest of the world on social indicators and alleviate poverty,
unless it received an adequate amount of external assistance to finance recurrent
expenditures. The CAS proposed a new approach, whereby the donor community would
finance a public expenditure program instead of a collection of projects. The annual amount
of such assistance would take into account the quality of economic management and efforts
made by the Government in the delivery of basic services to the population. In anticipation
of this new approach, the CAS proposed a series of single-tranche adjustment operations tied
to the budgetary cycle, to support implementation of the first three objectives above. The
first SAC was approved in February 1996, and a new TA project was approved shortly
thereafter to help Chad implement its reform program. The second SAC was approved in
June 1997 and the third one in May 1999.
5



5. The 1996 CAS provided performance indicators for each of the three objectives of the reform
program as shown in the table below. Performance indicators were relevant, though too
much focused on inputs and outputs, not enough on outcomes and impact. In retrospect,
some of them proved too ambitious. This was the case for instance with the expectation that
the privatization of all public enterprises would be completed in 1998. When the first SAC
was approved, the Government had made good progress with its divestiture program, starting
with small enterprises and moving on to the larger ones. It had already liquidated 11
enterprises, privatized five others, and brought to the point of sale another four, out of a total
of about 40 state enterprises (including mixed public-private entities and autonomous,
commercially-oriented agencies) in 1990. Taking account of the momentum gained in the
government divestiture program, it was not unreasonable to expect that even the 5 largest
enterprises would be divested by end 1998. This proved over optimistic, however, as a
consensus had not yet been reached on the privatization of these large enterprises
Table 1
CAS objective       1994                           1998 Target
Restore critical public  Revenue to GDP: 7.4%      Revenue to GDP: 11.5% Regular payment of civil
sector capacity                                    servants' salaries
Focus        public  Share of priority sectors in total Share of priority sectors:
expenditures    on  expenditures: 48%              62%
poverty reduction   (of which health: 12%: education  (of which health 18%; education 38%)
32%)                          Primary school enrollment rate: 55% (girls38%)
Primary school enrollment rate:
46% (girls: 32%)
Create  environment Ratio of private investment to  Ratio of private investment to GDP: 4.5%
favorable for private  GDP: 1.1%
sector development                                 Privatization   of  public  enterprises  and
restructuring of financial sector.
Adopt business-friendly legislation
6. The indicators concerning revenue mobilization and private investment were also ambitious.
Increasing the share of revenues to GDP by four percentage points of GDP in 4 years was
indeed an ambitious undertaking, even if it looked within reach on the basis of the strong
progress made in 1995 (a 1.5 percentage point increase). The fast increase in private
investment, which was projected in the 1996 CAS, was justified by the expectation that oil
companies would start developing the Doba oil fields in the south of Chad. A major problem
with both indicators, however, is that national accounts have been revised twice during the
period under review, the first time in late 1996 and the second time in 1999, making it
difficult to monitor time series.
7. Design. The 1996 CAS opted for a series of annual single-tranche credits to support Chad's
reform program. Approval of the first one was based on progress already made and a clear
commitment on a set of measures for the future. Subsequent adjustment operations were to
be justified by performance in implementing agreed upon measures. When the first SAC was
approved in February 1996, presidential and legislative elections were expected to take place
a few months later. Taking account of the highly uncertain environment, both internal and
external, and the short track record of reform implementation, the design of the support
program sought to introduce an element of predictability, so as to reinforce the hand of
reformers. The design was appropriate given circumstances, and helped Chad implement
6



important reforms. Some delays were incurred, however, and the third operation was
approved more than three years after the first one, instead of two years, as envisaged initially.
8. Components. The program supported by the three SACs included nine components under the
three objective mentioned above. There were two components under the first objective: civil
service reform and rehabilitation of public finances; three components under the second
objective: demobilization, improved expenditure management, and increased budgetary
allocations to priority sectors; and four components under the third objective: improving the
judicial and regulatory environment, restructuring the financial system, state enterprise
divestiture, and cotton sector reform.
OBJECTIVES                                       COMPONENTS
Restoring critical public Sector Capacity and improving Civil Service reform
government finances                              Rehabilitation of public financed
Increasing Development and Poverty Alleviating Impact of Demobilization
Public Expenditures                              Public expenditure management
Improved resource allocation to social sectors
Creating  Favorable  Environment for Private  Sector Improved judicial and regulatory environment
Development                                      Restructuring of the financial system
State enterprise divestiture
Cotton sector reform
9. Civil service reform. The three SACs sought to rehabilitate government administration
around a civil service of modest size with a clear focus on core public sector functions, and in
which recruitment, career progress, training and management and incentives are efficiency-
related. A cap on the wage bill was to be maintained, a census was to be completed, new
organizational charts were to be prepared, and automatic wage increases were to be abolished
and replaced with performance-based increases.
10. Rehabilitation of public finances. The low level of public revenues was a major handicap
for Chad. In the early 1990s, government administration was crippled by recurrent strikes,
which in turn led to even lower revenues. The reform program sought to reduce the scope of
public sector activities to the provision of minimum essential goods and services, in close
partnership with local communities, and to reinforce the tax administration and broaden the
tax base. A positive legacy from Chad's turbulent past was the development by local
communities of a capacity for self-reliance. The program sought to build upon this asset. A
study was to be carried out in 1996 on ways to extend community finance efficiently to some
public services still covered by the budget. In the area of revenue mobilization, the focus of
the reform program was on capacity building, improved inter-agency coordination and
elimination of loopholes, particularly in special enterprise tax regimes.
11. Demobilization. In the early 1990s the Chadian army had a total of 47,000 people, absorbing
about 30 percent of current expenditure, as compared to 22 percent for the social sectors. A
first phase of demobilization had reduced the army size to 32,000 people. Over the 1996-98
period, the Government plan was to demobilize a further 11,000 people, including 7,000
people in 1996, and progressively integrate them into active civilian life. The 1996 CAS
estimated that the cost of the initial program would increase the current budget deficit by 0.2
percent of GDP in 1996, but reduce it by 0.7 percent of GDP in 1998. A Donor's Round
Table was envisaged for mid-1996 to mobilize funding for the demobilization program. A
broad reintegration program was to be prepared. To test this program, a pilot program
7



targeted at about 3000 soldiers was submitted to IDA for financing under the second SAC.
An amount of US$3 million was earmarked for that purpose under the second credit.
12. Improved expenditure management. Annual consultations with the Bank were envisaged
prior to budget approval to improve the efficiency of public expenditure. Broad allocations
were agreed to at the outset of the reform program. The realism and efficiency of the Public
Investment Program were to be improved through continuing work on reducing the number
of projects (almost 300 in 1996) and reviewing individual projects for consistency with
sector strategies and economic and financial viability.
13. Increasing resources allocated to priority sectors. During program implementation, the
Government was expected to continue allocating increased resources to the social sectors and
infrastructure maintenance. These sectors were exempted from the general freeze on civil
service recruitment and their budgets were to be increased annually in line with a medium-
term schedule agreed with IDA.
14. Improving the judicial and regulatory environment. The judicial system was expected to be
rehabilitated, and the business laws, the investment code and the labor code were to be
amended to facilitate entry and exit of business into economic activities, and introduce
greater flexibility in factor markets.
15. Restructuring the financial system. Despite years of civil war and social disturbances, the
banking system was in a relatively good shape. One of the four commercial banks, BMBT,
was suffering from an important non-performing portfolio, however, and the development
bank was under threat of illiquidity, when the moratorium on the withdrawal of deposits,
introduced in 1992 as part of the restructuring of the bank, was set to expire in 1996. For
lack of resources, the private sector worker insurance and retirement fund, CNPS, and the
public sector retirement fund, CNRT, were not in a position to play their respective roles
deemed essential for the success of the civil service reform, the demobilization and state
divestiture programs. The reform program included introduction of private partners into
BTCD, the largest commercial bank, and BDT, the development bank, the replacement of the
private partner in BMBT and the initiation of actions towards the restructuring of CNPS and
CNRT. Also, work was to be initiated to spur the development of micro-finance. The
financial sector was expected to be fully restructured by the end of the 1996-98-reform
program.
16. State enterprise divestiture. Following a successful drive for the divestiture of public
enterprises starting in 1992, the focus of the 1996-98 reform program was on the five largest
enterprises, which accounted for the bulk of the losses of the public enterprise sector,
amounting to about 2 percent of GDP in 1992-94.  These five enterprises included
COTONTCHAD, the largest of them, in charge of cotton marketing and processing,
SONASUT, the sugar company, and the three utilities (STEE, water and electricity, ONPT,
post and telecommunications, and TIT, international telecommunications). The design of a
divestiture program for these enterprises had been initiated and it was expected that the
program would be implemented over 1996-98.
17. Cotton sector reform. Cotton is Chad's major export. In the first half of the 1990s, it
represented about 50 percent of total exports. The sector was dominated by a public
monopoly, COTONCHAD, in charge of input supply, purchase of seed cotton, ginning and
8



marketing. During 1990-93, international prices for cotton fell by 30 percent, compounding
management problems and inefficiencies in the cotton company, and resulting in the
accumulation of losses.
18. The 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc helped the company make a profit in 1993-94 and
1994-95. It also provided the breathing space needed to carry out a reform program focused
on (i) reducing cost, through decentralization of management and lower reliance on
expensive foreign expertise; and (ii) improving incentives to farmers, through
implementation of a two-step pricing mechanism, with the second part linked to actual results
of the cotton company. Under the second SAC, the monopoly of COTONTCHAD on buying
seed cotton, ginning and export was to be removed. Also, para-fiscal charges on the
purchase of farm implements were to be reduced.
19. Assessment of the components. The components of the program were designed to help
Chad achieve its reform objectives. Overall, the measures envisaged under the program were
adequate. Implementation of the reform program was demanding in view of the country's
limited capacity, but not beyond reach, as demonstrated by the remarkable turnaround
engineered by the Government in 1995. Taking account of the experience gained in 1995, a
technical assistance project was developed to help the Government carry out its program. In
retrospect, the state divestiture program should have been better defined. It is not clear from
the credit documentation what was expected for the five largest public enterprises by the end
of the reform program. The proposed cotton sector reform was modest, for lack of good
analytical work and consensus among major stakeholders
20. Quality at entry. The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The objectives of the three SACs
were fully consistent with the CAS. The basic purpose of the reform program to focus the
public sector on its core functions, and create a business environment free of arbitrariness
was fully appropriate. The design of the reform program, including the series of single-
tranche credits in support of it, was in-keeping with the circumstances prevailing in Chad in
early 1996. The capacity and commitment of the Government to carry out a demanding
reform program were untested, and it was felt that the single-tranche approach would reduce
risks.
21. In December 1999, a panel reviewed the quality at entry of the third SAC. It classified the
operation as satisfactory, but recorded a number of reservations.  The basis for the
satisfactory rating was that the program was designed to respond to a "window of
opportunity" in Chad's fast-changing political scene.  Its broad objectives were well
understood and shared by the borrower, the IMF and the Bank. It provided needed budget
support within a potentially fruitful dialogue with the authorities. The single-tranche design
was appropriate for the reasons explained above. The reservations of the panel concerned the
limited scope of cotton sector reform, the institutional pre-requisites for utility reform, and
the selectivity and poverty impact of the reform agenda.
22. The benefits expected from the program were more reliable public services, especially in
education and health, and stronger growth performance, with direct impact on poverty
reduction. Annual growth of GDP was expected to reach 5 percent during the 1995-98
period. The poverty alleviation benefits were not quantified, except as concerns primary
school enrollments. The reform in the cotton pricing mechanism was expected to increase
9



the income of about 200,000 cotton-growing families. In view of the lack of reliable data,
however, no attempt was made to assess the impact of this change.
23. The risks of the proposed strategy were carefully assessed in the CAS. First, political unrest
could halt implementation of the reform program, and/or a new government assuming power
after the 1996 elections could disown the program. This risk had been reduced by the
national reconciliation efforts, which brought warring factions into the Government, and the
extensive consultations with the civil society during program preparation. The second risk
stemmed from the weak institutional capacity in Chad. The country assistance strategy was
focused on both building and economizing capacity through donor support to sectoral
programs as much as possible. Another risk related to possible delays in the provision of
critical budgetary support by the donor community. The series of single-tranche adjustment
credits was designed to introduce increased predictability in the timing of reforms and
external support.
IV. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
24. In June 1999, the Government organized a seminar to assess the results of the adjustment
program with a large number of representatives of the civil society, including business, labor
unions and NGOs, and of the donor community. There was a broad consensus that
considerable progress had been achieved, particularly in the area of restoring a basic capacity
in the public sector. On the other hand, both the professional association and the labor
unions agreed that little had been achieved in terms of reducing poverty and improving the
business environment. This assessment was confirmed during meetings the ICR mission had
with one labor union and the business association to discuss their comments and
recommendations. Box 1 below summarizes the comments from the three main local
development partners.
Box 1
Comments of development partners on the reform program
The business association indicated that governance and the dialogue between the Government and the private sector
had improved. On the other hand, they emphasized that the tax burden on the formal sector was excessive, and the
fight against fraud was too timid.  They also mentioned the constraints related to poor infrastructure, the
shortcomings of the judicial system, and an inadequate training system, not geared to employment.
The three labor unions acknowledged that the adjustment program had some positive results, including the regular
payment of wages and the recruitment of additional staff in the education and health sectors. They also indicated
that, contrary to their fears, the firms, which had been privatized, had not shed labor. On the other hand, they
complained that the purchasing power of their wages had seriously declined over the period. They regretted that
there was no improvement in the management of the social security and retirement agencies. One of the unions also
emphasized that corruption was rampant, and the privatization process had benefited only a few individuals.
The NGO group made the same observations concerning the regular payment of wages, and the decline in
purchasing power as above. They regretted that not enough precautions had been taken in implementing the
divestiture program. They deplored that there was not enough dialogue between the Government and the civil
society for the preparation and monitoring of the adjustment program.
The three partners welcomed the opportunity to evaluate the reform program, and made a number of
recommendations for the preparation of a new program.
10



25. Table 2 below reviews the status of actions taken under the different SACs and the outcomes.
Table 2
Objectives       Actions Taken (SAC I)   Measures Scheduled for 1997-98 (SAC I)                             Outcomes
Restoring critical public Sector Capacity and improving government finances                                                 l
Civil Service   New organizational Charts   Creation of a National Commission for Civil Service Reform      Done
reform           prepared                  Civil Service Reform Diagnostic and Strategy Design
Strategy implementation
Abolition of automatic wage increase and adoption of merit-based wage
increase
Rehabilitation of  Progressive eluimnation of   Adoption of "imp6t synthetique", TCA (turnover tax) and Business Income   Done
public financed    tax loopholes through   tax for small businesses.
phase-out of special
enterprise regimes.
Increasing Develo ment and Poverty Alleviatin Impact of Public Expenditures
Demobilization    Demobilization of 7,000  Pilot reintegration program to prepare for ful reintegration.    Not complete
soldiers
Public          Elimination of arrears to  Continued reduction of outstanding arrears to domestic suppliers  Implemented &
expenditure      domestic suppliers.       Quarterly monitoring for financial data for PIP implementation and semi-    ongoing
management       Adoption of PIP criteria  annual for physical implementation
FuDl implementation of budgeted counterpart funds to foreign-financed
projects
Inproved         Switch of public resources   Switch of public expenditures toward priority sectors: health, education,  Done
resource        to priority sectors, non-  transport and social services; increase of 20% in real terms in budget
allocation to    wage budgetary allocations  aDlocation and their full execution to non-wage current expenditures in
social sectors  increased                  health and education; creation of 280 new primary school teaching jobs;
and 90 health service workers
Creating Favorable Environment for Private Sector Development
Judicial and     Amendment and adoption    Continued strengthening of the judicial system                   Done
regulatory       of Labor Code.            Plan for simplification and reduction the number of business procedures
environment                                Dissemination of Labor Code to social partners
Preparation of an Investment Code in the context of UDEAC taxation and
customs reform
==__________           _        Action plan for implementation of OHADA's unifonn acts
Restructuring of   Allocations toward      Completion of audits of CNRT and CNPS                            Done
the financial    repayment of government   Restructuring of CNRT to ensure financial viability
system           debts budgeted and        Search for partners and completion of privatization
executed.                Privatization of BDT and BTCD
State enterprise    Privatization of INT,  Privatization of 7 remaining public enterprises and banks
divestiture      SONAPA, SOTEC             SONASUT (Sugar) - ending of import monopoly; set transitional    Calls for bids
protection system in conformity with UDEAC customs reform; adoption of  issued
divestiture plan and a multi-year tariff production reduction system
STEE (utilities) - Adoption of divestiture plan and bids for privatization  Done
ONPTITIT (telecommunications) - separation of postal services and
telecom activities; merging of telecom component of ONPT and TIT into a   Plan for
new telecom company; Preparation of new telecommnunication code;  privatization of
granting licenses to private cellular operators; privatization of new telecom    SOTELTCHAD
company
Cotton Sector    Implementation delayed    Removal of COTONTCHAD monopsony in primary marketing and
Reform                                     monopoly in ginning and export marketing. Adoption of a two-step cotton    Privatization of
producer pricing mechanism; implementation of pilot operation for input  COTTONTCHAD
procurement and distribution and mput credit provision for 1998-99 crop  has not started
season; creation of Cotton sector monitoring conumittee with producer
representation; review on agricultural taxation on inputs and equipment,
preparation of a multi-year tax reduction plan; divestiture of
COTONTCHAD from oil and soap business; decentralization of gin factory
management; human resource recruitment and training program for
COTONTCHAD managers; preparation of memorandum on
COTONTCHAD's export marketing operation and performance.
11



26. Achievements of objectives. Over the past four years, Chad has made considerable
progress. Expected outcomes have been in large part achieved, as indicated in table 2 below.
Accordingly, the outcome of the program is rated satisfactory. Economic growth has
accelerated to an average of 4.2 percent during 1995-98, close to the 5 percent envisaged in
the program. The rural sector has been the main beneficiary of the reform program. Its
contribution to GDP has increased from 33 percent in 1993 to 37 percent in 1998. The
incomes of cotton-growing farmers have been improved as the result of the government
decision to pay producers at least 50 percent of the fob export price starting with the 1997-98
crop year. After an initial surge following the devaluation of the CFA franc, inflation has
been brought down to 4.3 percent in 1998.
27. Growth remains fragile, however. It is strongly affected by exogenous factors, such as rains,
world prices and developments in neighboring countries. Growth in 1999 is expected to be
negligible. Inadequate supply of oil from Nigeria in 1998-99 brought a number of activities
to a standstill. This has been compounded by the steep decline in cotton prices. If
international prices continue to be low, cotton farmers are likely to be increasingly
discouraged. They are growing dissatisfied with the constraints of cultivating cotton, as
evidenced by the decline in the use of inputs and in yields.
Table 3
Objective                 Expected outcome                      Actual achievements'
Establish          stable  Growth of 5% p.a; inflation down to 3%   Real GDP growth of 4.2% in 1995-98;
macroeconomic framework   p.a.                                  inflation down to 4.3% in 1998
Restore critical public sector  Increase government revenue so as to  Revenue to GDP ratio increased from
capacity                  double absolute amount in real terms  4.9% in 1994 to 7.6% in 1998 (a 86%
from 1994 to 1998;                   increase in real terms);
Pay civil servants regularly          Civil servants paid regularly
Reduce civil service wage bill from 5.8%
of GDP in 1995 to 5. 1% of GDP in 1998
Focus public expenditures  Increase enrollments in primary schools  Gross enrollments in primary school
on poverty alleviation    from 46% in 1994 to 55% in 2000 (girls  were increased from 48% in 1995-96
32% to 38%)                          to 64.8 (girls from 32% to 46.2%) in
1997-98.
Create  an   environment  Improved business environment through  Only  small enterprises privatized;
favorable for private sector  completion of privatization program and  legislation adopted; financial sector
development               legal reform. Increase private investment restructured.
from 1.4% of GDP in 1995 to 4.5% in  Private investment rate increased from
1998.                                5.3% of GDP in 1995 to 11 % of GDP
in 1998
28. The public finance situation has improved considerably, enabling the public sector to operate
in a much more normal mode than before implementation of the reform program. Tight
control over public expenditures and enhanced revenue mobilization have moved the budget
from a current deficit of 5 percent of GDP in 1994 to positive balances since 1997. The
share of revenue to GDP has increased from 4.9 percent in 1994 to 7.6 percent in 1998. The
wage bill is now paid regularly. There is no longer any accumulation of arrears.
29. A significant reallocation of public expenditures has been achieved in favor of developmental
sectors. The demobilization of about 12,000 soldiers during program implementation has
Due to revisions of the National Accounts the actual indicators have been made consistent with the revised GDP
series.
12



substantially reduced resources allocated to defense and internal security. On the other hand,
thanks to annual increases of 20 percent in the allocations to the social sectors, their share in
the current budget has increased from 22 percent in 1994 to 32 percent in 1998. The budget
execution rate in these sectors has also improved, reaching an average of 83 percent for
health and 88 percent for education in 1998.
30. The environment for private sector development has improved. The Govemment has
become a more predictable partner. Commercial banks have been privatized. Despite these
changes, however, the share of private investment in GDP has not significantly increased
over the period, particularly when account is taken of investment by oil companies for the
Doba project in the past two years. The rate is still at a low 11 percent of GDP, which is not
sufficient for the sustained 5 percent GDP growth rate envisaged by the authorities for the
future. Considerable obstacles remain to a steady expansion of the private sector. The cost
of utilities and transport is extremely high, the judicial system is inefficient and biased in
favor of debtors and employees, and there is an unfair competition between a narrow formal
sector, which is heavily taxed, and a large informal sector, which escapes taxation. The
number of enterprises, which are members of the main business association, is small at about
60, and has not increased over past years.
Outputs by components.
31. Implementation of the reform program was slower than initially expected. Some components
were delayed and have not yet been completed. This is the case in particular of the
reintegration program for demobilized soldiers and the divestiture program.
32. Civil service reform. In April 1997, the Government established a National Committee for
Civil Service Reform. Shortly afterwards, two bodies were created, a steering committee
comprised of core ministers, and a technical committee. In October 1997, the Head of State
launched a seminar to discuss the Committee's preliminary proposals along four themes: the
institutional and legal framework, the pay system, the management of human resources, and
the role of women.
33. In July 1998, three seminars were organized to discuss a draft Public Administration Reform
Program, which was reviewed and adopted by the Government in December 1998. A set of
basic principles was approved, such as recruitment of personnel on the basis of competency,
and remuneration linked to performance. The process of reform is underway, but moving
slowly, for lack of adequate human and financial resources. The work program is focused on
the revision of the statutes of the civil service, the harmonization of personnel and payroll
data, and the revision of pay policy.
34. Rehabilitation of public finances. Considerable efforts have been made to improve the
performance of revenue mobilization agencies. Increasing revenues has been the single most
important objective of the Government over past years, and impressive results have been
achieved. In 1994 government revenue was slightly over one fourth of its total expenditure.
This share increased to slightly over one third in 1995, and was close to one half in 1998.
Chad has moved decisively on the path to fiscal self-sufficiency, but there is still a long way
to go.
13



35. The drive for increasing revenues has targeted a narrow formal sector in a disproportionate
way. An effort has been made, however, to tax companies with an annual turnover lower
than CFAF 40 million (about US$62,000) through the introduction of a synthetic tax
replacing a number of low-yielding taxes. Little has been done, on the other hand, to develop
partnerships with local communities for the delivery of social services. In the framework of
the Public Administration Reform Program, the Government has adopted basic principles for
decentralization, but much remains to be done to translate them into viable policies.
36. Budget preparation and implementation have improved, but serious shortcomings persist.
The division between the current budget and the investment budget, with the former prepared
by the Ministry of Finance and the latter prepared by the Ministry of Planning, is an artificial
one. The investment budget includes externally financed expenditures, including a large
amount for recurrent spending, particularly in priority sectors, such as education and health.
Preparation of the current budget involves marginal adjustments to past allocations, and is
not based on a thorough analysis of the effectiveness of past expenditure.
37. Budget execution procedures are cumbersome with highly redundant controls. Considerable
work is needed to improve the flow of funds, particularly as concerns timely payments to
suppliers in areas far from N'djamena, the capital city. In an attempt to circumvent the
complexity of regular procedures, many managers seek exemptions and exceptional
procedures, with a resulting loss in transparency and accountability.
38. Demobilization. In 1992, the Chidden army had a total of 47,000 people. Today, its size is
about one half of what it used to be. On the one hand, a total of about 26,000 soldiers have
been demobilized, including about 12,000 who were put on early retirement. On the other
hand, several rebel groups have been incorporated into the army following peace accords
negotiated in past years. During the 1996-99 period, about 12,000 soldiers have left the
army. The wage bill in the military has not been reduced as much as would have been
expected from the figures above, however. In 1994, it represented 26 percent of the total
wage bill, and was still 21 percent in 1998.
39. Under the first SAC, the Government was expected to use part of the CFAF counterpart of
the credit to finance severance payments, ranging from CFAF 100,000 to 600,000 per person
depending upon the grade, for a total of about 7000 people. Under the second SAC, a US$3
million pilot program was included to help reintegrate about 3000 soldiers into civilian life.
Implementation of the program was much delayed and poorly managed, however. A new
management team was appointed in early 1999 and good progress has been made since. In
1999 a total of 388 projects, mostly in agriculture, have been approved for a total of 2495
beneficiaries, including 2070 former soldiers. The average direct cost per soldier is about
US$320, which is reasonable. No assessment has been made of the impact of the pilot
program. Funding is not available for the time being for extending the program.
40. Expenditure management and increased allocations for priority sectors. Expenditure
management has considerably improved over the period. Supervision missions reviewed
proposed budget allocations and the draft PIP on an annual basis. The clearance of external
arrears, and a sharp increase in counterpart funding from CFAF 320 million in 1995 to about
CFAF 3 billion in 1998 have allowed a resumption of donor-financed projects. Domestic
arrears have also been reduced. Much remains to be done, however, to ensure a smooth
functioning of government. Non-wage allocations to several ministries are negligible, and
14



allocations for electricity or telecommunications services are consistently lower than actual
consumption.
Table 4
Health sector financing and expenditures
1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999
Total financing (million CFAF)    12963    24925    17025    20210    19358    21155
Of which State budget        3259     3761      4216     4868     5654      6606
External financing    9629     21079    12734    15266    13634    14481
External financing (% of total)    75%  85%      75%      76%       70%      68%
Total expenditures(million CFAF)  5253    ]5756  6212      6883    17652     8605
Of which Salaries            2059     2062      2163     2301     2585      2770
Operating costs      1200     1699     2053      2585    ]3069     3836
Source: Government of Chad
41. The share of defense in current expenditure has been reduced from about 19 percent in 1994
to 13 percent in 1998, which has created room for increasing expenditure for priority sectors.
As indicated above, allocations for non-wage current expenditures in education, health, social
affairs and transport have been increased by more than 20 percent in real terms (35 percent
and 47 percent in nominal terms in 1997 and 1998). The social sectors were the only ones
allowed to hire additional personnel. In the primary education sector 280 new teachers were
hired annually in 1996 and 1997. An additional 400 were hired in 1998. In the health and
social affairs sectors, hiring has been severely constrained by the limited number of graduates
from nursing schools. About 90 people have been recruited annually. For lack of reliable
data, however, it is not possible to measure the impact on increased inputs in the social
sectors.
Table 5
Education sector financing and expenditures
1995          1996           1997           1998
Total financing (million CFAF)    10,126         11,954        14,636         15,327
As % of total budget            16.4%          16.0%          20.0%         20.0%
Total expenditures
Of which Salaries (total)       8,410          9,671          11,941        10,950
Primary education   4,071          4,633          4,937          4,734
Operating costs (total)    1,716       2,283         2,695          4,378
Primary education   458            590            763            1,001
Source: Government of Chad
42. Road maintenance considerably improved during 1995-97, but deteriorated subsequently for
two reasons. First, the semi-autonomous Road Maintenance Fund (CAER), which allowed to
gradually increase resource mobilization both internally and externally, was discontinued for
the purpose of unifying the government budget. This change had a negative impact on the
timely availability of funds for road maintenance. Second, in 1998 the Government extended
indirect taxation (TCA) to transport services, on top of existing road user charges earmarked
for road maintenance, prompting private transporters to go on strike. The strike ended .when
the Government agreed to reduce road user charges. The amount of the third SAC was
increased by the equivalent of CFAF 2.2 billion not to lose a critical maintenance year.
Drawing the lessons from this experience, a consensus was reached among the Government,
15



the IMF and the Bank to establish a Second-Generation Road Maintenance Fund in Chad. It
is expected to be operational in early 2001.
43. Judicial and regulatory environment. In 1996, the labor code was amended to introduce
increased flexibility in hiring and firing. In the samne year, the Government ratified the
OHADA treaty establishing a common business legislation and a regional Court of Justice in
the CFA zone. A common investment code is being prepared for the Economic Union of
Central African States. With bilateral financing, limited efforts were made to strengthen the
judicial system.  Much remains to be done in this area, however, as was forcefully
emphasized by representatives of the business association during the evaluation seminar and
the ICR mission.
44. Financial system. All commercial banks are now majority-owned by the private sector. The
largest bank was sold in December 1997, but COBAC, the regional regulatory agency,
opposed the sale on grounds that the buyer had not complied with requirements for bank
failure resolution in the past. Negotiations were successfully concluded with the second
bidder in February 1999. The sale of a controlling stake in the development bank took place
in December 1998. A preliminary plan to settle government debts to the two pension
companies (CNPS for private sector employees and CNRT for public sector employees) was
prepared and a first installment was made in 1996. A consultant was hired to make an
assessment of the two companies in January 1998. Restructuring programs have been
prepared. They will be submitted to the Parliament for approval, together with a social
security code, which is under preparation.
45. Divestiture. During the 1995-98 period, the Government continued its divestiture program
with the privatization and liquidation of small and medium enterprises. The divestiture of the
five large enterprises was much delayed, however. It started in earnest in mid-1998 with the
recruitment of consultants and merchant banks. The privatization of SONASUT, the Sugar
Company, and of STEE is well advanced. In both cases, the work done by consultants
financed under the ongoing TA project was highly appreciated. In both cases also, despite
expression of interest from several firms, only one bid was received. Finalization of
agreements hinges in both cases on an appropriate mechanism to address the debt of these
two enterprises. In the case of SONASUT, the company will benefit from a declining
protection system over five years, including reference prices starting at CFAF 350 per kg.,
combined with a surtax.
46. The privatization of telecommunications is underway, but will not be completed before June
2001 at best. In August 1998, a telecommunications code was enacted. In July 1999,
consultants were recruited to prepare the separation of postal from telecommunications
services. The report is available and the respective companies, SPTE (postal services) and
SOTELTCHAD (telecommunications services) are about to be created. SOTELTCHAD will
be merged with TIT, the company in charge of international telecommunications, which is
partly owned by two foreign operators, (Alcatel and FCR). The valuation of their shares has
been completed. In December 1998, bids were called for the licensing of a mobile telephone
operator. In October 1999, an agreement was reached with the highest bidder, MSI, which
bought the license for CFAF 1,230 million. It will start operating in June 2000. The
privatization of COTONTCHAD has not yet started, and is not expected before end-2001 at
best. The cotton sector reform is discussed below.
16



47. Over the 1994-99 period, 14 enterprises have been privatized and 14 have been liquidated.
The Government has remained a shareholder in most privatized companies, however. It has
kept about 15 to 20 percent of the share capital in all companies, except the quarrying
company (SOGEC) and the rural water drilling company, (ONHPV), in which it holds 34
percent of the share capital. Two enterprises, a hotel and the slaughterhouse, have been
privatized through a management contract. The sale of shares in public companies has
yielded CFAF 2,640 million, of which about CFAF 700 million from local investors.
Initially, the Government systematically favored local investors, and particularly those who
committed themselves to maintaining the level of employment. These concerns might have
resulted in lower benefits from  privatization than could have been expected.  The
Government's position has evolved over time, however, with increased openness to foreign
investors. Most privatized enterprises have reported increased turnover and benefits.
48. Cotton sector reform. The objective of the reform program was to increase the share of
farmers in the fob price of cotton to at least 50 percent, and to improve the effectiveness of
COTONTCHAD through decentralization, divestiture of non-core activities and removal of
its monopoly situation in cotton buying, processing and exporting. The price of seed cotton
was increased from CFAF 140 per kg. in the 1995-96 crop year to CFAF 170 per kg. in the
1995-96 crop year. A two-step price mechanism was introduced for the 1997-98 crop
season, resulting in a final price averaging CFAF 194 per kg. (170 initial price and 24
additional payment after export sales). In the 1998-99 crop season, the second payment was
not made, as the average fob price declined by 14 percent. In both crop years the share of
farmers reached 54 percent of the fob price. In the 1995-96 crop year, their share was 40
percent only.
49. Despite improved producer prices in 1997-98, the production of seed cotton has declined by
38 percent in 1998-99. A large number of farmers have become discouraged by the
constraints and cost of modern cotton cultivation and have reverted to traditional techniques.
Average yields have declined from a three-year average of 773 kg. per ha. to a low 541 kg
per ha in 1998-99. With continued decline in world prices in 1999, the cotton sector is again
back to a crisis mode. Producer prices have been lowered to CFAF 150 per kg., which is
likely to further discourage farmers. The Government has not used the window of
opportunity of favorable prices in the mid- 1990s to initiate a deep reform of the cotton sector.
Now it is forced to take difficult measures to cope with a large deficit in the sector.
Institutional development impact:
50. The three SACs, combined with the TA project, have helped Chad re-establish the basic
institutions needed for promoting development. Before the reform program was initiated, the
public sector was in disarray. Civil servants were not paid regularly and were frequently on
strike. For lack of operating budget, they were not able to accomplish much. The situation
has considerably improved. The wage bill is now paid regularly, and key ministries receive
basic allocations for their operating expenditures.
51. The economic unit in charge of monitoring the reform program has provided solid leadership.
It is well organized and highly effective. During program implementation it was based in the
Presidency, which gave it the high visibility needed to steer and monitor reforms. It has now
been streamlined into the Ministry of Finance. Other institutions in charge of the reform
program in the areas of civil service reform, state divestiture and demobilization have gained
17



valuable experience and are operating satisfactorily. The capacity for economic management
has considerably improved over past years. The institutional development impact of the
three SACs is therefore rated substantial.
V. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
52. A major factor for the successful implementation of the reform program has been the smooth
transition to democratic rule. In March 1996 a new constitution was adopted by referendum.
A presidential election, won by the incumbent, took place in June 1996. Legislative elections
were held in early 1997. The new Cabinet appointed shortly after, included members from
opposition parties and had a broad mandate to implement the reform program.
53. On the other hand, negative factors included the recurrence of armed rebellions, the energy
crisis in 1998 and the recent decline in cotton prices. An armed rebellion in the south of the
country was a major factor in the cautious attitude of the Government in addressing long
standing problems in the cotton sector. The recent decline in cotton prices has made reform
more pressing and more difficult as well. In 1998, the supply of petroleum products from
Nigeria was interrupted, which forced the country's filling stations to close and led to
frequent power failures, making it impossible for many agencies and enterprises to operate
normally.
Factors generally subject to government control:
54. Whilst the results of elections are outside the control of Government, the way the
Government handles their aftermath is clearly under its control. As indicated earlier, the
inclusion of members from opposition parties in the post-elections Cabinet was a positive
move for the success of the reform program. Another positive factor has been the strong
support given by the Government to the economic unit in charge of monitoring the reform
program. The Steering Committee for the adjustment program, chaired by the Head of State,
met regularly to make decisions and ensure a follow up.
55. On the other hand, the government reaction to the energy crisis has not been helpful. It
sought to impose controls and simply made the situation worse. Another negative factor has
been the delay in reforming the cotton sector. There was a window of opportunity to address
deep-seated problems in the sector when international prices were favorable. With lower
prices, farmers may not have enough incentives for increasing their productivity and moving
out of subsistence agriculture.
18



VI. Sustainability
56. The sustainability of the reform program supported by the three SACs is likely. During
program implementation the Government has sought to broaden the support to reforms. The
civil society at large acknowledges that the program had positive results, mainly because it
enabled the public sector to operate after years of decay. There is strong support in the
country for increasing budget allocations to social sectors and providing resources for road
development and maintenance. It is highly unlikely that any future govermnent would re-
nationalize enterprises which have been privatized under the program. As for the large
companies, yet to be privatized, public opinion is generally favorable to a change,
particularly as concerns the water and Electricity Company, which is bankrupt for all
practical purposes and unable to operate normally.
57. The reform program, as well as the political transition, is fragile however. Local conflicts
could flare up. A guerilla is presently operating in the Saharan region of Tibesti. So far it
has been a low intensity hit-and-run guerilla warfare, but it could become a more serious
challenge to the Government, which in turn would lead to an increase of military
expenditures, and jeopardize past progress. Another element of fragility lies in Chad's
continued high dependence on external support for the operation of its priority sectors, as
well as of its institutions in charge of steering the reform program. IDA has provided strong
support to these institutions over past years and has been requested to continue doing so.
58. Future operations. A new program is under preparation to consolidate the results achieved
over past years. The program will help Chad make the transition to the oil economy, and
prepare for an effective use of its oil revenues, expected to come on stream in 2003-04. A
new TA project has been approved in January 2000 to help the Government build capacity to
implement its oil revenue management strategy, formulated through an intensive consultation
process. The project will contribute to the strengthening of the public financial management
system, the development of a poverty database and strategy, the implementation of civil
service reform in key ministries, and the reinforcement of oversight and control.
VII. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
59. The performance of the Bank from identification to completion is rated satisfactory. The
reform program was formulated through intensive consultations between the Government
and the Bank. It was clearly focused on priority actions needed to help Chad recover from a
highly unsustainable fiscal situation.  Emphasis was put on resource mobilization,
demobilization, state divestiture and increased allocations to priority sectors. The three
SACs were fully consistent with the 1996 CAS.
60. As underlined by the QAG assessment of the third SAC, the design of Bank support in the
form of a series of single tranche adjustment credits was innovative and appropriate given
circumstances of high uncertainty and limited track record. On the other hand, the QAG
panel was of the opinion that a more selective agenda would have been pursued by the Bank
in Chad, had the activities supported by the third credit been seen from the perspective of
19



poverty alleviation. Furthermore, it noted that the potential economic and poverty reductions
benefits of each of these reforms was not estimated either qualitatively or quantitatively. The
ICR mission disagrees with this assessment. State divestiture is an essential element of a
strategy aimed at focussing the public sector on its core functions, including poverty
alleviation through improved delivery of basic social services. On the other hand, it is clear
that more work should have been done on establishing adequate databases for estimating the
contribution of reform components to poverty alleviation.
61. The appraisal of the first SAC was fully satisfactory. The Government commitment to
reform and its capacity to implement the reform program was adequately assessed. Taking
account of past experience in providing technical assistance for economic management, a TA
project was formulated to help the Government implement its reform program. Close
relations were maintained with the IMF and major donors during preparation and appraisal of
the program. The risks of the proposed approach were carefully assessed, and lessons from
prior experience were fully taken into account.
62. During program implementation, the Bank maintained a close dialogue with the Borrower
and its main partners.  Frequent Bank missions visited Chad to supervise program
implementation and prepare a new phase of reforms within the overall framework provided
by the 1996 CAS. The country director made several visits, and the resident representative
was actively involved in day-to-day supervision of the reform program. Three CPPRs took
place during program implementation, which gave the Bank and Government teams an
opportunity to review progress under the portfolio, and more generally under the reform
program, both in macro and micro terms.
63. The Bank could have been more proactive in the cotton sector reform. As indicated earlier,
the Government has missed an opportunity to open up the sector when international prices
were favorable. In the absence of a convincing case for reform, the Government was not
prepared to go beyond the limited steps taken under the program. In retrospect, the Bank
should have supported the preparation of a broad reform program based on solid analyses and
widely discussed among stakeholders. The Bank team was particularly cautious in this area,
however, because of a major divergence of views with a key donor, and the concern that
difficult reforms should be properly sequenced. During the period 1997-99, the Bank was
engaged in a difficult dialogue with the Government on the issue of developing a strategy for
the management of oil resources. Such a strategy was viewed as a pre-requisite for Bank
support to moving Chad into the oil era, which is at the core of the new country assistance
strategy prepared in 1999. Cotton sector reform was deliberately set aside.
64. Overall the performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. The Bank has helped Chad make a
major leap forward. The 1996 strategy was appropriate and it worked well for Chad. The
dialogue with Chad was tense at times, but fruitful.
Borrower
65. The performance of the Borrower is also rated satisfactory. The Government forcefully
implemented its reform program, initially centered on increasing public revenues, and
gradually broadened to improving the delivery of social services, privatizing key public
enterprises, and reintegrating demobilized soldiers into civil life. The teams in charge of
reforms in these areas have accumulated valuable experience. They were supported by the
20



top echelons of Government, who carefully monitored program  implementation.  As
indicated earlier, the slow pace of reform in the cotton sector is a matter of concern. The new
crisis in which the sector finds itself again is likely to be a wake up call for the authorities.
VIII. Lessons Learned
66. The new approach proposed in the 1996 CAS, consisting of moving towards joint funding by
the donor community and the Government of a public expenditure program made a lot of
sense in a context where more than half of public expenditure is financed by external sources.
It was too ambitious, however, in a post-conflict situation, with most limited government
capacity and track record. The recently approved TA project should help Chad develop
public expenditure programs to be financed by oil revenues and external assistance.
67. The proposal for single-tranche adjustment credits tied with the budget cycle was appropriate
given circumstances. However, a stronger link to the budget and its expected outcomes
would have been in keeping with the original design. The second and third credits should
have been better anchored in public expenditure reviews, carried out jointly with the donor
community. The documentation for these two operations is not sufficiently precise on actual
expenditures and their impact.
68. Sector strategies were embryonic at the outset of the reform program. Allocating increased
resources to priority sectors, which had been starved for years, was seen as an appropriate
thing to do. It was indeed the right approach for most sectors, with, possibly, the exception
of the education sector, however. The past strategy supported by the donor community was
flawed, as it would have led to an unsustainable system. Investing an increased amount of
resources in this sector was therefore bound to make reforms more difficult to implement
later. The strategy for the education sector has been revised and will be discussed soon with
the donor community.
69. During the period under review, the divestiture program concerned the small enterprises
only, as, until recently, the Government was not prepared to privatize the five largest
enterprises. Through the process, however, the Government gained useful experience and is
much better geared up for the large privatizations. The Government is aware that improved
communications are a key ingredient for a successful privatization program.
70. When the program was launched, more resources should have been allocated to the analytical
work needed for preparing the cotton sector reform. A study was available, but it was of
poor quality, and did not provide the underpinnings for a comprehensive reform, which
would have considerable implications for a large part of Chad's population. Precious time
was lost and the sector is in a worse shape now than three years ago.
71. The technical and steering committees established for the reform program and its
components helped establish a consensus among major stakeholders in Chad. The top
echelons of Government were kept adequately informed and able to make decisions when
required.
72. Little progress was made during program implementation in the areas of civil service reform,
reinsertion of demobilized soldiers and cotton sector reform. These areas are highly sensitive
21



politically, and it should not be surprising that a Government emerging from years of civil
conflict was not in a position to move forcefully.
IX. Partner Comments
73. The Government noted with satisfaction that the program has met its key objectives and that
the results have significantly contributed to attaining social stability and peace in the country.
In June 1999, the Government organized a two-day seminar to assess the results of the
adjustment program with a large number of representatives of the civil society, including
business, labor unions and NGOs, and of the donor community. There was a broad
consensus that considerable progress had been achieved, particularly in the area of restoring a
basic capacity in the public sector. On the other hand, both the professional association and
the labor unions agreed that little had been achieved in terms of reducing poverty and
improving the business environment. This assessment was confirmed during meetings the
ICR mission had with one labor union and the business association to discuss their comments
and recommendations.
74. The partners welcomed the opportunity to evaluate the reform program, and made a number
of recommendations for the preparation of a new program. The business association
indicated that governance and the dialogue between the Government and the private sector
had improved. On the other hand, they emphasized that the tax burden on the formal sector
was excessive, and the fight against fraud was too timid.  They also mentioned the
constraints related to poor infrastructure, the shortcomings of the judicial system, and an
inadequate training system, not geared to employment. The three labor unions acknowledged
that the adjustment program had some positive results, including the regular payment of
wages and the recruitment of additional staff in the education and health sectors. They also
indicated that, contrary to their fears, the firms, which had been privatized, had not shed
labor. On the other hand, they complained that the purchasing power of their wages had
seriously declined over the period. They regretted that there was no improvement in the
management of the social security and retirement agencies.  One of the unions also
emphasized that corruption was rampant, and the privatization process had benefited only a
few individuals. The NGO group made the same observations concerning the regular
payment of wages, and the decline in purchasing power as above. They regretted that not
enough precautions had been taken in implementing the divestiture program. They deplored
that there was not enough dialogue between the Government and the civil society for the
preparation and monitoring of the adjustment program.
22



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators
POLICY MATRIX
Objectives                                         Outputs/Achievements
Restoring Critical Public Sector Capacity and Improving Government Finances
Civil Service Reform
Rehabilitate administration to a modest size civil  National Commission for Civil Service Reform established
service focusing on a set of key public functions  Civil Service Reform diagnostic studies and strategy prepared
Design a merit-based remuneration system and
abolition of automatic wage increase             Merit-based remuneration system adopted;
Public Administration Reform Program adopted; implementation
underway
Regular payment of civil servants
Rehabilitation of publicfinances
Preparation of tax reform                       Tax reform implemented
Adoption of synthetic tax ("impot synthetique"). TCA (turn-over
tax) and business income tax for small businesses (with turnover
of less than CFAF 40 million)
Elimination of tax loopholes                    Tax loopholes eliminated through the phase-out of special
enterprise regimes
Increasing development and Poverty Alleviation Impact on Public Expenditures
Denmobilifation
Reduction of army size by half and assisting  Size of army reduced from  47,000 to almost half (26,000
resettlement and reintegration of forner combatants  demobilized)
Pilot reintegration program for ex-combatants underway
Public expenditure management                    Outstanding arrears to domestic suppliers eliminated
Improvement  of  PE  management to  restore  Number of PIP projects reduced
macroeconomic stability,                         Quarterly budget execution for counterpart funds introduced
Public Expenditure programs and PIP             Semi-annual physical implementation reports issued
Quarterly financial implementation reports issued
Execu4tion rate of counterpart funds over 90%
Improved resource allocation to social sectors   Non-wage current expenditures in education and health actually
increased by 20% in real terms
Primary teaching posts increased by 280 annually
Health service workers increased by 90 annually
Non-wage expenditures for non-priority sectors reduced by 15%
Poverty Monitoring                               ECOSIT Household budget survey completed
Multi-year statistical poverty monitoring program prepared
23



Creating Favorable Environment for Private Sector Growth
Judicial and regulatory environment
Amendments to Labor Code                        Labor Code amended and adopted and disseminated to social
partners
Simplification of business procedures
Action  plan  for simplification  and  reduction  of business
procedures prepared and under implementation
Simplification of Investment Code
Preparation of Investment Code in the context of the regional
UDEAC taxation and customs reform
Ratification of OHADA treaty
OHADA Treaty ratified; Action plan for the implementation of
Treaty prepared
Restructuring offinancial sector
Implementation of action plan to repay government  Audits of CNPS and CNRT completed
debts to CNPS and CNRT                            CNRT restructured to ensure financial viability
Bank privatization                              Privatization of BDT and BTCD completed
State enterprise divestiture
Privatization  and  liquidation  of  loss-making  Privatization of INT,SONAPA, SOTEC, BTCD, BDT, Hotel du
enterprises                                      Chari, ONPVH,SNER
SONASUT (sugar)
Import monopoly removed
Transitional protection system introduced
Divestiture plan adopted
STEE (water and electricity)
Divestiture plan adopted
Bids for privatization issued
ONPT/TIT (telecommunications)
Separation of postal services and telecom activities
Telecom  component of ONPT and TIT merged into a new
telecom company
Telecommunications code approved by Parliament
License granted to private cellular operator
Privatization of new telecom company underway
Cotton Sector Reform
Gradual decentralization of COTONTCHAD          Monopsony and monopoly of COTONTCHAD eliminated
Divestiture of COTONTCHAD from oil and soap business
COTONTCHAD export marketing operation and performance
assessed.
Restructuring program including spinning of non-core activities
implemented
A two-step producer pricing mechanism linked to world and
domestic cotton seed prices introduced
Pilot operation for input procurement, distribution and credit
implemented
Setting up of CSFC (Cotton Sector Monitoring Committee) with
producer representation
Tax-reduction plan for taxation on inputs and equipment adopted.
Management decentralization plan implemented
Recruitment and training program for Chadian managers
implemented.
24



PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Target Performance Indicators                 Performance indicators (actual) 1998
Achieve average annual growth rate of real GDP  Real growth averaged 4.2 % (1995-98)
of 5%, or 2.5 per capita growth
Civil service reform
Reduce civil service wage bill from  5.8%  of Wage bill reduced to 4.0% of GDP in 1998
GDP In 1995 to 5.1% in 1998
Public finance rehabilitation
Increase revenue as to double absolute amount Revenue to GDP ratio increased from 4.9% in 1994 to 7.6%
in real terms in 1998.                        in 1998.
Public expenditures
Improve resource allocation to social sectors  Share of priority sectors in total expenditures increased to
(48% in 1994)                                 62%
Health (12% in 1994)
Education (32% 1994)                          Health 18% (1998)
Education 38% (1998)
Execution rate in budgetary allocations for health, education
lincrease primary school enrollmenit from  46%  and social affairs close to 90%
(girls 32%) in 1994                           Primary school gross enrollment: 64.8% (girls 46.2%) in
1997-98
Improve execution of counterpart funds to PIP
Execution rate of counterpart funds to PIP above 90%
Create favorable environment for private sector
growth
Increase private investmenit from 1.4% of GDP  Private sector investment to GDP 11.0%
in 1995 to 4.5% in 1998
Actual performance indicators have been made consistent with the revised GDP series.
25



Chad- Key Macroeconomic Indicators (1994-2000)
_____________19
11994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Real Growth rate (%)                                                          (est.)    (proj)
GDP                               10.2       0.7       3.7       4.1       8.1     -1.1       3.8
Implicit GDP deflator             43.3       8.5      11.8       2.8       4.1     -5.7       5.9
Consumer price (average)          41.3       9.1      11.8       5.9       4.4     -8.4       2.3
Export volumes                   -20.7      35.1      -7.1      20.7        8      -18.6     12.1
Import volumes                   -18.8      56.9       5.1       5.4      -7.8     -6.2      16.3
As a percent of GDP
Fixed Investment                  11.8      11.6     16.5        15      16.4        17      22.7
Public                            7.4       6.3       6.3      6.6       5.4       7.2         8
Private                           4.4       5.3      10.2       8.4       11       9.8      14.7
Gross domestic savings            -2.1      -5.1      -0.5       0.1       1.9     -1.2       0.5
Total government revenues          4.9       6.2       7.2\      7.7       7.6       9.4      9.4
Government expenditures           19.1      18.1      18.31     17.9      15.3      19.9     21.3
Fiscal deficit                   -14.2    -11.9    -11.11    -10.2        -7.7    -10.5    -11.9
Current account (- deficit)                               I
Including official transfers     -11.5    -10.4    -14.8    -14.1    -12.9    -17.4    -20.9
Excluding official transfers    -20.9    -17.6    -21.1    -18.84    -16.7    -20.5    -24.4
External debt                       601       56       54        5S|       52        64        64
Memorandum:                           l         I
CFA franc per U.S. dollar          555       499      512       580       589       607       607
GDP in US$ million                1179      14411     1623     1533      1697      1692      1685
Nominal GDP (in billions of CFA  654.7      716.l   830.2    888.21    999.3    931.2   1023.6
francs)
Source: IMF
26



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
SAC I
Categories       Appraisal Estimate    Estimate During        Actual/Latest
(SDR Million)      Effectiveness Date        Estimate
(SDR Million)        (SDR Million)
1. Eligible Imports         22.2                  22.2                 22.2
2. Consultant Services
Total                        22.2                 22.2                 22.2
SAC II
Categories       Appraisal Estimate    Estimate During        Actual/Latest
(SDR Million)      Effectiveness Date        Estimate
(SDR Million)        (SDR Million)
1. Eligible Imports  -       18                    18                   18
2. Consultant Services
18                   18                   18
Total
SAC III
Categories       Appraisal Estimate    Estimate During        Actual/Latest
(SDR Million)      Effectiveness Date        Estimate
(SDR Million)        (SDR Million)
1. Eligible Imports         22.2                  22.2                 22.2
2. Consultant Services
Total                        22.2                 22.2                 22.2
27



Annex 3. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions'
Stages of project cycle   Missions                Number of persons and specialty
Identification/          May 13-June 2, 1995      7       2 economists; financial adviser, operations officer,
Preparation (SAC I)                                      div. chief, energy specialist; agri-economist
Preparation (SAC I)      Sept. 17-24, 1995        4       economist, agri-economist, financial analyst, cotton
sector specialist
Appraisal (SAC I)        Dec. 10-20, 1995         2       2 economists
Supervision (SAC I)      Feb 26- March 20, 1996   1       economist
Preparation (SAC 11)     Dec.3-21, 1996           7       2 economists, public sector spec.; social scientist;
Supervision (SAC I)                                      private sector spec.; 2 agri-economists
Appraisal (SAC 11)       Feb. 25-March 14, 97     5       economist, public sector spec.; social scientist;
legal counsel; agri-economist
Supervision (SAC 11)     August 97                2       social scientist, public sector spec.
Supervision (SAC 11)     Aug. 13-Sept 3, 1997     2      2 economists
Supervision (SAC 11)     Oct. 31-Nov. 15, 1997    2      2 economists
Supervision (SAC 11)     Jan. 27-Feb. 11, 1998    4      2 economists; public enterprise spec.; energy
Preparation (SAC 111)                                    specialist
Supervision SAC 11       May 26-June 5, 1998      2      social scientist, public sector spec.
Pre-appraisal SAC III    June 22-July 10, 1998    4      economist; public sector devt. spec. public
_____________________           Ienterprise spec.; agri-economist
ICR (for all 3 SACs)     Dec. 5-11, 1999          2      economist, program assistant
fb) Staff
SAC I
Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation            54.1                         107.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                 7.7                           19.0
Supervision                           45.6                          57.3
ICR
Total                                107.4                         183.5
SAC II
Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation            36.7                          82.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                 7.6                           16.8
Supervision                           31.7                          76.9
ICR
Total                                 75.7                         176.5
SAC III
Stages of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation            72.8                         176.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                 13.8                          33.9
Supervision                           24.9                          50.1
ICR                                   6.0
|Total                                  117.5                          260
Missions for the three SACs were combined at the various stages.
28



Annex 4. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         SU
Sector Policies                        SU
Physical                               NA
Financial                              SU
Institutional Development              SU
Environmental                          NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                SU
Gender                           I
Other (Please specify)           NA
Private sector development             SU
Public sector management               SU
Other (Please specify)                 NA
29



Annex 5. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                       Rating
Lending                                    S
Supervision                                S
Overall                                    S
6.2 Borrowerperformdnce                    Rating
Preparation                                S
Government implementation performance      S
Implementation agency performance          S
Overall                                    S
30



Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
There was a broad consensus among the representatives of the civil society on the progress that
has been achieved in the country as a result of the adjustment operations. This was expressed at
the June 1999 workshop (see Annex 7) and in discussions during the ICR mission with labor
union and the business association members. They welcomed the opportunity to evaluate the
reform program, and made a number of recommendations for the preparation of a new program.
The business association indicated that governance and the dialogue between the Government
and the private sector had improved. On the other hand, it was emphasized that the tax burden
on the formal sector was excessive, and the fight against fraud was too timid. They also
mentioned the constraints related to poor infrastructure, the shortcomings of the judicial system,
and an inadequate training system, not geared to employment. The labor unions acknowledged
that the adjustment program had some positive results, including the regular payment of wages
and the recruitment of additional staff in the education and health sectors. They also indicated
that, contrary to their fears, the firms, which had been privatized, had not shed labor. On the
other hand, they complained that the purchasing power of their wages had seriously declined
over the period. They regretted that there was no improvement in the management of the social
security and retirement agencies. One of the unions also emphasized that corruption was
rampant, and the privatization process had benefited only a few individuals. The NGO group
made the same observations concerning the regular payment of wages, and the decline in
purchasing power as above. They regretted that not enough precautions had been taken in
implementing the divestiture program. They deplored that there was not enough dialogue
between the Government and the civil society for the preparation and monitoring of the
adjustment program.
31



Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The workshop held in June 1999 was attended by a large number of representatives from civil
society, including businesses, labor unions and NGOs, as well as the donor community. The
results have been outlined in a 50-page report and a 17-page summary (available in French) . The
report reviews the achievements of the program objectives: macroeconomic and sectoral reforms.
It analyzes the economic situation: macroeconomic development including public finance,
monetary sector, structural reforms, state enterprise divestiture; private sector development;
public administration reform; social programs, including education, health, AIDS prevention,
social affairs, rural development, transportation, demobilization and reintegration of the military.
There is a review of the monitoring structures and future actions, and partners' assessment of
achievements, including the business association, labor unions, and NGOs.
Conclusions
For the first time the seminar provided an opportunity to gather civil society, donors and the
Government to assess the Structural Adjustment Program. The open discussions revealed a
broadly shared opinion that the economic and structural reforms have been satisfactory and the
results have contributed to restoring stability and social peace in the country.
At the macroeconomic level for the first time positive achievements have been apparent: the
primary and secondary sectors have benefited from restructuring in GDP; per capita income has
almost doubled, inflation has been curbed and expenditures have been reallocated to the rural
populations.
The public finance reforms have brought about increase in revenues and control over public
expenditures. Civil servant salaries have been paid regularly. Foreign debt arrears have been
cleared, however, domestic debt arrears are still to be addressed. Improvements in foreign trade
balance were noticeable when in 1995 for the first time there was surplus due to the simultaneous
increase of both the export volumes of cotton and world cotton prices.
Important structural reforms have been introduced and are being implemented. Private sector
reform has been stimulated by adopting the respective legislature and regulations, and the
ratification of the OHADA treaty. Social programs have contributed to improving social
conditions especially in the priority sectors: health, education and infrastructure.  The
commitment to reform has been apparent throughout the duration of the program. The
establishment of the control and monitoring institutions has contributed to the success and the
follow up of activities.
Throughout the discussions, participants emphasized the problems associated with the lack of
capacity to finance the national economy and fight poverty, as well as their concern on how to
achieve sustainable growth to move forward and improve the wellbeing of the population. The
government's efforts in managing the structural reforms under the program were appreciated.
While the Government recognizes the achievements, it acknowledges that they are fragile and
need to be reinforced. The deficiencies that were pointed out and the comments made by the
donors will be helpful in making corrections and reorient future activities under a new structural
32



adjustment program. All agreed that Chad has to build up on the achievements scored so far in
order to generate a sustainable development.
The labor unions appreciate the fact that the Program has allowed the regular payment of
salaries. The Parent-Teacher Association was pleased that the classes through out the school
years were held regularly. However, the labor unions were of the opinion that the structural
adjustment program has not brought about reduction of poverty in the country and drew a rather
somber picture. They felt that the priority sectors have not received the necessary attention. The
financing for agriculture was very little, education and health had not received sufficient funds
either. They had several proposals for the government including, better financing for agriculture,
and the social sectors; setting up funds for capacity building and promotion of civil society,
establishing a national committee for social dialog and a tripartite commission for follow up of
the structural reform.
The business representatives expressed their concerns regarding strengthening of the
administration and the judiciary apparatus; improving business conditions, and ensuring good
governance. In their view, some of the tax measures that were introduced have put a heavy
burden on the private sector and have hindered the growth of enterprises. On the other hand the
informal sector evades taxation and the government should take measures to prevent such
activities. Deepening the dialog with the government is seen as desirable along with stronger
judicial system that would ensure the legal protection of enterprises.
The representative of the CELIAF NGO (Association of Women' Organizations) suggested the
establishment of a monitoring unit for follow up of the sectoral programs and wanted to see civil
society represented at the next Structural Adjustment Program negotiations.
33



Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Aide Memoire of the ICR mission, December 5 to 11, 1999
2.    Report from the workshop held on June 14-15, 1999 in N'Djamena (available in French)
3.    Summary of the June 1999 workshop discussions (available in French)
34



