Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N030 CD
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association
Dated July 3, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N030 CD
INTERIM FUND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter, dated June 5, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Administrator in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Administrator has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making an 
Interim Fund Credit in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit 
Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement”, “Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit 
Account”, respectively; 
(c)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
“'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Interim 
Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Interim Fund Credit 
is made.”;
(d)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in  Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996, as determined by the 
Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit 
was approved 
pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution”; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(f)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement.”;
(g)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions.”;
(h)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(i)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(j)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Administrator, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Administrator a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Interim 
Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of 
Page  3
their  respective obligations under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and 
the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.”; and
(k)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Administrator the first request for withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account, 
and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. All withdrawals from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Deposit Account in support of the 
Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time 
that any proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure excluded pursuant to the provisions of said Schedule 1, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, (i) deposit into the 
deposit account referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Administrator. Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request 
shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  4
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2007 and ending January 15, 
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or 
more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest rate at an 
annual rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Administrator on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Interim Fund Credit which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Administrator's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
Page  5
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(b)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Administrator's request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
deposit account and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances,
  de l’Economie, du Plan et
  de l’Aménagement du Territoire
B.P. 144
N’Djaména
Republic of Chad
Telex:
52 57 KD
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Saleh Ahmat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ David Berk
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank, the Association 
or the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank, the 
Association or the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to finance under 
another credit or a loan; 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Administrator by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   --
Alcoholic beverages
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
Page  7
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   --
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
   --
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including
set gems)
971
   --
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank, or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
