Report No. PIC2555
Project Name             India-Reproductive and Child Health (@)
Region                   South Asia
Sector                   Targeted Health
Project ID               INPA10531
Borrower                 India, acting by its President
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
Government of India
Beneficiary              Government of India
Date this PID Prepared March 12, 1997
Appraisal Date           February, 1997
Projected Board Date     May, 1997
1.      Project Objectives. The Government of India (GOI) proposes to
implement a nationwide Reproductive and Child Health Program (RCH)
through its Family Welfare Program (FWP) to be financed by GOI as
well as several External Agencies. This project represents the
World Bank's financing support for the RCH Program. The proposed
project would assist GOI to improve the performance of its FWP in
reducing maternal and infant mortality and morbidity, and unwanted
fertility, thereby eventually contributing to stabilization of
population growth. The specific objectives of the project would be
to: (a) improve management performance by nationwide implementation
of policy change referred to as the "target-free approach" (see 1/), and
institutional strengthening for timely, coordinated utilization of
project resources; (b) improve the quality, coverage and
effectiveness of the FW services; (c) progressively expand the
scope and content of existing FW services to include more elements
of a defined essential package of reproductive and child health
(RCH) services (see 2/), and (d) in selected disadvantaged districts and
cities, expand access by strengthening FW infrastructure while
improving its quality.
2.      Project Approach. The project is proposed to the first of two
overlapping 5 year operations (RCH 1 and RCH 2) that would provide
financing support for the FWP over an estimated eight year period.
It is proposed that at the end of 24 months of RCH 1, a mid-term
evaluation would be implemented. Lessons learnt would be used to
(a) if necessary, modify the design of the remaining portion of RCH
1, and also (b) form the basis for appraisal of RCH 2.
3.      Project Description. The project would be nationwide, and
would include three major components:
3.1.    Improving Management performance through (a) decentralized
planning and modified monitoring system, (b) institutional
strengthening, and (c) RCH research for management. In the sub-
component on decentralized planning and modified monitoring system,



the project would finance: (i) development of capacity at district
and sub-district levels for more responsive activity planning based
on assessment of local needs in all districts in the country, and
(ii) rapid surveys of clients and communities and assessments of
service quality. In the sub-component procurement and technical
support, the project would finance: (i) agencies to provide
procurement support at state and national level, and (ii)
institutions, including NGOs, to provide technical support in areas
such as training, IEC, rapid surveys, and program monitoring and
evaluation at national and state levels. In the sub-component on
enhanced program management capacity, the project would finance:
consultants and additional staff at national, state and district
levels for program monitoring, supervision and trouble shooting,
and to provide focused attention for program planning and
implementation in weaker states. In the sub-component on RCH
research for management, the project would finance studies
particularly to evaluate new approaches, and workshops and
publications to promote the dissemination of research findings and
utilization of research in policy and program management.
3.2.    Improving quality, coverage and effectiveness of an Essential
package for reproductive and child health. The project would
finance (a) training; (b) IEC and (c) upgrading of service
delivery. Training and IEC would be financed in all districts
nationwide that are not receiving similar support for these
activities from any other project. Service delivery would be
progressively upgraded, starting with a few blocks in each
district. Districts have been broadly categorized into three
categories (A, B, and C) according to projected needs. Differential
packages of inputs have been designed by MOHFW to meet the
differing needs of A, B, and C category districts. The packages
would include drugs, medical equipment, limited numbers of selected
categories of contractual staff who have critical clinical skills,
minor civil works. States and districts would prepare detailed
implementation plans and annual work programs to coherently
operationalize the training, IEC and upgrading of service delivery
and align the services to the specific needs of local communities.
A few districts would experimentally introduce schemes for referral
transport, use of community volunteers, contracting of private
sector facilities to provide essential services and provision of
services through the Tribal Welfare departments.
3.3.    Improving access in specially disadvantaged districts and
cities. The project would focus additional investments in 24
districts and cities where health and social indicators are much
below the state's average. Such additional investments would
finance strengthening infrastructure (including civil works,
vehicles and additional contractual staff), community mobilization,
implementation of innovative participatory approaches such as
special schemes for community workers, NGOs and increased mobility
for referrals and for service delivery staff.
4.      Project financing. With contingencies, this project cost
would be on the order of $300 million. IDA would finance
approximately 85w, or about $247 million; the balance would be
-2 -



financed by the Government of India. The cost and financing figures
are tentative at this time.
5.      Program Implementation. The Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare, Government of India would be responsible for
implementation of the RCH Program through the State Departments of
Health and Family Welfare who supervise the District Family Welfare
Bureaux (or, in some states, the Zilla Parishads) that would be the
executing agencies.
6.      Program Objective Categories, Poverty and gender aspects. The
FWP is aimed at poor and underprivileged women and children in
rural and urban poverty areas. The project, through the FWP, would
increase access to wider range of good quality health care for
larger numbers of such beneficiaries, and would facilitate them to
adopt healthier behavior. Indigenous Populations. - In several
states, tribal populations have especially poor health status
indicators. This project would place them in high priority
categories for district specific reproductive health care action
plans. The guidelines that have been developed by MOHFW reflect
this priority. Project development and implementation have taken
full account of Operational Directive 4.10.
7.      Environmental Aspects.   The proposed project would not raise
any environmental concerns. Attention would be given to the
adequate disposal of medical wastes where relevant.
1/ The "target free approach" is a management policy shift. It removes
management incentives that have placed excessive focus on achieving annual
method-specific contraceptive acceptor targets, and introduces a "bottom-up"
need-based management approach focusing on provision of good quality care
to meet fertility and health needs at different stages of the life cycle
such as adolescence, birth spacing and limitation together with healthy
sexual activity, and pregnancy and child birth.
2/ A package of essential RCH services has been defined by GOI for
(a) prevention and management of unwanted fertility, (b) management of
pregnancy and childbirth, (c) child survival (including immunization,
diarroeal and acute respiratory illness, and newborn care), and (d)
reproductive tract infections.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
-3 -



