Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N018 IN
Interim Fund  
Development Credit Agreement
(Reproductive and Child Health Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
Interim Trust Fund Established with Funds Contributed by 
Certain Members of the International Development Association 
Pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors 
of International Development Association
Dated July 30, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N018 IN 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1997, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the Interim Trust Fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Project will be carried out jointly by the Borrower and the Project 
States (as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project States a part of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from each of the Project States certain 
undertakings in respect of the carrying out of their respective portions of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.” 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
Page  3
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“District” means an administrative unit or a municipal corporation within 
a Project State (as hereinafter defined), including any successors thereto; 
(b)
“IEC” means information, education and communication; 
(c)
“Letter of Undertaking” means the Letter of Undertaking to be executed 
and furnished to the Borrower by each of the Project States (as hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement; 
(d)
“Project State” means any State or Union Territory of the Borrower, 
including any successor or successors thereto, which participates in the Project and 
from which the Borrower has obtained a Letter of Undertaking;  
(e)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(f)
“Sub-Projects” means the specific development projects to be carried out 
under Part B of the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-nine million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 179,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
Page  4
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2007, and ending May 1, 
2032. Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2017 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  5
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out, or cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, family welfare and 
public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon any provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall cause each Project State to carry out its respective portion of the Project in 
accordance with a Letter of Undertaking satisfactory to the Associationdministrator, 
to be executed and furnished to the Borrower and the Association by each Project 
State, and the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limiting any of its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower: (i) shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
each Project State to perform the obligations of such Project State set forth in this 
Agreement and in its Letter of Undertaking; and (ii) shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause each Project State to carry out, the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(e)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
available to each Project State for such parts of the Project as are to be carried out 
by such Project State in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for 
development assistance to the States or Union Territories, as the case may be.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the ProjectBorrower’s reproductive 
and child health program; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower and the Project States responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have and cause the Project States to have the records and accounts 
referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Administrator, as soon as 
available, 
but in any case not later than [six]six months after the end 
of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Letter of Undertaking. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which  shall make it 
improbable that any Project State will be able to perform its obligations under its 
respective Letter of Undertaking. 
(c)
The Borrower shall have waived or failed to enforce any of the provisions 
of any Letter of Undertaking. 
(d)
Any Letter of Undertaking shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated 
or repealed without the prior approval of the Administratorso as to adversely affect 
the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (c) and (b) the event 
specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
Any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier. 
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 \0cIN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties 
hereto, acting through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this 
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United 
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
Page  8
By  /s/  Sudhakar Rao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund Established with Funds 
Contributed 
by Certain Members of the International Development 
Association Pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of International Development 
Association
By  /s/  Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
  Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   26,500,000
90%
(2)
Vehicles, furniture
   16,100,000
100% of foreign
equipment and other
expenditures, 100%
goods
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost), 
and 
80% of local 
expendi-
tures 
for other items 
procured locally
(3)
Drugs
   37,850,000
90%
(4)
Consultants’ services,
   24,600,000
90%
(4)
Consultants’ services,
   30,900,000
100%
including IEC
(5)
Training and
   24,700,000
100%
workshops
(6)
Surveys and studies
    4,400,000
100%
(7)
Pilot Program for referral       900,000
90%
transport
(8)
Incremental salaries and
   35,800,000
80% through
operating expenses
September 30, 1999,
operating expenses
and 25% thereafter
(9)
Unallocated
   15,600,000
  ___________
Page  9
TOTAL
  179,500,000
  ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental salaries and operating expenses” means the cost of 
salaries, fees and honoraria paid in respect of posts created for the purposes of the 
Project, including contractual services, reporting fees for traditional birth 
attendants, mothers’ meetings, disposable delivery kits, consumables, fuel and 
handling charges to States and Medical on or after September 30, 1996, and the cost of 
hiring vehicles and operation and maintenance of the vehicles and equipment purchased 
under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 7,200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (4), (5), (6) and 
(8), on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 
30, 1996; and
(b)
expenditures incurred in, or by, any Project State unless that Project 
State has executed a Letter of Undertaking satisfactory to the Administrator. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, and 
works and services under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
vehicles under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each and services under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent eachequivalent for employment of firms and 
$50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants, respectively, and 
training, workshops, surveys and studies, referral transport and incremental salaries 
and operating expenses, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in reducing maternal 
and infant mortality and morbidity, and unwanted fertility, thereby contributing to 
stabilization of population growth, through assistance to the Borrower’s Family 
Welfare Program to (a) improve management performance by nationwide implementation of 
the “target-freeparticipatory approach” to reproductive and child healthplanning 
approach” and institutional strengthening; (b) improve the quality, coverage and 
effectiveness of existing family welfare services; (c) progressively expand the scope 
and content of existing family welfare services to include more elements of a defined 
package of essential reproductive and child health services; and (d) in selected 
disadvantaged Districts, increase access to reproductive and child health services by 
strengthening the existing family welfare infrastructure while improving its quality.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Nationwide Component 
1.
Improving Management Performance
a.
Decentralized Planning and Modified Monitoring System: increasing the 
Page  10
coverage and utilization of reproductive and child health services nationwide through 
the provision of training and technical support for more responsive decentralized 
activity planning based on local data made available through expansion of the existing 
Management Information System (MIS) to include monitoring of service quality through 
regular client and community polls, technical assessment of service delivery 
facilities and provider competence, and rapid assessments of community and 
Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) perceptions. perceptions, and rapid surveys to 
assess Project processes and outcomes.
b.
Institutional Strengthening: improving the effectiveness and efficiency 
of the Borrower’s family welfare program through:
(1)
Procurement and Technical Support: establishing Procurement Support 
Agencies (PSAs) to strengthen national and State-level capacity for procurement of 
goods and services; and the provision of the services of specialized technical 
institutions and consultants for training, information, education and communication 
(IEC), Project monitoring, management assistance, civil works supervision and surveys 
and studies;
(2)
Reproductive and Child Health Research for ManagementOperations Research 
in Reproductive and Child Health: establishing a mechanism for identifying research 
priorities, disseminating research results and promoting the use of research findings 
in policy and program management; and research, studies, workshops and publications in 
respect of reproductive and child health programs; and
(3)
Enhanced Program Management Capacity: strengthening the Ministry of 
Health and Family Welfare and approximately six, selected state-level Family Welfare 
Departments and approximately 64 District level Family Welfare Bureauoffices through 
provision of salaries for incremental staff and consultant services for strengthening 
planning, monitoring and supervision capacity at the national, state and District 
levels, and support of an advisory mechanism at the national level for the appraisal 
of District Sub-Projects. 
2.
Improved Quality, Coverage and Effectiveness
a.
Essential Package of Reproductive and Child Health Services: improving 
the quality, utilization and scope of reproductive and child health services, through: 
(1)
Training: the upgrading and rental of training facilities and, the 
provision of training and related materials and equipment, salaries for core teams of 
trainers, and trainee and trainer allowances tofor health and family welfare workers 
at the community, sub-center, primary health center and first-referral unit levels, 
and for block and District-level managerall levels;
(2)
Information, Education and Communication (IEC): developing IEC plans at 
the District level, through the provision of consultant services and resources for 
needs assessments, materials development and media support, training, communication 
activities by NGOs, private parties and community groups and evaluations of District 
level communications strategies; and
(3)
Upgrading Service Delivery: renovating health facilities and provision of 
equipment and drugs, contractual services and, reporting fees for traditional birth 
attendants, referral funds for reproductive and child health activities and support to 
selected NGOs and private sector schemes to increase access to  reproductive and child 
health services as specified in relevant State Project Implementation Plans (SPIPs) or 
annual work plans.
Part B:
Local Capacity Enhancement
The financing of specific development projects in approximately 24 Districts to 
support health infrastructure expansion, additional mobility for health workers and 
innovative approaches to health care delivery through NGOs and community workers, such 
financing to include: 
1.
refurbishing and upgrading existing health facilities and constructing new 
health facilities; 
Page  11
2.
training, and carrying out IEC and social marketing activities for 
contraceptives and other reproductive and child health-related products; 
3.
support to selected NGO schemes for increasing community involvement and access 
to reproductive and child health services; 
4.
provision of honoraria for community health workers and private medical 
practitioners, and support for emergency transport and women’s health committee work; 
and 
5.
provision of consultant and contractual services, vehicles, furniture, medical 
and non-medical equipment and materials, drugs, supplies and rentals of facilities.
**
* 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996” (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost more than $25,000 equivalent per contract, and drugs and 
medical and non-medical equipment, furniture, goods and materials estimated to cost 
$300,000 equivalent or less per contract, and books and printing services estimated to 
cost $50,000 equivalent or more but less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Drugs and medical and non-medical equipment, furniture, goods and materials 
estimated to cost $2550,000 equivalent or less per contract, books and printing 
services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and vehicles 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $18,110,000 equivalent, may:
Page  12
(a)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(b)
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,000,000 equivalent; or
(c)
with the Administrator’s prior agreement and as a last resort, be carried 
out by force account in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) the first three contracts for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000 or more each to be entered into by each Project State, (b) the 
first three contracts for goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent each to 
be entered into by each Project State, (c) each contract for works estimated to cost 
more than $300,000 equivalent, (d) each contract for medical equipment, drugs and 
goods estimated to cost more than $300,000 equivalent, and (e) each contract for 
vehicles estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of NGOs and consultants for services for training, IEC and surveys and 
studies, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
Page  13
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for publicity, training and workshops may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for printing and publishing, surveys and research activitiestraining 
and validation workshops which are estimated to cost $15,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, professional services 
contracts for services including training and IEC, and services for surveys and 
research activities and NGO contracts in areas with a limited NGO presence which are 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and NGO contracts in areas 
with a limited NGO presence, may, with the Bank', may, with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services for referral transport and services to be provided by health 
specialists and medical personnel shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Administrator. 
6.
Individual Consultants
Services for project management and civil works supervision shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
BankAdministrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Associationdministrator for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 12 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  14
apply. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Project Management Structure 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain its existing Reproductive and Child Health 
Inter-ministerial Steering Committee, Reproductive and Child Health Task Force (with 
membership from external agencies participating in the reproductive and child health 
program), and Reproductive and Child Health Project Management Committee throughout 
the period of Project implementation, to coordinate and oversee the Project at the 
national level.  The membership and staffing of each committee shall be satisfactory 
No substantial change in the composition and stature of such Committees and Task Force 
shall be made without the prior approval of the Administrator. Participatory Planning 
Manual and District Training Plan 
2.
The Borrower shall implement its family welfare program in accordance with the 
principles enunciated in the Participatory Planning Manual and the District Training 
Plan (May 1996), as these may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Administrator. 
Project Implementation Plans, Part A of the Project (Nationwide Component) 
3.
The Borrower shall implement its family welfare program in accordance with its 
Project Proposal and National Project Implementation Plan dated April 1997, and shall 
carry out Part A of the Project (Nationwide Component) in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan, Nationwide Component (NPIP) agreed with the Administrator.  The 
Borrower shall ensure that each Project State carries out its activities under Part A 
of the Project in accordance with its respective State Project Implementation Plan 
(SPIP) agreed with the Borrower and the Administrator and included in the NPIP.
Project Implementation Plans, Part B of the Project (Local Capacity Enhancement)
4.
The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project (Local Capacity Enhancement) 
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, Local Capacity Enhancement 
(LCE-PIP) agreed with the Administrator.\02  The Borrower shall ensure that each of the 
Project States participating in Part B of the Project shall carry out its activities 
under Part B of the Project in accordance with its respective Sub-Project -Project 
Implementation Plan (SP-PIP) agreed with the Borrower and the Administrator and 
included in the LCE-PIP.  The Borrower shall further ensure that such SP-PIPs shall 
include provisions obligating each such Project State to:
(a)
ensure that at least 75% of sanctioned auxiliary nurse-midwives serving 
sub-centers and primary health centers are in position prior to the start of the 
relevant Sub-Project in such Project State, and that a further 10% of such posts will 
be filled within two years;  and 
(b)
maintain at a minimum its fiscal year 1994-95 level of budgetary 
allocation for drugs and materials for primary health centers and District and 
subdistrict hospitals through the duration of the Project; and
(c)
stop the payment of motivator fees to non-health personnel. Letters of 
Page  15
Undertaking
5.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, each Letter of Undertaking 
shall include, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a)
Each Project State shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to that end, it shall agree 
to undertake its portion of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate health and family welfare practices, and to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
therefor.
(b)
Each Project State shall agree to assume all the obligations applicable 
or relevant to the Project States under this Agreement and to take all actions 
necessary to undertake its portion of the Project. Each Project State shall further 
agree to carry out its portion of the Project as follows:
(1)
Each Project State shall (i) carry out activities under the Project in 
accordance with its SPIP agreed with the Borrower and forming part of the NPIP, and 
shall(ii) carry out civil works under the Project in accordance with the technical 
manual (as applicable) developed by the Borrower, as such manual may be revised from 
time to time in manual\02 developed by the Borrower during preparation of the 
Projectagreement with the Administrator; and
(2)
Each Project State shall appoint key additional staff according to a 
schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrator.
(c)
Each Project State shall undertake to procure the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit under this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)
Each Project State shall agree that the Borrower or the Administrator  
may from time to time inspect the goods, works and services under the Project 
including all records and documents relating thereto.
(e)
Each Project State shall agree to assume and undertake the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) of the General Conditions in respect of its Letter of 
Undertaking and its portion of the Project.
(f)
Each Project State shall agree to assume and undertake to comply or 
assist the Borrower in complying with the financial covenants prescribed by Article IV 
of this Agreement.
(g)
Each Project State shall agree that the Borrower may suspend or terminate 
its right to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit made available under this 
Agreement upon its failure to perform any obligations under its Letter of Undertaking 
or upon notice by the Administrator that it intends to exercise its remedies under 
Article V of this Agreement.
(h)
Each Project State shall agree promptly to inform the Borrower and the 
Administrator of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of its portion of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Interim Fund Credit under this Agreement, or the performance of its obligations under 
its Letter of Undertaking.
(i)
Each Project State shall agree that it shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either the Borrower or the Administrator, (i) exchange views with the 
Borrower and/or the Administrator (through the Borrower) with regard to the progress 
of carrying out activities under its portion of the Project, its performance under its 
Letter of Undertaking and other matters relating to the purposes of the Interim Fund 
Credit under this Agreement, and (ii) furnish all such information related thereto as 
may reasonably be required by the Borrower to fulfill its supervision, monitoring and 
reporting obligations to the Administrator.  Each Project State shall also agree to 
afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives of the Administrator to 
Page  16
Administrator. visit any part of its territory for purposes related to the Project.
(j)
Each Project State shall agree to maintain its Project Management/ 
Steering/Coordinating Committee to oversee Project activities within such Project 
State and to coordinate Project activities with the Borrower’s Inter-ministerial 
Steering Committee and Project Management Committee. The membership and staffing of 
each such Project Coordinating Committee shall No substantial change shall be made in 
the composition and be acceptable tostature of such Committees without prior agreement 
of the Borrower and the Administrator.
(k)
Except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, each 
Project State shall agree either to (i) utilize the services of the national-level 
Procurement Support Agency (PSA) establishngaged under Part A1(b)(1) of the Project, 
or to establish; (ii) engage a State-level Procurement Support Agency with terms of 
reference, resources and staff satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrator, for 
procuring the goods, work; or (iii) in the case of those Project States with existing 
procurement units acceptable to the Borrower and Administrator, utilize such existing 
procurement units, for procuring the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project.
(l)
Each Project State shall agree to establish a mechanism acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Administrator for the transfer of funds from the State level to the 
project implementing agencies at District or institutional levels. Without limitation 
upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, each Project State shall agree 
to openestablish and maintain a separate Project account in each District, Zilla 
Parishad or institution receiving Interim Fund Credit proceeds, and each Project State 
shall agree to prepare monthly consolidated state expenditure reports in respect of 
all such Project accounts.  Budgetary Allocations 6.
[Except as the Administrator may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall during each of fiscal years 1997-2001, without 
utilizing for such purpose the proceeds of any credit extended to the Borrower by the 
International Development Association or the Administrator, maintain in real terms the 
fiscal year 1995-96 levels of expenditures for vaccines and drug kits previously 
financed under the national Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Program as agreed to 
with the International Development Association, and shall maintain at the fiscal year 
1997 level the ratio of national family welfare programme expenditures to total 
[central sector plan] expenditures, without utilizing for such purpose the proceeds of 
any credit, grant or loan extended to the Borrower by any external source.
Resources
6.
The Borrower shall allocate, and shall cause the Project States to allocate, 
each year sufficient resources for the Borrower’s childhood immunization program. 
Removal of Method-Specific Contraceptive Targets 
7.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain its 
policyapproach of removal of method-specific contraceptive targets for family welfare 
workers and non-health personnel. 
Use of Agreed Implementation Criteria 
8.
All Sub-Projects proposed for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit shall be assessed and recommended for such financing on the basis of criteria 
agreed with the Administrator, and the work programs and budgets for the SPIPs and for 
all Sub-Projects shall be reviewed and approved by the Borrower in accordance with 
criteria agreed with the Administrator
Drugs and Medical Equipment 
9.
The Borrower shall ensure that only the drugs and medical equipment appearing on 
the lists agreed with the Administrator shall be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit. The Borrower shall obtain the prior consent of the Administrator 
to purchase out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit any drugs and medical 
equipment otherwise eligible for financing under the Interim Fund Credit but not 
appearing on such lists.
Implementation of Technical Assessments 
Page  17
10.
The Borrower shall ensure that the technical assessments of service quality, 
client polls, community surveys and studies conducted annually under Part A(1)(a) of 
the Project are implemented to the satisfaction of the Administrator, and shall 
provide periodic reports on such implementation to the Administrator. 
Independent Audit of Essential Obstetric Drugsssessment of Essential Obstetric Drugs 
Utilization 
11.
The Borrower shall during the second and fourth years of Project implementation] 
cause to be carried out, by an independent auditing agency acceptable to the 
Administrator and engaged under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, 
in a sampling of primary health centers and first referral units in the Project 
States, an audissessment of essential obstetric drug procurement, storage and 
utilization.  The Borrower shall promptly provide the report of each such 
audissessment to the Administrator. 
Tribal Peoples 
12.
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project State to, implement the Project 
in any tribal areas (as designated by such Project State in accordance with applicable 
laws) in accordance with procedures and delivery strategies acceptable to the 
Administrator.  To this end, each Project State shall ensure that all investments 
under the Project in tribal areas are appraised and implemented in accordance with a 
plan, satisfactory to the Administrator, for the delivery of Project benefits to 
tribal peoples.
Coordination of Support for Reproductive and Child Health Program 
13.
The Borrower shall, in conjunction with each Project State, coordinate Project 
activities with the activities provided with the support of other external aid 
agencies in respect of the reproductive and child health program in each such Project 
State, in order to ensure against duplication of efforts and resources in respect of 
medical equipment, drugs, facilities upgrading and contractual staff. 
Staffing of Family Welfare Departments 
14.
 The Borrower shall appoint, and shall cause the Project States to appoint, 
additional staff and consultants to the family welfare departments at the national, 
State and District levels for program management and technical support in accordance 
with the schedule agreed with the Administrator.\02 The qualifications and experience of 
such additional staff and  consultants shall be satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
tAdministrator. The staffing levels agreed with the Administrator shall be maintained 
throughout the period of Project implementation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
15.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators\02 satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about December 31, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  18
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
[$10,000,000]$12,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for the Project to be 
withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 46,000,000. 
2.
(a)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for an 
eligible expenditure in an amount to or less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 shall 
be made exclusively out of the Special Account.  The Association may from time to 
time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the 
preceding sentence.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Page  19
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
