DFmwa of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4256-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 10.6 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
April 25, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni rial (YR1)
Calendar year 1985                       March 1986
$1  =  YRIs 6.41                       $1 =  YRls 7.25
TRl 1  =  $0.16                        YRl 1 =  $0.14
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bpd                              =         barrels per day
TCF                              =         trillion cubic feet
t/y                              =         tons per year
1 cubic meter (CM)               =         35.3 cubic feet (CF)
1 kilometer (km)                 =         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (kM2)         =         0.39 square mile
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)   =          10.2 million kilo calories
1 barrel (bbl)                   =         42 U.S. gallons
1 barrel (bbl)                   =         0.159 cubic meter
1 barrel of 0.85 specific
gravity crude oil             =         0.135 tons
1 kilo watt-hour (Kwh)           =         1 thousand watts
1 Giga watt-hour (GWh)           =         10' watt-hour
1 megawatt (MW)                  =         1 million watts
ABBREVIATIONS
GSB         Geological Survey Board
LPG         Liquified Petroleum Gas
MIS         Management Information System
MOMR        Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources
RA          Resident Advisor
SCOMR       Supreme Council for Oil and Mineral Resources
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
YEPCO       Yemen Exploration Production Company
YGEC        Yemen General Electricity Corporation
YHOC        Yemen Hunt Oil Company
YOMINCO     Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation
YPC         Yemen Petroleum Company



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights 10.6 million (about US$12 million
equivalent).
Ter m:               Standard.
Proiect Description: The main objectives of the proposed project are to help
strengthen the newly created Ministry of Oil and Mineral
Resources (MOMR) and to help develop its institutional
capacity to manage YAR's recently discovered oil and gas
resources. The project would include technical
assistance to be provided by a group of seven resident
advisors, including one to assist in management and
policy matters and others specializing in the areas of
exploration/production, refining/transportation/
distribution, accounting/auditing, procurement/costing,
legal, and training. It would also include consulting
services to carry out an organization study of the
petroleum sector, a review of the field development
plan, a gas utilization study, project management
services and preinvestment studies, an accounting study,
an environmental protection study, and other consultancy
services, as required. The project would also assist in
the establishment of a management information system of
accounting and a data base for exploration and
production, and would provide for local and overseas
training.
Benefits and Risks:  The major benefit accruing from the project would be an
improvement in the local capability for developing and
utilizing domestic petroleum resources. The project
would enable NOMR to play a more dynamic role in
coordinating the development of YAR's energy resources
and in attracting foreign capital. The main risks to
the project are those normally arising for a project of
this nature, including finding and retaining suitably
qualified national staff, especially in the face of
competition from the private sector. These risks would
be minimized through measures agreed with the Government
to assign suitably qualified nationals to work with and
be trained by expatriates from the beginning of project
implementation and to ensure that training of nationals
receives priority during project execution. The
proposed organization study would recommend a staffing
structure and design specific measures to enable MOMR to
attract and retain suitable personnel.
This document has a resicted ditibution and nay be usd by reipent only in the peufoomance
of thdr ofilk dutibi Its contents may notoherwe be dismed witut World Bank athioreir



- ii-
Project Costs 1/
Local      Foreign       Total
$ million
A. Resident Advisors
Consultants                                  0.6           3.4        4.0
Equipment and Vehicles                       0.2           0.1        0.3
B. Studies and Consulting Services
Organization                                 0.1           0.3        0.4
Field Development                            0.1           0.7        0.8
Gas Utilization                              0.1           0.4        0.5
Project Mgt. & other Consultancy
Services                                   0.6           2.8        3.4
Environmental Protection                      -            0.2        0.2
Accounting                                   0.3           0.5        0.8
C.   Management Information System
Accounting/Computer Hardware and Software  0.3             0.7        1.0
Exploration & Production Data Base           0.1           0.2        0.3
D.    Training                                     0.3           0.9         1.2
Base Cost                    2.7          10.2        12.9
Contingencies
Physical                                       0.3           1.0        1.3
Expected price increase                        0.7           2.1        2.8
Subtotal                     1.0           3.1         4.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                 3.7          13.3        17.0
Financing Plan:                                              $ millions
IDA                                            1.1          10.9       12.0
USAID                                          0.5           1.6        2.1
Netherlands                                    0.3           0.8        1.1
Government                                     1.8            -         1.8
Total                                       3.7          13.3       17.0
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
IDA FY                       1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
$ million
Annual                     0.70    3.46    3.86    2.10    1.26    0.62
Cumulative                 0.70    4.16    8.02   10.12   11.38   12.00
Estimated Completion Date:  June 30, 1991
Rate of Return:              Not applicable
Appraisal Report:            None
-V   Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A TECHMICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 10.6 million (approximately US$12.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Technical Assistance Project to the
Petroleum Sector. The United States Agency of International Development
(USAID) and the Kingdom of the Netherlands are expected to participate in the
project's financing in the amounts of $2.1 million and $1.1 million
equivalent respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY>'
2.       A report on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554-YAR) dated
January 6, 1982 and a Country Economic Memorandum (No. 5621-YAR) dated March
17, 1986 have been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are
attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state. Political integration and the build-up of
public institutions, while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have
provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private sectors.
Under the Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small scale.
4.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
,the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report (P-4244-YAR),
dated March 3, 1986, for the Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development
Project approved by the Executive Directors on March 20, 1986.



-2-
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion per year between 1977 and 1984. Largely as a result of
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly
over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1984 (World Bank Atlas
methodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed. Strong family and tribal ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes.
Recent Developments
5.       In the late seventies, a noticeable deceleration in economic growth
set in mainly because of the leveling off in the inflow of workers'
remittances. The early eighties witnessed a marked deterioration in the
macrofinancial situation, as public investment and associated recurrent
expenditures exceeded the Government's limited resources, and growing imports
resulted in a widening balance of payments deficit. This deterioration was
aggravated by the large reduction in official assistance from neighboring oil
exporting countries, caused by the decline in oil prices and the war in the
Gulf. Yet, inflation continued to be low in 1982 and 1983, mainly because
imports were cheapened by the appreciation of the Yemeni rial against most
currencies (except the US dollar to which it is pegged). But low inflation
was obtained at the cost of a sharp reduction in foreign reserves.
6.       In 1983 and 1984, the YAR economy slowed down considerably, as a
result of the Government's efforts to cool down the economy and adverse
exogenous factors, namely, the decline in external resources, the severe
earthquake that hit the Dbamar area in December 1982, and the drought that
prevailed over most of the country in 1983 and 1984, cutting the gross output
of cereals by more than half in 1983. However, increased grain imports kept
food availability at a normal level.
7.       In view of the shortage of investible resources, in 1983 the
Government started to scale down its investment targets by tightening
investment priorities, with assistance from IDA. This effort was
complemented by an endeavor to restrain recurrent expenditure growth and to
increase tax revenue. These measures resulted in a significant reduction in
the budget deficit in 1983 and 1984. Yet inflation was significantly higher
in 1984, rising to about 13 percent mainly because of the 30 percent
cumulative devaluation of the Yemeni rial. These devaluations, and the
import restriction measures taken by the Government, resulted in a large
decline in imports and a marked improvement in the balance of payments in
1984. However, the budget deficit still represented about 26 percent of GDP
in 1984 and official grants, which continued to decrease, are unlikely to
return to their previous high levels. The Government rightly intends to
continue its stabilization program and its efforts to increase domestic
resource mobilization, while maintaining the flexible exchange rate policy
adopted recently. This should help to continue to improve the external
finances and restore the competitiveness of local production, mainly in
agriculture.



8.       Oil was discovered in the eastern part of the country in 1984, and
it seems that exploitable reserves are large enough to justify exports of
crude oil starting possibly in 1988-89. In the meanwhile, the YAR Government
will face the challenge of continuing its stabilization program while
preparing for the oil era. The oil discovery could improve YAR's development
prospects, significantly, depending on the level of oil production and prices
(para. 28).
Maior Long Term Issues
9.       Increasing scarcity of water has emerged as a serious issue in YAR,
as a result of the rapid increase in household water consumption and the
development of irrigated agriculture. Recently, the drought has worsened the
situation through drastically lower recharges. The situation is particularly
serious around Sanaa where uncontrolled extraction of groundwater by farmers
has caused a large decline in the water table. A number of initiatives are,
therefore, called for to address these problems: (i) establishing a
comprehensive water resources data base; (ii) improving coordination among
the various agencies operating in the water sector; (iii) introducing
legislation to manage water use; and (iv) strengthening cost recovery
policies.
10.      Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and school
enrollment rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower is an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity
of the public administration to manage and implement a growing and
increasingly complex development program. Health indicators depict serious
problems that call for an adequate policy framework and substantial efforts
and resources to improve the situation.
11.      YAR's population growth rate is very high, at about 3 percent per
annum, which could affect growth of per capita income and productivity.
Also, rapid population growth would reduce agricultural land per capita to
levels characteristic of overpopulated countries, as agricultural development
is severely constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and water.
Furthermore, rapid population growth combined with an improvement in the
small (even by developing countries' standards) coverage of YAR population in
terms of social services (e.g., health, education) would imply a heavy burden
on the already stretched Government budget. These adverse consequences of
rapid population growth require that, despite possible cultural constraints,
the Government develop an appropriate policy as soon as possible.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.      Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been provided in
the form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, cam to around $3.5 billion by the end of 1984.  The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates,
Iraq, USA and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab
development funds.



13.      About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, th,.hnical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come.
14.      Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1984 was estimated at $2,398 million, of which $1,688 million
(about 44 percent of GDP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $193
million or about 11 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt
reported. The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable.
Western European countries have generally charged between 314 percent and
2-1/2 percent, while interest on USSR loans has varied from 2 to 4 percent.
Interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent.
Loan maturities range from 3 to 50 years, with an average of 20 years.
15.      Recently, commitments decreased sharply, by about 66 percent in 1983
and 44 percent in 1984, a decline that is related to the depressed oil market
and the Iran-Iraq war. Debt service amounted to $42.5 million in 1983 and
$67 million in 1984, hardly more than 5 percent of grsas foreign exchange
earnings (including workers' remittances and private transfers). However,
the debt service is projected to increase substantially over 1986-92, and its
budgetary burden could become difficult to bear, depending on the level of
oil production and export revenues. These developments indicate that YAR
would have to rely increasingly on domestic resource mobilization.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS1'
16.      This credit would be the forty-fifth to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to $443.0 million net of cancellations.2'  The main goals of
IDA's assistance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for
development; (b) to develop production and income in the dominant productive
sector, agriculture; and (c) to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA
has extended fourteen credits ($147.9 million) for agriculture, fisheries and
Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
(P-4244-YAR), dated March 3, 1986, for the Tihama V Regional
Agricultural Development Project approved by the Executive Directors on
March 20, 1986.
Zi   Including the credit for the Power IV project.



-5-
rural development; fifteen credits ($158.6 million) for infrastructure;L''
seven credits ($73.7 million) for education and training; three credits for
industry ($22.0 million); one credit for petroleum and geothermal promotion
and exploration ($2 million); a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and expand
the capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the
country's health care system and a $4.7 million credit to provide technical
assistance to strengthen the Central Planning Organization. The
International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made five investments in YAR:
(i) $2.4 million in FY78 to help finance a dairy and juice project;
(ii) $3.9 million in FY84, plus an additional equity contribution of
$0.4 million in FY85, for a dry cell battery projeot; (iii) $3.9 million
in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project; (iv) $9 million in FY86
to support the construction of an oil refinery in Marib; and (v) $2.4 million
in FY86 to help finance a citrus orchard project. Further opportunities for
IFC involvement are being explored. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. The attached map
(number IBRD 19127) indicates the location of the IDA-financed projects in
YAR.
17.      While IDA has recently been assisting the YAR Government in its
efforts to overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial
problems (para. 7), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy remains focused
on long-term development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy
issues. These include agricultural productivity; manpower development and
institutional support; exploration for energy sources an; minerals;
identification of viable industrial opportunities; and maintaining, upgrading
and expanding the physical infrastructure within the constraint of available
resources. Sector work complements both the economic work and lending
operations and serves to bridge the recommended short- and long-term measures.
18.      YAR's disbursement performance improved considerably in FY85,
although it was affected by a number of implementation problems, and it
compares favorably to the EMENA region's average. Among the recurrent
problems that are common to most countries at YAR's stage of development
are: delays in the recruitment of consultants, in the award of contracts and
in the resolution of contractual issues with contractors, and in finalizing
cofinancing arrangements. In addition, other serious project-specific
problems have also been affecting the implementation of two projects:
Fisheries Development (Cr. 1025-YAR) and Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply
(Cr. 950-YAR); these problems have been discussed with the Government and
corrective action is being taken to resolve them. The Government and IDA are
holding periodic country implementation reviews to monitor the recurrent
implementation problems more closely and to address them promptly.
19.      Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the
1V   Excluding the proposed credit for the Power IV project scheduled for
presentation to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1986.



-6-
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. A highways project has been
appraised, and an agricultural project is under preparation. Future
operations are expected in the areas of agricultuLe, energy (including oil
and gas development), education, transport and health.
20.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
to IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize its catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to over $400 million equivalent of
cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Domestic Energy Resources and Consumption
21.      Prior to the recent discovery of oil and gas by the Yemen Hunt Oil
Company (YHOC) in 1984, YAR had no domestic commercial energy resources. The
country's energy requirements were met by traditional domestic resources
(fuelwood, crop residues and animal wastes) and imported petroleum products.
In 1982, traditional sources met 60 percent of total energy consumption
(about 2.3 million toe) and the balance was met by imported products.
Approximately 3 million tons (1.35 million toe) of fuelwood have been
consumed annually, mostly by households, and thip has resulted in severe
deforestation. The resulting increased scarcity of fuelwood and, therefore,
its higher price, has encouraged substitution in favor of kerosene and
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) for cooking. In addition, the increased
economic activity since the early 1970s, coupled with increased
modernization, urbanization and a continued high population growth, has led
to a rapid increase in the import of petroleum products which has averaged
about 20 percent annually over the last decade. While growth rates in
petroleum product consumption have declined somewhat since 1980, the share of
commercial energy iu total energy consumption is expected to increase
significantly by the 1990s. The main challenge for the Government for the
remainder of the decade is to derive maximum economic benefit from the
discovery of sizeable oil and gas reserves by building up, with the
assistance of outside expertise, the requisite institutional and
administrative capabilities to address the diverse policy, planning and
investment options resulting from this important discovery.
22.      Commercial energy consumption is currently characterized by a high
percentage of gasoil (diesel) usage, which is partly due to the widespread
use of diesel fuel for small power generation units as well as for water



-7-
pumping units. Consumption in the transport sector consists mainly of diesel
oil for trucks and gasoline for cars. Fuel oil is used in power generation
and in cement manufacture. Kerosene is used for domestic cooking and
lighting. LPG consumption is increasing rapidly and is used mainly for
cooking in urban areas.
23.      Net electricity consumption increased from about 100 GWh in 1975 to
about 867 GWh in 1984. of wlaich about 33 percent was provided by the public
supply system and the balance by private producers. The growth rate of
consumption from the public supply system averaged 34 percent per annum
between 1975 and 1980 and about 24 percent per annum between 1980 and 1984.
Despite these high growth rates, there is still substantial unsatisfied
demand since this growth is relatively recent and started from a very low
base. Gross electricity consumption from the public system is forecast to
grow at an average annual rate of about 14 percent from 1985 to 1990, mainly
due to the connection of new consumers. IDA's strategy, as agreed with the
Government, for the development of the power subsector in YAR is aimed at
supporting Government efforts to: (i) expand the Yemen General Electricity
Corporation's (YGEC's) distribution system in order to meet unsatisfied
demand; (ii) develop and implement a balanced, le4st-tost investment program;
(iii) improve YGEC's management and staff capabilities; (iv) increase YGEC's
efficiency of generation, transmission and distribution; and (v) reduce
system losses and increase revenues. IDA has supported the Government with
three power distribution projects so far-' and has assisted the Government
to deal with these issues in the context of these projects. Although the
recent discovery of oil and gas has not changed the Government's strategy for
the development of the power subsector, it has added another dimension to it:
investigation of the possible use of associated and non-associated gas for
power generation. Responding to the Government's request, IDA is undertaking
as part of its economic and sector work a review of the implications of the
oil and gas discovery on YAR's economy, and of investment options and
priorities in the energy sector, including power. The draft report of the
Bank mission that undertook the study is being prepared for discussion with
the Government.
Pricing
24.      Overall, government policy for energy prices has been satisfactory.
Petroleum products have generally been priced on a cost plus basis. The
prices are approved by the Government on the basis of cost estimates (which
include the c.i.f. price, duties and taxes, handling charges, transport cost
and distribution charges) prepared by the Yemen Petroleum Company (YPC). The
resulting domestic sales prices of all petroleum products (with the exception
of LPG) have, until recently, been above their economic costs. Although
c.i.f. prices of petroleum products have decreased slightly following the
recent decline in crude oil prices, the Government increased sales prices for
all products except LPG and fuel oil in January 1986 to compensate for the
depreciation of the Yemeni rial. However, this increase appears not to have
been sufficient to fully compensate for this depreciation. The recent energy
sector mission (para. 23) has advised the Government to further adjust the
domestic sales prices. The price of gas oil and LPG is cross-subsidized
t' A fourth power distribution project is scheduled for presentation to the
Executive Directors on May 20, 1986.



-8-
mainly by gasoline. Current prices of petroleum products are presented in
Annex VII. As regards electricity, YGEC's tariff structure consists of a
simple kilowatt-hour rate applicable at all times, a fixed charge based on
the type of consumer, and a connection charge. The existing tariff structure
does not provide any incentive for large consumers to shift a part of their
consumption to off-peak hours, which would contribute to an improvement in
power generation efficiency, and IDA continues to work closely with the
Government to move in this direction. The weighted average economic cost of
supply is estimated at $0.128/kwh, compared to the existing weighted average
tariff of $0.181/kwh. The existing tariffs are therefore, on average, about
141 percent of the economic cost of supply. The tariffs are competitive in
comparison to the rates charged by private producers of power.
The Oil and Gas Subsector
25.      Exploration:  Since the early 1970s, the Government has endeavored
to maintain a level of exploration activity sufficient to assess the
potential for commercial hydrocarbon resources. However, past exploration
has been sporadic and, until mid-1984, efforts at locating commercially
exploitable petroleum resources had been unsuccessful. In July 1984, the
Yemen Hunt Oil Company (YHOC) discovered oil and gas in the Marib basin in
the eastern part of the country. Although this discovery appears to be
significant, its full extent is not yet known; the 23 wells drilled so far
indicate a substantial hydrocarbon presence. The Alif field discovery was
formally declared commercial in December 1985, with estimated recoverable
reserves of 400 million barrels of oil and 2.5 trillion cubic feet (TCF) of
associated gas. Production from this field would largely exceed the
country's energy needs. In addition, significant amounts of non-associated
gas have also been discovered in two other structures.
26.      So far, only three of the seventeen structures under the YHOC
concession have been explored. However, as a result of the recent joint
venture established between Exxon and YHOC (para. 27). it is expected that
exploration of the remaining structures will accelerate and additional
reserves of oil and gas could be discovered. Exploration in other parts of
the country is also being undertaken by other major oil companies (British
Petroleum, Total, as well as Exxon which is operating a concession
independent of its joint venture with YHOC). The eventual level of oil and
gas production from the Marib basin and other parts of the country remains
uncertain at this time and it may take up to six years before the exploration
program by the Hunt-Exxon joint venture is completed.
27.      The YHOC exploration concession is governed by the terms of the
Production Sharing Agreement between the Government of YAR and YHOC, signed
in 1981. The development of the Alif field, which includes the oil reserves
proven to date, is determined by the Participation Agreement. dated February
1984 between YHOC (75.5 percent) and a consortium of four Korean companies
(24.5 percent). In mid-December 1985, 49 percent of YHOC's interest in YAR
was sold to Exxon-Yemen. The new joint venture, called the Yemen Exploration
and Production Company (YEPCO), will be responsible for the development of
the Alif field, the constructicn of a proposed crude oil pipeline to a deep
water marine terminal, and the continuation of the exploration program within
the concession area.



-9-
Effects of the Oil and Gas Discovery
28.      (A)  Economic Impact.  It is still too early to assess the impact of
the oil discovery on the economy at large with any degree of certainty.
Tentative projections suggest that a high economic growth rate of 8 percent
per annum, similar to that of the last decade, would be achievable only in
the case of a high production rate of about 400,000 barrels per day (bpd).
This high level of production would be sustainable only if reserves, in
addition to the Alif field, are discovered and brought into production. In
the case of a lower production rate, the sustainability of a relatively
moderate economic growth (5 percent per annum) would become even more
sensitive to the level of external resources (workers' remittances and
official grants and loans) which fueled YAR's economic growth during the last
decade. Still, by providing badly needed revenues to the budgeL, the oil
discovery should ease somewhat the resource constraints that have severely
hindered YAR's most recent economic development. The country's continuing
need for more and better physical and social infrastructure argues strongly
in favor of the Government maintaining its austerity program and using
prudently the revenues to be generated by oil exports (paras 7 and 15).
29.      The gas discoveries will have an impact primarily by substituting
gas for liquid fuels. There are large amounts of gas which could provide a
lower cost source of fuel for power and industry, as well as low-cost LPG for
households and, possibly, transport. Gas supplies are likely to exceed
domestic utilization options. The project thus provides for a gas
utilization study that would investigate the possible uses of gas and make
appropriate recommendations (para. 45(c)).
30.      (B)  Sector Organization.  Prior to the discovery of oil and gas,
responsibility for marketing imported petroleum products and for mineral
exploration was vested in the Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation
(YOMINCO), a publicly owned, semi-autonomous agency. Three entities: the
Yemen Petroleum Company, (YPC), the Geological Survey Board, (GSB), and the
Yemen Salt Mining Company were incorporated into YOMINCO in 1978 as
semi-autonomous operating companies. The first two companies are involved in
the energy sector. GSB has about 160 employees, including 40 professionals.
Its principal activities cover geological surveys and exploration for
minerals, oil, water and geothermal resources. YPC is responsible for the
import, transport, storage and marketing of petroleum products in YAR. It
has about 50 professional staff, of which 10 are technical.
31.      Following the oil and gas discovery, a cabinet-level Supreme Council
for Oil and Mineral Resources (SCOMR) was established to develop policies for
the petroleum sector, monitor their implementation and conduct policy-level
negotiations with the foreign oil companies. The Minister of Oil and
Minerals (para. 32) is a member of SCOMR, which is headed by a Deputy Prime
Minister and also includes the Minister of Development and Chairman of the
Central Planning Organization, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of
Electricity and Water, and the Governor of the Central Bank. The SCOMR
operates essentially as a committee of the cabinet and its membership
reflects the key ministries in YAR that are responsible for policy-making in
the petroleum sector.



- 10 -
32.      Subsequently, in late 1985, a new Ministry of Oil and Mineral
Resources (MOMR) was established to replace YOMINCO, to implement policies
and carry out day-to-day opera' ions in the sector. The decree establishing
MOMR includes a proposed org&nizational structure, but many positions are not
filled at this time.L' Under the Minister, managerial responsiblity for
the MOMR would be shared by two Deputy Ministers, one for oil and gas and the
other for minerals. There are also four General Directors; one each for
planning and statistics, legal affairs, training, and financial control; the
General Director for financial control reports directly to the Minister. The
MOMR was established very recently and the objectives and functions of the
various departments and staff are still evolving. The total staff of about
250 consists mostly of former employees of YOMINCO (including YPC and GSB)
many of whom do not possess the requisite skills and lack clear job
definitions. Although MOMR would not have any direct responsibility for
petroleum operations (the operating responsibility is entrusted to YEPCO), it
is clear that the existing structure has to be considerably modified and
strengthened if MOMR is to have the administrative capability and technical
expertise to address the varied policy and investment issues confronting the
petroleum sector over the next decade. It would, therefore, be the objective
of the organization study under the proposed project (para. 45(a)) to
recommend the most efficient set-up of the sectoral institutions, including a
better definition of the respective roles and responsibilities of SCOMR and
MOMR, and their relationship with foreign oil companies.
33.      (C)  Investment Plans in the Oil and Gas Subsector.  To derive full
economic benefit from the oil and gas discovery, a number of investments need
to be planned carefully, in particular in refining facilities, in
transportation and storage of crude oil for export, and in the
infrastructure for gas development.
34.      A 10,000 bpd "hydroskimming" refinery at the field in Marib to
produce gasoline, diesel, and fuel oil for the domestic market was
inaugurated in April i986 and is being supported by an IFC loan to YHOC.
Economic evaluation of this small refinery shows it to be economical,
particularly given the high transport cost of oil products from the coast
into the Sanaa area. Temporary production facilities will be provided to
supply crude oil to the refinery, which is expected to be ready for
commissioning by mid-1986. Although the refinery will supply only about 38
percent of the country's consumption of refined products, it will allow field
production to advance by approximately two years and improve the country's
balance of payments through import substitution.
35.      In addition to this refinery, YEPCO has agreed with the Government
to construct a crude oil pipeline from the oilfield to the deep water port of
Salif on the Red Sea. Indications are that the pipeline would operate by
early 1988 at a capacity of about 135,000 bpd at the start of production, and
could be increased to about 400,000 bpd at a later date if new discoveries
warrant its expansion.
The Decree establishing the MOMR was issued in September 1985, the
Minister was appointed in late December 1985.



- 11 -
36.      Other potential projects could include oil products supply and
distribution infrastructure, as well as investments related to gas supply and
utilization. The Government has requested IDA's assistance to revieW the
impact of the discovery on the economy and identify, on a preliminary basis,
a number of key investment options for the energy sector (para. 23).
IDA Involvement in the Energy Sector
37.      Over the past ten years, IDA has built up an effective economic and
sector dialogue with the Government. The dialogue has focussed on issues in
the energy sector both with regard to energy planning and demand management
and to strengthening YAR's institutions. The first credit in the power
subsector in 1978 (Credit 837-YAR) provided $10 million to cover part of the
foreign exchange cost of a project involving the rehabilitation of the
distribution networks of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeidah, the training of YGEC
staff, a study for the formulation of a national electrification program, and
consultancy services. The second credit (Credit 1102-YAR), approved in 1981
and recently completed, provided SDR 9.4 million to cover part of the foreign
exchange cost of a project involving the distribution of electricity to 18
villages and the three principal farmers' markets in the cities of Sanaa,
Taiz and Hodeidah. It also financed a detailed review of petroleum and power
pricing. The third credit (Credit 1361-YAR), approved in 1983, provided SDR
17.5 million to cover part of the foreign exchange cost of a project
involving the extension of the supply of electricity from the national grid
to rural areas. A fourth power project, that would expand the distribution
network further and provide additional institutional support to YGEC, is
scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1986.
38.      The principal objective of IDA lending in the petroleum sector has
been to support the Government's efforts to assess its petroleum potential
by attracting foreign risk capital from private oil companies. To this end,
IDA granted a credit of SDR 1.8 million in 1982 (Credit 1216-YAR). Partly
as a result of this initiative by IDA, several oil companies were encouraged
to undertake exploration activity in YAR, among which is YROC which signed
the exploration agreement in the Marib basin resulting in the recent
discovery. In parallel with this initiative, IDA has supported strengthening
the planning and implementation capabilities of YOMINCO. Finally, Credit
1216-YAR also financed a study for a petroleum products pipeline which would
provide a lower cost transportation system to supply imported petroleum
products to the main market areas. Following the oil discovery by YHOC, the
proposed products pipeline system was reduced in scope. A second IDA credit,
which was approved in 1983 and which was designed to assess the geothermal
resource potential of the country, was cancelled in view of the higher
priority given to the development of hydrocarbon resources. An Energy
Assessment-L for the whole energy sector, completed in December 1984,
YAR: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (No. 4892-YAR), December
1984.



- 12 -
provided an integrated overview of consumption patterns and sector issues.
However, this assessment was made before oil was discovered and its
conclusions are likely to be modified by the more recent energy sector
mission (para. 23).
Rationale for IDA Involvement
39.      As a result of IDA's combined activities in power and petroleum, a
close working relationship has been established with the Government with
regard to planning, organizational and policy issues affecting the
development of the energy sector. Following the YHOC discovery and the
realization by the Government of its importance for the economic development
of YAR, the Government requested IDA to play a leading role in helping to
strengthen its institutional capabilities to deal with the important and
difficult task of making the best economic use of its newly discovered
resources. To this end, it has requested IDA to assist it to identify the
expertise needed to address the broad spectrum of technical, legal and
administrative issues it was confronting. It is critical that IDA's role now
be expanded to strengthen the Government's currently weak administrative,
planning and monitoring capabilities in the petroleum sector. Supported by
financing from USAID and the Netherlands, the proposed technical assistance
credit would provide urgently needed funds to finance technical experts,
resident advisors, and organization and feasibility studies which will be
needed over the next five years.
IFC Involvement
40.      IFC has already been involved in the petroleum sector through the
provision of a loan to YHOC in 1985 to help finance the Marib refinery which
would partially cover domestic needs for refined products (para. 34).
PART Iv - THE PROJECT
Background
41.      Following the recent oil discovery, the Government requested IDA to
provide technical assistance for the institutional development of the
petroleum sector. The project was identified in mid-1985 and appraised in
January 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 21 to 23,
1986. The Government of YAR was represented by a delegation headed by H.E.
Ahmed Al-Mohanny, Minister of Oil and Mineral Resources and including
representatives from the Central Planning Organization, the Supreme Council
on Oil and Mineral Resources and MOMR. No separate Staff Appraisal Report
has been prepared. The main features of the credit and the project are
presented in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III.
42.      The discovery and prospective development of sizeable oil and gas
reserves by foreign oil companies has confronted the Government with an
urgent need to address unprecedented technical, legal, financial, and
economic issues. The institutions in YAR are, at this time, not sufficiently



- 13 -
equipped to deal with issues of this complexity and urgently need access to
specialized expertise. The proposed project would support the Government in
addressing a complex spectrum of issues in the petroleum sector in order to
derive maximum economic benefit from the oil and gas discovery.  The needs of
the Government are: (i) in the short term, immediate access to expert advise
to assist in dealing with the most pressing issues related to the development
of the discovered oil reserves; and (ii) in the long term, (a) assistance in
the formulation of a suitable petroleum sector policy and institutional
framework, and of a development program for the economic utilization of
domestic oil and gas resources, and (b) the provision of training to improve
managerial capabilities and technical expertise.
Project Objectives and Description
43.      The main objective of the project is to provide broad technical
support to MOMR during the 1986-1992 period, which includes the Third
Five-Year Plan period. Specifically, it would: (i) provide technical
support through individual resident advisors; (ii) provide technical support
through specialized firms for institutional development and investment
planning, including monitoring of future investments and introduction of
environmental control legislation; (iii) assist in developing a management
information system (MIS) for accounting and a data base for exploration and
production; and (iv) assist in training and manpower planning.
44.      Resident Advisors.  Technical support for day-to-day operations
would be provided by a group of about seven expatriate resident advisors
(RAs) working in MOMR on a fixed-term basis (about three to four years
each). In addition to providing on-the-job training to their national
counterparts, the main tasks of these advisors are stmmarized as follows:-'
(a) Management and Policy Advisor. Elaborate, on on ongoing basis,
policy options for oil and gas development and advise the Project
Coordinator (para. 50) in all matters relating to project
implementation, particularly in the coordination of the activities
of the RAs.
(b) Exploration and Production Advisor. Evaluate the technical aspects
of the operating decisions by foreign companies and, in general,
provide technical advice regarding related exploration and
production activities.
(c) Refining, Transportation and Distribution Advisor. Assist in
formulating policy options and monitor investment studies in
downstream activities and advise on issues relating to programming
supply and demand for petroleum products.
(d) Accounting/Auditing Advisor. Assist in controlling and auditing the
exploration and production expenses of contractors and assist in the
preparation of financial reports.
t' Detailed draft terms-of-reference are presented in Annex V.



- 14 -
(e) Procurement/Costing Advisor. Evaluate procurement procedures and
methods applied by operating companies and verify and control the
chargeable costs incurred by these companies.
(f) Legal Advisor. Counsel MOMR and SCOMR on the interpretation and
implementation of contractual arrangements and assist in any
negotiations between operating companies and the Government.
(g) Training Advisor. Coordinate various types of training available
and follow-up on the implementation of a training master plan
proposed under this project (para. 47).
Under this component, the project provides for support services which include
up to five vehicles and office materials and equipment to be used by the RAs.
45.      Studies and Consultant Services.  Specialized technical support,
mainly in the form of studies would be provided by qualified firms in the
following areas:L/
(a) Organization Study of MOMR and the Petroleum Sector. This would
consist of: vi) evaluating the existing organization and its
tasks; (ii) assessing the adequacy of manpower in MOMR and the
petroleum sector, and forecasting future manpower needs;
(iii) formulating an overall sector structure, organization and
related manpower policy; (iv) planning for the implementation of the
proposed policy; and (v) designing specific measures to enable NOMR
to attract and retain trained personnel.
(b) Review of Alif Field Development Plan. This review would include:
(i) data collection; (ii) designing a geological model;
(iii) designing a digital reservoir model to be processed by
computer; (iv) evaluation of reserves; and (v) forecasts for oil and
gas production. Several possible scenarios would be studied,
assuming different production profiles and ultimate recoveries in
order to assess the fina-ncial and economic costs and benefits of
possible options.
(c) Gas Utilization Study. This would consist of: (i) a study of the
potential market for gas; (ii) evaluation of gas supply;
(iii) design and evaluation of optimal gas transportation and
utilization methods; and (iv) technical and economic evaluation of
various applications in power generation, industry, the commercial
sector, and households.
(d) Proiect Management. Preinvestment Studies and other ConsultancY
Services. This would include consulting services to assist NOMR in
the preparation and supervision of investment projects in the sector
(para. 36), in particular for: (i) feasibility studies for proposed
projects; (ii) services related to tendering of contracts; (iii)
supervision of construction; and (iv) monitoring of operations.
This component also includes provisions for other consultancy
services that may be required from time to time.
-'  Detailed draft terms of reference are presented in Annex VIII.



- 15 -
(e) Environmental Protection. This would include: (i) preparing
environmental protection legislation; and (ii) preparing guidelines
for pollution control in all aspects of petroleum operations.
46.      Management Information System.  This would include consulting
services in accountint to: (i) evaluate the existing cost accounting and
financial accounting practices and assess future requirements; (ii) recommend
improvements for internal control, accounting/financial reporting and
planning of MOMR; (iii) design a computerized system and assist in the
acquisition of its related hardware and software; and (iv) introduce the
system and provide training in its use. This component would also include
consulting services for developing a data base for exploration and production
to (i) evaluate existing data and assess future requirements; (ii) design a
computerized system for geophysical, geological, exploration and production
data collection and storage and assist in the acquisition of its related
hardware and software; and (iii) introduce the system and provide training in
its use.
47.      Training.  This would include consulting services for:
(i) evaluating training requirements; (ii) evaluating and coordinating the
various sources and means of training available; (iii) designing a training
master plan; (iv) designing a selection method for trainees; (v) training of
up to 40-60 specialists over a period of about five years (both locally and
abroad) in a whole range of subjects, such as petroleum geology, geophysics,
engineering, and management; and (vi) monitoring the implementation of the
training plan. Since the number of trainees envisioned under (v) above
essentially encompasses most of the professional staff of MOMR, the proposed
training plan would be designed to minimize any disruption of the day-to-day
operations of the Ministry. For example, as much of the training as
practicable would be provided on location in Sanaa and the provision of
training would be appropriately staggered. Since many of the standard and
most widespread references in the petroleum industry are in English and since
English is the most common foreign language spoken by Yemenis and the
training component is expected to be financed by USAID, the training plan
would ensure that the passing of an appropriate English language test would
be a condition for further specialized training.
Proiect Cost and Financing
48.      The total project cost, net of duties and taxes (from which the
project would be exempt), is estimated at $17.0 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $13.3 million, or 78 percent of total cost. The base
cost is estimated at January 1986 prices. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at 10 percent over the period of the project. Price increases for
the foreign cost component have been calculated at 6.8 percent per annum for
the years 1987 and 1988, 7 percent for 1989, 7.1 percent for 1990 and 4.0
percent for 1991. Price increases for the local cost component have been
estimated at 10 percent per annum for the entire project implementation
period.



- 16 -
49.      The proposed IDA credit in support of this project is in the amount
of SDR 10.6 million (equivalent to about $12.0 million) which would finance
about 71 percent of the total project cost, which will be used to finance 82
percent of the foreign exchange component and 30 percent of the local cost.
USAID has agreed, in principle, to provide about $2.1 million or 12 percent
of the total project cost, to cover the cost of the organization study ($0.5
million) and the training component ($1.6 million). The Kingdom of the
Netherlands has agreed, in principle, to provide about $1.1 million, or 6
percent of the total project cost, to cover the cost of the gas utilization
study ($0.7 million) and the data base for exploration and production ($0.4
million). The satisfaction of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the financing agreements with USAID and The Netherlands would be a condition
of effectiveness of the IDA credit. The Government contribution would
finance the balance of the local cost, i.e., $1.8 million equivalent, or
about 11 percent of the total project cost. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that MOMR would be provided with sufficient
budgetary resources to enable it to implement the project with due efficiency.
Project ImplementationL'
50.      The project implementing agency would be MOMR.  The Minister of Oil
and Mineral Resources has already designated a Yemeni Project Coordinator
with overall responsibility for project implementation. The Project
Coordinator would report to the Deputy Minister for Oil and Gas once this
Deputy is appointed, or to the Minister in the absence of the Deputy. The
Project Coordinator would be advised by the Management and Policy Advisor.
51.      The Deputy Minister (or Minister in his absence) would be
responsible for ensuring any necessary coordination between this project and
activities of other donors and operating companies in the petroleum sector.
He would be assisted by the Project Coordinator. In addition, and in order
to strengthen donor coordination, an agreement has been reached with the
Government that IDA would be promptly notified in writing by MOMR about any
activity proposed by other donors or operating companies which may affect
IDA's assistance under this project and IDA would be provided an opportunity
to discuss such proposals with MOMR.
52.      The Project Coordinator would be assisted in carrying out the
administrative, material and logistic arrangements related to the project by
the Planning Department of MOMR, which has experience with IDA procedures and
has overall responsibility for externally assisted projects within MOMR. For
this purpose, the Project Coordinator would be responsible, in collaboration
with the concerned departments of MOMR for the following:
(i)      Selection of the Resident Advisors.  The resident advisors are a
crucial component of this project; detailed procedures for their selection
and appointment were agreed at negotiations. Appointment of the Management
and Policy Advisor, the Refining, Transportation and Distribution Advisor,
and the Accounting Advisor would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
"'  An implementation chart is presented in Annex IV.



- 17 -
(ii)    Selection and Appointment of National Counterparts.  Experience with
technical assistance aimed at institutional support in YAR has shown that it
can have only a short term impact unless qualified nationals are appointed
and trained by expatriate specialists. Therefore, during negotiations, an
agreement was reached with the Government that not later than October 31,
1986, MOMR would notify IDA in writing of the positions and qualifications of
not less than two appointed national counterparts to work with and be trained
by each resident advisor, with the exception of the Management and Policy
Advisor. Work programs for the national counterparts would be submitted to
IDA for review not later than December 31, 1986. Such programs would be
updated yearly and submitted for IDA's review by the end of each calendar
year.
(iii)    Appointment of Consulting Firms.  During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on the terms of reference and on a timetable for
the appointment of the consulting firms that would undertake the
organization, training, gas utilization, accounting, environmental
protection, field development, and project management and preinvestment
studies and other consultancy services, as may be required.
(iv)     Coordination with the Cofinanciers.  In order to ensure that
cofinanced project components are implemented within a framework acceptable
to IDA, an agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government
would promptly provide IDA with final reports prepared under the project
components financed by the cofinanciers and that IDA would be afforded the
opportunity to discuss such reports in a timely manner.  The cofinanciers
would undertake joint reviews of project implementation, as appropriate.
(v)     Appointment of Personnel.  A high turnover of trained personnel
would have a detrimental effect on the results of the technical assistance
and training. Therefore, during negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that MOMR would be kept in a position to undertake the
necessary measures to attract and retain qualified personnel.
(vi)     Logistical arranRements for the Resident Advisors.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the resident
advisors would be provided with adequate accommodation, secretarial support,
office space, transportation and other logistical support.
Proiect Monitoring
53.      During negotiations, an agreement was reached with the Government
that the monitoring and evaluation of project implementation would include:
(i) quarterly progress reports prepared by the Project Coordinator and
submitted to IDA; (ii) semi-annual progress reports, including a review of
progress in training, to be undertaken by the heads of the concerned
departments of MOMR and the RAs; and (iii) a Project Completion Report to be
prepared by the Government and furnished to IDA within six months of the
completion of the project.



- 18 -
Procurement
54.      The pruject components financed by IDA would be procured in
accordance with standard IDA guidelines:-L the resident advisors
($5.2 million) would be preselected through international advertisement to be
managed by a recruitment firm already engaged by the Government. The actual
selection of these advisors would be made by the Government in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines for the employment of consultants; the specialized
firms providing consulting services and studies ($5.5 million) would be
selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for consulting services and in
compliance with terms of reference approved by IDA. The computer hardware
and software required for the Accounting MIS ($0.9 million) would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). However, only suppliers
having or willing to establish service facilities in the region and able to
provide the required training would be qualified for bidding. Office
materials and equipment required for early delivery for the resident advisors
($0.4 million) would be purchased under directly negotiated contracts. It is
anticipated that up to five vehicles would be required and these would be
purchased through established local dealerships. Procurement of consulting
services and other items to be financed solely by USAID ($2.1 million) and
the Netherlands ($1.1 million) would be in accordance with the procurement
guidelines of the corresponding agencies. However, the hardware and software
selected for the Data Base for Exploration and Production which is expected
to be financed by the Netherlands, should be compatible with the equipment
used presently in MOMR and by YEPCO.
Disbursement
55.      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over six years.-'  The
project would be completed on June 30, 1991 with a closing date of June 30,
1992. This is based on past experience with similar projects and is in line
with the Bank-wide standard profile of technical assistance loans for energy
(oil), which is about 6 years.
56.      Disbursements would be on the basis of 100 percent of the total cost
of the resident advisnrs, 100 perceut of the foreign cost and 80 percent of
the local cost of equipment, and 100 percent of the foreign costs of all the
other IDA-financed components.  Withdrawals from the credit account for all
contracts and services with a contract value less than $20,000 equivalent
would be on the basis of statements of expenditures. In order to expedite
disbursement, a Special Account (revolving fund) would be established in the
Central Bank of Yemen, in the amount of SDR 0.7 million (estimated average
payments over a four month period). In order to expedite project start-up
activities, an advance from the Project Preparation Facility of up to
$870,000 has been provided to finance consultancy services for short term
legal advice, a feasibility study for a second refinery and to partially meet
the cost of the resident advisors until credit effectiveness, which is to be
refinanced out of the credit.
-LZ The cost figures in this paragraph include contingencies.
2/z A detailed disbursement schedule is presented in Annex VI.



- 19 -
Auditing
57.      The project accounts would be established in the Finance Department
of MOMR. These accounts would be operated by the Planning Department, as is
the practice in the Ministry. The accounts, including the Special Account,
would be subject to independent audit in accordance with arrangements
acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of the accounts, and the auditors'
opinion thereon, including a specific report on the audit of withdrawals
based on statements of expenditures, would be sent to IDA within six months
of the end of each fiscal year. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government that, by December 31, 1986, IDA would receive from the
Government the delayed audited accounts for L984 required under Credit
1216-YAR and a set of measures designed to ensure timely submission by MOMR
of audit reports in the future.
Benefits and Risks
58.      The major benefit that would accrue to YAR under this project is the
strengthening of MOMR, a key institution responsible for the development of
important new resources which would have a very significant impact on the
rest of the economy. The project would enable MOMR to: (i) play a more
dynamic role in coordinating the development of energy resources and the
country's development program; (ii) monitor and control investments related
to the development of oil and gas resources; (iii) develop and maintain a
data base for sectoral planming; (iv) improve procedures for cost control and
procurement practices; and (v) in general, enhance national technical and
administrative capabilities in the sector. The strengthening of MOMR and
other institutions in the petroleum sector should result in a greater Yemeni
capacity to optimize the development of the national energy resources and in
a business environment in which foreign contractors can operate better which
would increase the possibilities for foreign investments and the related
influx of foreign capital.
59.      The main risks to the project are those normally arising for a
project of this nature, including attracting and retaining suitably qualified
national counterparts, especially in the face of competition from the private
sector. These risks would be minimized through measures agreed with the
Government to assign suitably qualified nationals to work with and be trained
by the expatriates from the beginning of project implementation and to ensure
that the training of nationals receives priority during project
implementation. The proposed organization study under the project would
recommend a staffing structure and design specific measures to enable MOMR to
attract and retain suitable personnel.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1986



-20 -                                                     ANNEX I
T A  9 L 9   34                                           Page  1  of  6
E . AS   RE. or    - SOCL IfICA -T               M DATA SWET        _AG
YThE.    lU REP, 0         r          13 5   GROUPS (WIGICIlED AVESE) I.
igm         wa& 197TLT    P. AFRCA   M ID ES                 LAT. AMERCA rCA
MU (t7.l SQ. RH)
TaS unman sq.nan
TUTU.                               193.0             193.   9.0
AGICULTIRAL                        96.6         9?73        97.9
CW P  CAISTA (US)                        ..          ..        350.0              1134.9                   1875.9
CKEaLC    Of OIL EQIOIVALENT)        5.0         11.0       37.0               623.9                     993.6
POPUlIOU.NDt-EA  CITNISAD)   '163.0            3256.0     795.0 te
URN POPULATION CZ OF TOrAL)           3.4         7.5        13.1               49.0                      *7.7
POPULATIN PROJECIOPS
POPULATION EN EAIL 200  (HILL)                             12.3
STATIOARY POPULATION (HILL)                               40.0
POPIIIJX[OV MOHENIW                                        2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
Pa Sq. Km.                         21.3        27.0        38.9               37.8                     '4.0
PU SQ. XU. 01. LAID               43.1        54.0        75.6              470.1           *          91.1
POPULATIN ACE STSUCjTUI (t)
0-14 YU                           42.4        43.0        45.                43.3                      33.3
15-44 YU                          54.4        33.3        51.2                53.0                     57.1
65 MND AOV                         3.1          3.1         3.3                3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROVfl RATE (2)
TorAL                               2.3         2.3         2.6                2.8                       2.4
U53A                               6.1         10.2         7.5                4.4                       3.6
CRUDE IRtH RATE (PER tPQS )         49.7         46.8        48.3               40.0                      30.9
CRUDC DEETI RATE (PEl TDOUS)         28.9        26.3        22.0               11.5                       5.0
GROSS  ROUCflOIN RlATE                3.4         3.3         3.3                2.1                       2.0
FAIaLT PUNNIN
ACEPTS. ANNUAL (TOUbS)              ..
USERS CE OF KMARIEC 'EEN)           ..          .           1.O /d            211.                      45.1
IND0X OF FOOD tPRD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-1oo)                       119.0        S.o         75.0               95.1                     109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES 2 OF REQUIW1I1NTS)       83.0        68.0        80.0              1L1.2                      113.2
PROTEINS (GRAS PA DAT)            67.0        53.0        60.0               77.8                      69.4
OF WHICl ANIAL AND PLSE           16.0       14.0         19.0 /e            17.a                     34.2
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DATH RATE          61.1        46.'        33.0               12.8                       4.8
LIFE CX7ECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       35.S        36.5        ".1                57.6                      64.8
INFANT  OR. RATE (PER THOS)        211.5       186.0       152.0               96.8                      59.7
ACCESS TO SAM VATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                              ..          4.0        27.0 /t            57.2                      65.3
URBAN                              ..         45.0         o. 7              93.4                      74.5
RURAL                              ..          2.0         6.O H             I5.8                      44.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
Ct OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..                45.9                       56.3
aR                                 ..          ..         1:O.Off            63.0                      73.4
RUIAL                              ..          ..          ..                28.6                      25.5
POPULATION PER PTSICIM          130090.0    24370.0    llte?.O /f            4331.0                    1909.7
POP.  R  URSIN  PON                   ..         ..       4580.0 7           1345.0                     608.2
POP. PER SOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2730.0      1430.0 La   1700.0 if           621.6                     362.0
URI"                               ..          ..        340.0 7            543.0                     422.0
RURAL                              ..          ..       4360.07r           25t1.3                    2716.7
ADUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL 3..                       ..         14.3 /f            25.7                      27.5
AVERSEZ SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBA                               ..          ._.....
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERSE NO. Or PEBSONSI/ROO
TOTAL                                           ..
Ua.                                            ......
PERCETAE or DIELLINGS uN  ua.
TOTAL                               ..         ..
a                                   ..         ..           .                   ..



-21 -                                              ANNX I
Page 2 of 6
T A N L f 34
TE, ARW  UP. oP    - loOt.L INDICATORS DATA urn
Tifl, A    uP. or                    RIFIurSN  GRoUPs (WtICTD AVEMAS) k
"OST                     (HOST RECENT ETIMATE) /b
lilCUl           HIMLb tNcm              '1ID04 1AO
~Lwt       1970bn %STS            v.  ftt     M  N bS6             INT.  CHA rat
ADJUSTED SRROLGIKVT RATIOS
PRI4ARU:  TOTAL                    1.0        12.0        59.0               59.8                     108.7
HALE                    14.0       23.0        99.0              1',1.?                    10t.5
rFmALE                  0.4         2.11       17.0               75.2                     1u4.8
SECoIARTm TOTAL                    ..          1.0         7.0               42.9                      4.2
KALE                    ..          2.0        12.0               S0.9                      41.7
rFmLE                    ..         0.1         2.0               34.8                      44.v
VOCAntOAL (C OP SECOMZ)              3.2 l       2.2         1.e               10.0                      13.3
MUIL-T, ACIIC rATO
PEIHflV                           43.0       3S.0         48.0               29.7 z 
5ECONDAI                          24.0 7b     2.0         18.0               18.8                      1.:?
PASEMER1   CABSINOUSANO POP          ..          ..          ..                17.6                      8.0
to uChIvnRS/TlnHUSAcD POP             ..        15.3 g      18.2              175.9                     328.3
UT  CEVlESIIDTrSAI  POP               ..         ..          2.0               51.2                     112.4
INPAPER ("DALt GENERL
fIhRtS,T) CIULATlON
U TEOUSD POPULAO                    ..         10.7         ..                37.2                      e1.1
CDUM  ASUAL AITEIIZDAC/CAPITA         ..         ..          2.1 if             2.4                       2.8
LA4OB rn
TOTAL LAWS FORM (TOUS)            1263.0      1481.0      1850.0
FDMA  (PERCENTI                   3.7         4.5         5.6               11.0                      23.6
ACCULTORE  (maCEmw)               83.0        79.0        75.0 i             42.4                      31.4
tINDUSm  (PE1CN)                   7.0         9.0        11.0 ff            27.9                      24.3
PATICIPATION RATE (PSrZIT)
TOTAL                             30.3        Z8.2        24.4               26.2                      33.5
liAIs                             57.7        55.0        48.6               46.2                      51.3
FEMALE                             2.3         2.5         2.6                5.8                      15.9
rCONOfIC D aPE aDUC RtATO            1.5         1.8         2.0                1.8                       1.3
- mtIn
Psucair OP PIVTATE 2336
RECIVED R
HICHEST S or WUSEMS                ,.          ..          ..                 ..                        ..
HUIRnu  =  or mS                   .......
uWILS? 20X OF WDSEhOLSS            ..
LOT  a  or MUSULDS                 ...
Pvin TCma
ESTIIWZ  ABSOWUE POS  1NCOMIL
LVEL (USS PE  CAPITA)
llURill                            ..          ..        366.0 /t           22G.3                     250.3
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               134.0                     185.3
STXIATD   LCATY  PrOUST tuNXS
LYMC (1155 PM CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..               431.5                     519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        157.0 /f           326.0                     359.7
ESTUIRTS POP. *ZLO   ASSOLITE
LOPR? EINCO  LEVEL CZ)
UR..
IIIIUL                             ..          ..          ..                29.0
Mr AVAILAB
Mr APPLICAE
N T E S
/a   The srap avereg   for tech indLctto  we popalatlo-welghted tritimtic  am. _owtrta  of contrie
ainw  the  niodcator dapan   an availabillty of dataand Is no uniform.
/b   Un7te  athexuloe notid. "Data for 1960" refer to aW  year between 1959 ad 1I61; 'Data fto i970" betwen
199 and 1971; ed data for "Mot Recent Eatlere" beawen 1981 ad 1983.
/c   Ralds"ut popuaetion Includ. =grent worker  abroad for leat  than a year;  Id 1979:  ia 1977;  If 1980;
/. 1972; /h 1962.
JUNE. 1985



AN N EX I
-22-                                                       Page 3 of 6
DEFI MONS OF SOCAL INDICATORS
%Mes. Allhough the dat ate dnm. rem   rm genealy judgd i most aathnatiaiv. and rdeiabt. ii thmuld dIo e nore that they ma? not Se interajnaul
gV        becaute    x   Wit af s amdadaaa denions and contes maui by delerem cotmum in cflacnag ie e dat The dta afm nonethera_ -4,cfa 1o
Jownfti order oflitudm indate tld. and chafaEtli iu  maOr datti centte n ba  couninm. 
The .6 ierm goap ani 11  the sau  countly group of di subjet country and l1l a country grus with tsme-kU higher average iacme than Ike 1ueu r
frouot  trio iub.m counr   i  for (o-Hl Incom O Epornet  group lm' Mddid Income Nonh Ufnta d.Mtde as cmnonea *.t-er
oulwnal aea In Ihe rere  ago  daiatbavemw *apopulaoa  eaed andunetcmane fro ea  :ndor and ioaonlv.-m meaitit
of theounet m*a group bidata rothat indctor. Santhe tcoerae  lcounua mg the mdatondepends oa tae avaalab bo data and 'sn .at
.jaaoniniaitbeea.eroaedn reatng ava   done macorto eameLtr Thu. aeags" re only uaul ixn cmeg the value ot ae inictor at a umae t
; thte aunuz e tetuo grog.
AREA (thousand sq.km.J                                          C.adr & br RarN   (per showsud)-Nunuberoflive births in the )ear
reF-Total surface aresia omprsing la            anu             per thousand of ad-year populaton. 1960. 1970. an  1983 daa.
1960. 1970 and 1933 dauL                                        Crud Dth Rare (per n.imO)-Number ofrdaths in the ,Qr
Agoicaftwo;-Estimate of agricut      aea usd tepoarily or       per tOWasand of mid-yer population 1960. 1970. and 19B3 datLa
permanendy for rop, pastus. market and kithten prden or to      GCsj Iapredeido. hit-Averae number of dautrs a w oman
[ie (aLow. 1960. 1970 and 1912 data                             will bear in her nonmal reproductve penod if she epeen
present ag-speci   rlty raten usually fve-ear aveaages eoding
CNP PER CAPfTA (USS-GNP per capita estumaes at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
mauker pnces cakulted by same converson method as World         F        PiE Y-eWPs A&v&W fthossambu-Annual m-
BurA MW (198143 basiak 1983 daa.                                berofacceptorsof  = ldhcotl deicunde auspesooaonal
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPrA-Annual apparent                   Fa  r plamning pmga
consumpuon of connercial primary enrgy (coal and lignite.u            p Pffe-Cs  (prcua of-r-I -nj-Th percen-
petroleum, nanual  us and hydro. nucear and geothermal dee-     tage of marned women of chid-beaig ag who are prcong or
ricity) in kilgram  of od equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. ad  whose husbsids arc pracicing any form of onwacepuoa. Voe,n
19S2 dat,                                                       of chd-berag age are generally omen aged 1549. aIdwto  for
some counmes conacp     usage is amsured for other ag
POPULATIO AND VffAL SrATITCS                      s.^cs 
Teod Papedmim. Md- Yew (rhemdrj-As of July t 1960 1970.         FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 daa.
~~ Pa,.I~~(   if  -.~~ of  ~         ~~         IadezefF.od ProAmce. Per Capi ta Z%96971 - 100)-Index of per
paito P ipu          ns irins of unliaae    y urbnw wtpaL       capta annual producton  of aD food cammodiues Production
,~popula      ddkrm de_inuwm of urbm ar- may a&= compar-        ecludes anirmal feed and seed for agricultur  Food commodities
abiity of data among counDSesc 1960. 1970. and 1983 daa         include primary cmmwdities (eg. suarcae ntd of sugari
R     _-dn.  F                                                  which are edible and conta  nuttnt (eg. caTee and t  are
Popt1ixtu rr yw 20O0-The projection of population for M00.      excuidedk t   coy pie tca   root cops pulses, od seed.
made for cach eowmy separuay. Sartin  with informaton on        vegeables fruis  us. suparm and suga bee  livesoc, and
tot populawn by age and se  feilityn m ortality aes, and   l      evcsk producs Aggregate producton ofeach country is based
intnoa miatio  in the ba  year 1910. these parameters           on nanonal averag poducrr prce wagh    1961-65. 197  and
wer projected at five-r itevals an the basis of generalized     1982 data
assumptons unl the popultion became stionay.                    Per Cat  S.ipg,ejICuA'ies (poem au p-Comput-
Sanwy pqpuimim-ls one is wicb  aw and sex-spec mor-             ed from caone eqtuvalcn of et food supplies available in country
ligy rams have not changed o'e a long peod, while age-specic    per capcta per day. Avble supplies comprse do s  praduc-
ferility rams h   multneously remned at replacmt Lvd            nion. imports lss exports and chns  in sock.  et supplies
(ntx reproduction rae-1). In such a populaion the birth rae is  excdude animl eed seeds ror use in agricuLtur quantities used in
constat and equa to the death raw. the age stuicts also        food procesng ad losses in distribution. Reqiurem    were
constant, and the grwth rame is  o. The staonary populato       estmated by FAO based on physological needs for normal activy
size wa estimated on the basis of the projected characreristics of  and health coasidering envtronmental utmperaurm body weights.
the popuation in the year 2000. and die rae of decline of ferlity  age and sex distrbution of populaion and allowing 10 peent for
te to mplcement eveL                                            waste at houehold kviev  1961. 1970 and 1982 datax
ftpopadou Vfmeirn-ls the tendency for populao  growth to        Pir C.pia Suppiy of mrin fgruu por day -Prorein content of
conunti beyond the aime that replacement-lewl fertlty has been  per capta nt supply offood perday. %ke supply of food is deined
ahevd, that is. eve after the nct rproduca   raec has reached   as above Requuements for all counmies escablished by USDA
unity. The momenum ofa *-pulaon in the year r is teasured as   provude for iimnumm allowancs of 60 rnts of total protein per
a ratio of t   dimae sttonary population to the population in   day and 20 grams of animal acd pulse protein, of which 10 grans
the yr . gven the assumpion that rtiity rmns at rplace-         should be -na proteinL The  standards are lower than those of
ment klevd ftm year z onward. 1985 data.                        75 granms of total protein and 3 grams of animal protein at an
_OPMhdm 00R*       -                                           averge for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
*r sq kin. id-vyear population per square kidometer (100 hoc-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tre) of totl area: 1960, 1970. and 19U3 dat                    Per Ca*r Poiei Su o p From A4il ad Aris-Proei Supply
Per sqkne agricnlri fbnu-Computed as above for agriculural     of food denved from anma and pulses in gam  per day. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1912 data.                           1970 and 1977 dama
PbPIMl  Age Sncexw  (pirecie)-Children 10-14 years). work-     CAa s i Z D h Rcr (pert ioumndj-,umberiof dearhs of
iRgpe(1S64 yeML).and retIed (65yersand overaaspacage           children agd 1-t years per thousand ciltdn in the saNe A
of mder popwaeja 1960. 1970. and 19S3 data                      group in a gven year For most avloping counrt data de ved
om.m G'owwh RAm 4eMei-rara-Annual growth rates c:               from life tabs  1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
tonal my    population for 1950-0 1960-70. ;d 1970413.          HEALaH
AVabuin d       Q.ue d,r~ pare  J                  bu  g mo u rI#, EL0paeMwy        v  <ry s,-  umber of yes a newborn
ofurbn populatn for 1950-60 1960-70. and 1970-83 dam.           infant would live if pealing pater  of mortality for all pople



-23-                                                   Page 6 of 6
at the tu  of of its bitJ wm to stay the same throughout i life;  Aipf-taher Ratni - prma. and Yecrand-.Total studets es.
1960. 1970 ad 19U3 data.                                     rolled La prmary and wecndary levels divtded by numben of
iJema ,Mae f    u ftep dwomd).-Numnber of infants who die    tchm    the coreponding leves.
before rachtng one year of age per thousand live births an a gpven
YVa: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                CON.3TIO
Ac^  t Soft  WN (PweI  of pem..f.ol  WOW. dMd                Pasum Cs (Pw toand p_poriuj-Passer car CTsi-
mrw-N umber of people (total. urba  and ralu) with  aonable  prise motor can seating le  th  aght peons exludes ambul.
aecca to safe war supply (cludes tur d srfae waters          anceo hae a d military vehieus. 
unwraed but _utunisted  w   such - t,t som p4oned                R ecRive  (pe raexd pepulerin-AllU type of eciM
boilesL spring and samuy wdls) u pacuag. of ther rop-        for radio broadc    to general public per thousand of population;
timv populanos Ln an urban aud a pubc fountain or stndpos     yuds un4 i     d reeive  in countri  ad in ya  w
lod ots mm   a00            frm a hme may be codd            resration of radio sea was in erict: daga for recent yer may
as beig within reasonableca   of tha hous  In  r   a         not be comparable   most counte abolished licensin
reasonable. aca ould imply thau the bousewife or members of the
bousebold do not have o spend a dspropooa  pat of the day    TVDe,aber 1 W34mp#iusb.--TV ecevr for broadt
an fecbing the famly's water needs.                          to pod5 public per thousad populano  exclude  licensed TV
a Ewes. mymel 4eeaa .jp   j- ~ ris ui counte and in yas  hen reuuaon of TV ets was
Acc    o        n4a Dq_    m    of #      ) _                in efe a
and rinu-Number of people (toaL urban. and rura    e   by
ecrem diosal a pecnages of chir respective p lo                   s    Lq__e9   (pe t MPp-atbD hows the aver-
Ecreta dpoul mey includ the colecion and diposaL  th wtueor       i rculati  of -daay peneral ntereSt nespap   deAned as a
withu treatment of human excrec and was-watr by wat-         periodiai ublcato devotd pmanly to recording geel new.
borne systems ar the o  of pi ptivies and si   ins           It is consder  to be duly- if it appeas at east four tmes a. weeL
Ap de per P        d-   la   divie by number of pac-         Cinamn A4d Asundze  per Coptan pe  e-9ased oa  the
using physiciqualfed from  a  edcdl scool az uivesity levL   number of tick  sold durui the yea  mdudins admiso  to
&pufndmpe        q Pwrm-Populadon divided by number of       drive-in cums and moble unitc
pracacng mae and femal Sraduae nuas. assant nurse.           LBOR        C
pracacal nure and nurs.. axiliariesa
Ibpewi  per Houpid 16-4mamel, -*m, and ~surd*plasson         cludin Labrme forceos and unEmpoyedbau eaclun haousewves
(otaL  uba  and twat) dided by tbai respec_ve number of      dy e d                                but e g 
hospitbal beds aailable n public andpvatppe, mand speciud    studen. erc- covering populaon of all age  Deitions in
hospaials and chabafiation cemters, FHospias ar csabblamms   vanous couitrs ar mot compambi 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
szauna-d  staffed by   kem onet physician. Establislnent     F-ufr (peream-Fekale lab   force as pamg       of tomalalabor
id&g peilly asuodial can am not included. R.ai hospital,     forc.
biwow     iclude heafh and mical cencecs no peauneuy staled  Aspicahwr (perJ-Labor forc tn farming fostry.  bniofmg
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse midwife. ewc)  and fishing as pecntage of toed lar foerat 1960 1970 and 1980
whch odfe in-paue  acmmodaton and orovide a lit-zed range    data.
of mical faies.                                              'oary f0wee-Labor form i .ng. contruco  ma
A4 t per Ispied BeiP-Total mumber of admisn to or            facrwing and dectrticty, wate and ps as pecntg of woal labor
dicrg  from hopials diid by the number of bedL               forco: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data
Pwel*icomd Aare (perewk      ainhMo. wAei     aticiarmol.
HOUSING                                                      or acavay rat ar computedas totaL male, and female  or for
A-W   .p of MAf          (perm p.'I h   e-ao.d  aim,         as pesnge of toal male ad female population of all as
idrsli-A houshod is  ofa guuupofandmduals who sha              pecdvel. 1960. 1970. and 1983 daa Thme  a  based on ILOs
ivig quan md thiw mm  meals. A boarder or lodge may or       par a       moo res refectng ag-e strucuareof the populton, and
may not be inxled in tbe househodd for staIscal pMrpo,    b  long time trend. A few esomats am from natonal soures
A-esantbor of  vhan per ReLe-mra  mba, mad nwmu-             Ecammd D_padmcy Rtdh-Ratio of populaoniund  1. and
Aversg  number of pon  pr rom  un all urban, and rurU        45 and oven to th working ae populauon (tho  agd 15-6).
occuped conventionl dwellings, reptve. Dwellings exdude
nonper_nent stuctues and u      _occupied pum                INCOME DISTRIMBUON
Perramag. of DraEup wiA E racup-aiek wim  md rwa-            Pweanr  of Terd D isposbIe facau  (bot iu cakh        --
Convenwioal dweli  with lei ty m living q n as peen-         Acuing wo percentie poups of households raed by total house-
tage of totaL urban and ruri dvelinp respectivey,            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVErTY TARGrr GitOLPS
* P  5  Einw  Rade_                                          The folowing estimate are very approximuae measures of poverty
*  wy   scotol - totaL mac and fendec-Gross otal male and    kvel. and should be intrped with considerabk cauto
fle enrllment of all ago at the prmury lvd as peomage of    EsthoiradAhadwe Poperty hocauvead    S per cpe -mr6on
rspecve prmary scho-a  populaon  Wilk mny countries           ed Md-Absolute poverty icome lvd is tha inc hLeid
co    r primy school ap to be 6.11 year othen do aot The     below which a nimal nutrinomially adequae diet plus essenti
diFer    in coutry practices n dhe am and duration of school  mon-food rque I  ts ts ot aTfordable
ar relected in the raos pven For some countres with un sgversl  Emima      hum js hcow Lewr ((5 per capra)-wht
ed_cnn Po  enoment my exeed 100 pep r  since some  e -  rui&RuJ r"Jie povry income level is one-tird of
pps ate bdow or above the coutry's standard prmary-school    ave     per capi  penal icome of the country. Urban led i
ir-                                                          deived fron the rural levd with adustment for higer cost of
Sec5a.ry shood - ruaL moe aid facnie-Computed as abov        living in urbanareas.
secondary education requrns at least four years of approved pr-  f      Ph,,,Uie,  Beiv.. Ahnihovevir Irna 1Lard fper-
mary insuction: provids geeral vocaiona or teacher traing    'cow)-oris sod rrad- Percent of populauon (urban and naa
isMuacts for pupils usually of 12 to 17 yeas of     c spod   who am -absolute poor.-
enm coues amgeUefy excluded,
Vacmd Eiwvod    fperwir of ecomrj-Vocami              u                Compartve Anapli  and Data Divi
om inclde technical, industiaL or other proam  which opr             Econoaic Analysts and Projecaios Deparment
indepndenly or n depar_tts of secondary istiuons                                     Jaun 1985



-24-                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
XATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X)
1984                   (Constant Price)
($m - Current Prices)        FY1977-83       1984
GNP at Market Prices                3806                     6            2
GDP at Market Prices                3354                     7            2
Imports of GNFS                     1673                     5           -9
Exports of GNFS                      220                    15            1
Consumption                         4105                     4           -2
of which:  Government            (1333)                   20           -5
Investment                           702                     9           -8
Gross National Savings               391                   --9          -16
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added   PResident Labor Force       V.A. Per Worker
$ Mln      Z    Thousand        X          $        X
Agriculture             820      32         830       69          988      47
Industry               206        8          54        5         3815     182
Services               1492      60         318       26         4691     224
TOTAL/AVERAGE     2518      LOO        1202      100         2095     100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1978/79 1979/80  1981  1982  1983  1984    1984
Current Receipts                2161    2755  3329  3692  4401  4646         23
Current Expenditures            1847    2531  3325  5286  6201  5957         29
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314       224     4 -1594 -1800 -1307        -6
Capital Expenditure             2618    2492  3683  4017  2944  3100         15
Extrabudgetary Expenditure         -      523   792  1764   922   967         5
Overall Deficit                  848    2333  2949  5262  4807  4609         23
External Assistance, Net        1904      976  2436  2956  1752  1563         8
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
YRIs Million Outstanding End Pericd
1980      1981      1982     1983    1984
Money Supply                      9180       9905    12519    15967   20364
Domestic Credit                   4956       7273    11834    15981   20928
Of which:
Claims on Government           (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361) (16168)
Claims on Private Sector       (2939)    (3234)   (3380)   (3620)  (4760)
Percentages
1979/80   1981    1982      1983      1984
Money Supply as  percent of GNP       63       64      69        83       100
Annual Increase (percent) in:
Money Supply                      16        8      26        28        28
Consumer Price Index             11         5       3         5       13



- 2.5-                      ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ($ MKn)
1978/79   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Exports of Goods, fob                3       13     10       5     10      9
Imports of Goods, cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1952  -1765  -1403
Trade Balance                    -1247   -1902  -1738  -1947  -1755  -1394
Non Factor Services, net           -36      -21    -51    -37    -51    -45
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                      833    1084    788    924   1085    986
Official Grants                    312      148    337    468    186    142
Balance on Current Account        -138    -691   -664   -592   -535   -311
K & LT Capital, net a/             104      452    205    188    197    150
Disbursements on loans        (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (220)  (213)
Repayments of loans           (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-44)  (-23)  (-63)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net       204      200    198      93    125     65
Overall Balance (- = deficit)      170      -39   -261   -311   -213    -96
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                          DEBT SERVICES RATIO (1984) b/
(S million)                 1984                                        Z
Total Outstanding            2398          Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed           1688         Disbursed                     5.1
a/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
b/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
ElDA
February 1986



-26 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1986) a/
Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 (less cancellations)
Number  Year      Borrower                Purpose                        IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits fully disbursed                        118.9
794    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways III                     11.5       1.9
805    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture II            10.5       0.2
837    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Power Distribution               10.0        1.9
880    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture III           15.0        7.9
915    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Education III                    10.0       1.4
950    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0        11.3
978    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture IV             5.5       0.2
1025    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Fisheries Development            17.0       7.4
1067    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    S. Uplands Rural Dev. II         17.0 b/    2.1 b/
1122    1981    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development           12.0       1.2
1202    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Sanaa Urban Development          15.0       7.2
1203    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Education IV                     12.0       7.1
1216    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Petroleum & Geothermal Explor.  2.0         1.2
1259    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agr. Research and Development   6.0         2.3
1267    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways IV                       7.0       2.0
1294    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Health                           10.5       6.1
1308    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agricultural Credit               8.0       6.0
1340    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Education V                      10.0       8.4
1361    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Power III                        19.0      17.1
1413    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways V                       13.0      11.5
1441    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Urban II                         12.0      11.9
1453    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Central Highlands Ag. Devt.       8.0       7.8
1470    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Education VI                     10.0      10.0
1547 c/ 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development II         8.0       8.0
1556    1985    Yemen Arab Republic    TA to CPO                         4.7       4.7
1584 c/ 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Wadi Al Jawf Ag. Devt.           10.0      10.0
Total                                                  394.5 d/
of which has been repaid                               1.7
Total now held by IDA                                  392.8
Total undisbursed                                                156.8
a/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/ Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing
Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at the
time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
March 31, 1986, for the undisbursed amounts.
c/ Not yet effective.
d/ Excludes a credit of $12.7 million equivalent for a Technical Training project
approved by the Executive Directors on December 19, 1985, and a credit of $10.0
million equivalent for a Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development project, approved
by the Executive Directors on March 20, 1986, which are not yet signed.



-27 -                           ANNMX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
(Amount in $ millions)
Year            Obligor            Type of Business    Loan    Eguity    Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products       3.15        -       3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983/   Yemen Dry Batteries        Dry Cell Batteries  3.25       0.91      4.16
1985
1984    National Company for       Vegetable Oil        4.58        -       4.58
Vegetable Oil and Ghee
Industries
1986    Yemen Hunt Oil Company    Oil Refinery           9.00       -        9.00
1986    Marib Agriculture Company Citrus Fruit          2.40      0.46       2.86
Total Gross Commitments                        22.38      1.37     23.75
less cancellations, terminations,             2.35        -       2.35
repayments, sales
Total comitments now held by IFC               20.03      1.37     21.40
Total Disbursed                                17.26      0.47     17.73
Total Undisbursed                               2.77      0.90      3.67
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



-28 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE
PETROLEUM SECTOR
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT bATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                       8 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:         Ministry of Oil and Mineral
Resources
(c) First presentation to IDA:                 July 1985
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:            January 22, 1986
ge) Completion of negotiations:                April 23, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:             December 31, 1986
Section II. Special Implementation Action by IDA
Close coordination with cofinancing agencies will be maintained during
project implementation and supervision (paras. 51 and 52(iv)).
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) The satisfaction of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
agreements with USAID and the Netherlands (para. 49);
(ii) Appointment of the Management and Policy Advisor, the Refining,
Transportation and Distribution Advisor and the Accounting Advisor
(para. 52 (i)).
(b)    Other Conditions:
(i) Agreement was reached during negotiations on a timetable for the
appointment of the consulting firms that would undertake the following
studies: organization, training, gas utilization, accounting,
environmental protection, field development, project management and
preinvestment studies (para. 52 (iii));
(ii) Selection of the national counterparts to the resident advisors would
be undertaken by October 31, 1986 and their work programs would be
submitted to IDA by December 31, 1986 (para. 52 (ii)).



YEMEN ARAB REPUBUC TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
ACTIVITY/rASK             1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
RESIDENT ADVISORS                                     _
STUDIES
ORGANIZATION
FIELD DEVELOPMENT
GAS UTIUZATION
ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION
ACCOUNTING
PROJECT MGMT & INVESTMENT STUDIES        ,         .._ _ 
MANAGEMENT INFO. SYSTEM
EXPLORAION & PROD. DATA BASE                v               I              -
TRAINING                                   rr, ,         ZZ  :z
O       .    .. U       EXD.FO OE  __ _                                                     11 _    R
'R. ADVISORS COULD SE PARTLY EXTENDED FOR ONE YEAR ASD ON ACTUAL REQUIREMEN               I '



30                              ANNEX V
Page 1 of 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
MANAGEMENT AND POLICY ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       The Covernment of the Yemen Arab Republic (COY) has recently applied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to provide technical and administrative advice to the Ministry of Oil
and Mineral Resources (MOMR) on management and policy issues. To this end COY
plans to contract the services of an experienced Management and Policy
Advisor.
Scope of Work
2.       The Management and Policy Advisor would perform the following tasks:
(i)   cooperate closely with the Minister and perform specific tasks
as required;
(ii)  advise the MOMR on implications of proposed policies and
decisions;
(iii) assist in the decision making process;
(iv)  assist the Project Coordinator in coordinating the activities
of the resident advisors; and
(v)   assist the Project Coordinator in project implementation.
Advisor's Profile, Timing and Reporting
3.       The Management and Policy Advisor should have a minimum of 25 years
operating experience in oiL and gas policy and operations, with at least 10
years executive management positions is required. Experience in Middle
Eastern countries and ability to read and speak Arabic is considered a strong
advantage.



-31 -                              ANNEX V
Page 2 of 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (GOY) has recently appLied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to obtain assistance for controlling and monitoring the exploration and
production activities in the petroleum sector. The main objective is to
permit its newly created Ministry of Oil and Minerals Resources (MOMR) to:
ti)    evaluate the technical aspects of the operating decisions in
the areas of exploration and production made or proposed by
the operating companies and contractors in YAR;
(ii)   provide technical advice to MOMR and the Government regarding
specialized studies made by consultants and advisors to MOMR;
(iii) liaise with the consultants preparing these studies; and
(iv)   support and coordinate training for MOMR personnel in the area
of exploration and production.
For this purpose, GOY plans to contract the services of an experi-
enced Exploration and Production Advisor.
Scope of Work
2.       The Exploration and Production Advisor would perform the following
tasks:
(a)    dealing on a day to day basis with all the problems related to
exploration and production;
(b)    analyzing all the major work and expenditures proposals
submitted to MOMR and providing advice to MOMR regarding these
proposals;
(c)    advising MOMR about the various studies needed before taking
major decisions in the area of geophysics and regional
geology, reservoir studies, development plans/alternatives and
any other technical problems during the exploration and
production stage;
(d)    assisting with the selection of specialized consultants to
perform these studies or other specialized tasks, and function
as a liaison with these consultants;



-32 -                              ANNEX V
Page 3 of 13
(e)    participating in technicaL meetings with operating companies,
and providing advice to MOMR regarding the matters discussed
in such meetings; and
(f)    carrying out and coordinating the technical training of
personnel in the area of exploration and production.
Advisor's Profile, Timing and Reporting
3.       The Exploration and Production Advisor should have a minimum of 15
years of relevant operating experience. He could be either:
(a)    a geologist with a practical knowledge of petroleum
engineering (on the level of exploration manager) involved in
exploration and field development; or
(b)    a petroleum engineer with a practical knowledge of geology and
geophysics (on the level of operating manager or head of
production).
The candidate should have extensive experience in reservoir and
subsurface geology, reservoir engineering, more general experience in all
techniques related to oil exploration (seismic and regional geology),
drilling, production and exploration contracts negotiations. Working:
knowledge of Arabic would be beneficial.
4.       Work is expected to start in Sanaa on or about October 1, 1986.
Within two months of commencement of the assignment, the Advisor will submit a
report on his initial findings and his proposals for further work. Following
review of the Advisor's report, the Government will authorize the commencement
of the additional tasks outlined in para. 2, which will be carried out over a
thirty-six (36) month period. At the end of this period the Advisor will
submit a full report summarizing the results of his work.



ANNEX V
33                             Page 4 of 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
REFINING, TRANSPORTATION AND DISTRIBUTION ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (GOY) has recently applied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to obtain assistance for monitoring the activities of contractors
operating in the Yemen Arab Republic and support the activities of its own
institutions in the petroleum sector. The main objective is to permit its
newly created Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MONR) to:
(i)    evaluate the technical aspects of the operating decisions in
the areas of crude oil refining/gas pipelines and transporta-
tion systems made or proposed by the operating companies and
contractors in YAR;
(ii)   provide technical advice to MOMR and GOY regarding the
technical proposals of these companies;
(iii)  provide technical advice to MOMR regarding the specialized
studies made by consultants and advisors;
(iv)   liaise with the consultants preparing these studies;
(v)    support and coordinate training for MOMR personnel in the area
of pipelines and petroleum transportation systems; and
(vi)   evaluate the implications of refining crude oil on the
domestic market.
To this end GOY plans to contract the services of an experienced
Refining, Transportation and Distribution Advisor.
Scope of Work
2.       The Refining, Transportation and Distribution Advisor will perform
the following tasks:
(i)    review the design and engineering of the oil and gas pipelines
and transportation systems, terminal installations, storage
systems and marine terminals;



-34 -                               ANNEX V
Page 5 if 13
(ii)   evaluate proposals by contractors and provide advice to GOY in
negotiating contracts for constructing and operating pipelines
and transportation systems;
(iii) carry out and coordinate technical training of operating and
maintenance personnel in the areas of gas and oil pipelines,
terminal installations, storage systems and marine terminals;
(iv)   prepare refinery production programs and material balances to
meet local demand; establish criteria for measuring
performance including refinery losses and products yield;
tv)    review weekly/monthly reports and advise MOMR on corrective
measures to be taken in case of deviations from production
targets; review costing procedures used to calculate refining
margins;
(vi)   plan maintenance schedules; conduct troubLeshooting and advise
management on modifications required to improve refinery
operations;
(vii) prepare terms of reference to engage consultants to carry out
economic studies relating to petroleum refining, transporta-
tion and distribution; and
(viii) carry out and coordinate the technical training of YAR
personnel in petroleum transport and refining.
Advisor's Profile, Timing and Reporting
3.       The Refining, Transportaticn and Distribution Advisor should have a
minimum of 15 years of operating experience in designing, constructing and
operating pipelines for crude oil and gas, with particular experience in
mu'ltiproduct pipelines, telemetry, telecontrol, booster pump stations and
compressors. The advisor shouLd be familiar with international standards of
petroleum/gas transportation systems specifications, planning and cost
estimating. Experience in refining and processing is also required. The
advisor should be familiar with processes as hydrotreating and catalytic
reforming and with international standards for petroleum products. Working
knowledge of Arabic would be beneficial.
4.       Work is expected to start in Sanaa on or about July 1, 1986.  Within
two montns after the commencement of his assignment, the Advisor will submit a
report on nis initial findings and his proposals for further work. Following
review of the Advisor's report, the Government will authorize the commencement
of additional tasks outlined in para. 2, which will be carried out over a 36
month period. At the end of this period, the Advisor will submit a full
report on the results of his work.



-35 -                          Aui  V
Page 6 of 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
ACCOUNTING/AUDITING ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (GOY) has recently applied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to obtain assistance for monitoring the activities of contractors
operating in the Yemen Arab Republic and support the activities of its own
institutions in the petroleum sector. The main objective is to permit its
newly created Ministry of Oil and Minerals Resources (MOMR) to establish a
modern accounting and cost control system that will permit the Government and
MOM to effectively account for and monitor expenditures incurred by oil
companies and its own institutions in exploration and production. To this end
COY plans to contract the services of an experienced petroleum accounting/
auditor.
Scope of Work
2.       The Accounting/Auditing Advisor would perform the following tasks:
(i)    review MOMR's existing systems for cost accounting, financial
reporting, internal control and audit of exploration/
production expenses;
(ii)   on the basis of this review, draw up a program of accounting
procedures and design a set of standards and procedures for
verifying exploration/production expenses, including
computerization of the system;
(iii)  assist the Government on the inclusion of the recommended
accounting procedures and financial controls in the model
exploration/production agreement;
(iv)   cooperate with the consulting firms implementing the
accounting study and the management information system
financed under the project;
(v)    review and report to MOMR on the progress in implementing the
new system; and
(vi)   carry out and coordinate the training of YAR personnel in the
area of accounting, auditing and internal control.



-36-                                 ANNEX V
Page 7 of 13
Advisor'r Profile, Timing and Reporting
3.       The Accounting/Auditing Advisor should be a petroleum accountant with
a minimum of 15 years experience in accounting practices of the international
petroleum industry. Working knowledge of Arabic would be considered a strong
advantage.
4.       Work is expected to start in Sanaa on or about July 1, 1986.  Within
three months from the commencement of his assignment, the Advisor will submit
a report on his initial findings and his proposals for further work on tasks
described in para. 2. Following review of the Advisor's report, the
Government will authorize the commencement of the work on tasks outlined in
para. 2. The work will be carried out over a thirty-six (36) month period.
At the end of this period, the Advisor will submit a full report on the
results of his work.



-37 -                          ANNEX V
Page 8 of 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
PROCUREMENT/COSTING ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (GOY) has recently applied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to obtain assistance for improving the cost control and procurement
procedures in the sector. The main objective of this assistance will be to
help establish and develop methods and systems that will enable the Government
and the Ministry of Oil and Minerals Resources (MOMR) to: (i) effectively
control the chargeable costs and expenditures incurred by the contractors in
exploration and production of hydrocarbons and other related activities; and
(ii) evaluate the procurement procedures applied by the contractors operating
in Yemen. To this end COY plans to contract the services of an experienced
Procurement/Costing Advisor.
Scope of Work
2.       The Procurement/Costing Advisor would perform the following tasks:
(a)    review the reports submitted by contractors, to ascertain the
appropriateness of the applied costing and procurement
procedures;
(b)    verify and control submitted cost reports and advise the
Government and MOMO on eligibility of the various costs and
expenditures as chargeable categories;
(c)    review and evaluate the bidding documents including
advertising, prequalification, post-qualification, criteria
for bid analysis and contracting in accordance with approved
procedures; design forms to be used in procurement in
cooperation with MOMN's legal and technical departments;
(d)    review the existing costing and procurements methods of OMOH
and recommend improvements of these methods;
(e)    prepare recommended suppliers' lists in consdltation with the
operating departments of MOMR, review stocks and develop
procedures for improving stock management;
(f)    review and comment on contracts for the supply of goods and
services; and



-38 -                             ANNEX V
Page 9 of 13
(g)    carry out and coordinate the training of YAR personnel in the
areas of costing and procurement.
Advisor's Profile, Timing and Reporting
3.       A Procurement/Costing Specialist with 10-15 years experience in in
the international petroleum industry is required. Working knowledge of Arabic
would be considered a strong advantage.
4.       Work is expected to start in Sanaa on or about October 1, 1986.
Within two months from the commencement of his assignment, the Advisor will
submit a report on his initial findings and his proposals for further work.
Following review of the Advisor's report, the Government will authorize the
commencement of the additional tasks outlined in para. 2, which will be
carried out over a thirty-six (36) month period. At the end of this period,
the Advisor will submit a full report on the results of his work.



ANE  V
Page 10 of 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
LEGAL ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (GOY) has applied for a
credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to obtain legal assistance in dealing with various legal matters
related to existing and future activities of contractors and companies
operating in the Yemen Arab Republic and to provide legal advice to the newly
created Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MOHR) and other Government
institutions in the petroleum sector. To this end COY plans to contract the
services of an experienced legal advisor with specific experience in the legal
aspects of the international petroleum industry.
Scope of Work
2.       The Legal Advisor would perform the following tasks:
(i)    facilitate the granting of necessary permits and approvals;
(ii)   counsel the Government and MOMR on policy matters including
those arising from ongoing negotiations, and interpretation
and implementation of existing contractual and legal
arrangements;
(iii)  assist in the conduct of ongoing negotiations/dialogue between
MOMR and operating companies; and
(iv)   carry out and coordinate training of YAR legal personnel in
the area of petroleum legislation.
Advisor's Profile, Timing and Reporting
3.       The Legal Advisor should be a licensed attorney with a minimum of
fifteen years experience in the international petroleum industry's legal
practices and have complete fluency in both English and Arabic. He should
have a broad knowledge of the workings of the international petroleum industry
and exrensive experience in the negotiations, drafting, monitoring and
administration of contracts dealing with exploration, development and
production of petroleum, including all related subsidiary and ancillary
contracts and sub-contracts. The Advisor should also have substantial
experience in various petroleum taxation and fiscal regimes as well as a firm
grasp of industry-wide audit, budget, cost control and procurement
procedures. The Advisor must be able to interface easily with various levels
of Government entities, successfully intermediate between the Government and
the private sector and assist ongoing negotiations/dialogue between them.



- 40                               ANNE  V
Page 11 of 13
4.       Work is expected to start in Sanaa on or about October 1, 1986.
Within two months of commencement of the assignment, the Advisor will submit a
report on his initial findings and his proposals for further work. Following
review of the Advisor's report, the Government will authorize the commencement
of the additional tasks outlined in para. 2, which will be carried out over a
36 month period. At the end of this period, the Advisor will submit a full
report on the results of his work.



-41 -                            ANNEX V
Page 12 of 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
TRAINING ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       The Covernment of the Yemen Arab Republic (GOY) has recently applied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to obtain technical assistance for the training of the personnel of the
Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MOMR). To this end GOY plans to
contract services of an experienced training advisor.
Scope of Work
2.       The Training Advisor would perform the following tasks:
i;      collect and evaluate data regarding available training
opportunities;
(ii)    cooperate with the other advisors of MOMR in preparing a
master plan for training;
(iii)   supervise the implementation of the master plan;
(iv)    prepare the program for and participate in the selection of
individuals to be trained;
Cv)     coordinate with USAID and other institutions in the
preparation and implementation of the training program
provided by USAID, including the English language courses;
(vi)    coordinate various types of training available from foreign
contractors, local educational institutions, short term
courses abroad, courses provided by foreign consultants and
contractors in YAR, etc; and
(vii)   cooperate closely with the Manager of Administration and
Personnel in NOMR in the evaluation, selection, and
instatement of the personnel to be trained.
Advisor's Profile, Timing and Reporting
3.       The Training Advisor should have a minimum of 15 years operating
experience in training wich a major oil company or a similar institution
active in exploration, production, refining, marketing, etc., is required,
with a minimum of five years experience in Middle Eastern countries. Ability
to read and speak Arabic would be an advantage.



- 42 -                            ANNEX V
Page 13 of 13
4.       Work is expected to start in Sanaa on or about October 1, 1986.
Within two months of comencement of the assignment, the Advisor will submit a
report on his initial findings and his proposals for further work. Following
review of the Advisor's report, the Government will authorize the cuimencement
of the additional tasks outlined in para. 2, which will be carried out over a
36 month period. At the end of this period, the Advisor will submit a full
report on the results of his work.



ANNEX VI
- 43 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
IDA                                         CREDIT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
FISCAL YEAR                                                   CUMULATIVE
(Quarter)                     Local       Foreign        Local         Foreign
1987 (Quarter)
I
II
III                         0.03         0.32         0.03            0.32
IV                         0.03         0.32         0.06            0.64
1988 (Quarter)
1                         0.08         0.70         0.14            1.34
II                         0.10         0.80         0.24            2.14
III                         0.10         0.80         0.34            2.94
IV                         0.08         0.80         0.42            3.74
1989 (Quarter)
I                         0.08         1.00         0.50            4.74
II                         0.06         1.00         0.56            5.74
III                         0.06         0.80         0.62            6.54
IV                         0.06         0.80         0.68            7.34
1990 (Quarter)
1                         0.05         0.60         0.73            7.94
II                         0.05         0.60         0.78            8.54
III                         0.05         0.40         0.83            8.94
IV                         0.05         0.30         0.88            9.24
1991 (Quarter)
I                         0.04         0.30         0.92            9.54
II                         0.04         0.30         0.96            9.84
III                         0.04         0.30         1.00           10.14
IV                          0.04         0.20         1.04           10.34
1992 (Quarter)
I                          0.02         0.20         1.06           10.54
II                          0.02         0.15         1.08           10.69
III                          0.01         0.11         1.09           10.80
IV                          0.01         0.10         1.10           10.90



_    -4 _                          ANNEX VIZ.
YME ARAB REPUBLIC
TENICAL ASSISTANCE PETRDOLUK
FOR THE PETROLEUMI SECTOR
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PRICES (January 1986)
(YR1s/litre)
Retail Price
Product                       YR/L                  US$/GAL
Gasollne                      3.0                    1.31
Kerosene                      3.15                   1.0
Gas oil/diesel                2.0                    0.87
Fuel oil                      1.72                   0.75
LPG (per cyllider of
12.5 kg in weight)          1.34                   1.70
March. 1986



ANNEX VIII (1)
Page i of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
ORGANIZATION STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.       The Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MOMR) of the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) is interested to acquire the services of a consulting firm to
study and recommend the organizational structure of the Ministry and the
petroleum sector in order to ensure maximum efficiency in its different
activities.
Background
2.       Prior to the discovery of oil and gas, responsibility for the
marketing of imported petroleum products and for mineral exploration was
vested in the Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO) a publicly
owned, semi-autonomous entity. Three entities were merged into YOMINCO in
1978, namely the Yemen Petroleum Company (YPC), responsible for the import,
transport and marketing of refined oil products in YAR; the Geological Survey
Board (GSB) in charge of geological surveys and exploration for oil, minerals,
water and geothermal resources; and the Yemen Salt Mining Company, in charge
of limited salt mining operations. GSB had about 160 employees, including 40
professionals, and YPC about 50 employees, including 10 technical staff.
3.       Following the discovery of oil, a cabinet level Supreme Council for
Oil and Mineral Resources (SCOMR) was established to develop and monitor the
activities related to oil exploration and production. SCOMR operates
essentially as a committee of the Cabinet and its mpmbers include the key
ministers responsible for policy making in this sector.
4.       Subsequently, in late 1985 a new Ministery for Oil and Mineral
Resources (MOMR) was established to replace YOMINCO to implement policies and
carry out day to day operations in the sector. Under the Minister, managerial
responsibility for the MOMR is shared by two Deputy Ministers, one for oil and
gas, and one for minerals. There are also four General Directors; one each
for planning and statistics, legal affairs, training, and financial control.
However, this structure is not yet in existence, mainly due to the lack of
qualified personnel.
5.       MOMR will not have, in the near future, any direct responsibility for
petroleum operations (these responsibilities being entrusted to operating
companies) but it will have to closely monitor and supervise these operations,
to ascertain that they are conducted following commonly accepted oil industry
practices, and to give its agreement for major decisions involving important
financial issues.
6.       In order to meet these different goals, a study of the organization
of MOMR and the petroleum sector is planned. It would mainly involve the oil
and gas section. This is justified since the mineral section has been
operating for many years, and is not expected to be taking a large number of
important and urgent decisions.



- 46 -
ANNEX VIII (1)
Page 2 of 3
7.       In order to meet these different goals consultancy services are
sought to carry an organizational study of MOMR and the petroleum sector. The
main objectives and the scope of the study are outlined in the following
sections. Consultants will be required to formulate plans for each phase
separately.
Objectives
8.       The objectives of the study are as follows:
(a)  to analyze activities in which MOMR is currently engaged and to
identify areas where improvements are needed;
(b)  to review the institutional framework in which MONR operates and
analyze the effect of that framework on MOMR's present and future
activities;
(c)  to formulate a short term organization plan, with a view to improving
the effectiveness and efficiency of MOMR in handling current
activities and, at the same time, satisfying the objectives of MOMN
within the existing institutional framework; and
(d)  to formulate a long term strategy and development plan for MOMR
organizational structure and for the modification of the existing
institutional framework consistent with these long term activities
and operations.
Scope of Work
9.       The organization study would be divided into three phases defined as
follows:
9.1      Phase 1 - Analysis of Existing Organization:
(a) Define the overall objectives of MOMR and the scope of
activities necessary to support these objectives as compared to
MOMNK's current activities and assess the effectiveness of MOMN
in meeting the prescribed objectives; and
(b) review existing MOMR organization and operations related to each
of the aforementioned activities and define MONR's management
and operational procedures (decision making, line of command
etc.); to identify manpower requirements, including an
assessment of the efficiency of interdepartmental coordination.
9.2      Phase 2 - Short-term Planning:
(a) define the managerial and operational requirements for various
activities of MOMR with special emphasis online of command,
decision making, reporting and monitoring system, staff
qualifications and responsibilities, and functional and
administrative support required. (This component will be
prepared, as far as staff qualification is concerned, in close
cooperation with the consultant in charge of the training study
under the project);



ANEX VIII (1)
-47 -                        Page 3 of 3
(b) develop alternative organizational structures and recomend (if
necessary) a revised organization structure for MOMR;
(c) analyze the applicability and requirements for each alternative
organization and assist MOMR in the selection of the most
suitable structure and the establishment of a timetable to
modify the organization;
(d) develop a personnel management policy and related administrative
guidelines for each level of staff, covering job classification,
performance evaluation, and orientation; and
(e)  recommend measures to enable MOMR to attract and retain
qualified personnel.
9.3      Phase 3 - Long-term Planning:
(a) investigate the areas of activity in which MOMR is likely to be
engaged in the future;
(b) determine the organizational, manpower and office requirements
needed to enable MOMR to cover the desired activities; and
(c) develop alternatives to the existing organizational structure
giving special attention to the creation of semi-autonomous
entities, similar to those existing in other sectors.
Consultant's Profile
10.      The assignment will be carried out by a suitably qualified and
experienced consulting firm specialized in management and institutional
development. Experience in designing organizational systems for institutions
and companies in developing countries and, in particular, in the Middle East
is essential.



-48 -                       ANNEX VIII (2)
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
REVIEW OF THE ALIF OIL FIELD DEVELOPMENT PLAN
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
IIntroduction
1.       The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (GOY) has recently applied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to support the activities of its own institutions in the petroleum
sector, and obtain assistance for monitoring the activities of contractors
operating in the Yemen Arab Republic. One of the objectives is to permit its
newly created Ministry of Oil and Minerals Resources (MOMR), to monitor the
development of the Alif field by YEPC.
2.       MOMR intends to have a consulting firm prepare a study covering the
various problems related to the development of the Alif oil field. The
consulting firm will review various possibilities to formulate a development
policy, and forecast the economic and financial results of such policy
options.
3.       The consulting firm selected to perform this work should be
internationally recognized, with at least 10 years of experience in similar
activities. It should have developed its own expertise in various aspects of
oil and gas production activities and in computer applications. The firms
applying for the work are expected to provide adequate qualification
references, as well as experienced key personnel in charge of different phases
of the project. Those firms will also consider the results of their study as
entirely confidential and are expected to sign a confidentiality agreement
with MOMR.
4.       The Alif oil field, located in the Marib basin, is the first
hydrocarbon discovery in this basin. It is a large structural trap, split
into several compartments by faults. Each compartment seems to behave as a
separate unit with different gas/oil contacts and oil/water contacts, and
should probably be evaluated separately. The main compartment produces from a
sandy reservoir approximately 600' thick, with at least one shaly streak. The
oil column is about 150' thick, with a gas cap of 500' maximum thickness.
There is no similar field in the vicinity to be used as a model (for such
factors as water drive).
5.       The different stages of this study should be as follows:  firstly,
collection of all available data in MOMR offices. These data include:
-    Seismic profiles.  About    miles, covering the field itself and
immediate surroundings, plus corresponding location maps.



-49-                       ANN%  VIII (2)
Page 2 of 3
-    Well data.       weLls have been drilled to date.  In each of
them a complete set of Schlumberger logo have been run,
(namely              ) with a computer processed interpretation
(CSU or similar).  About _   meter of core have been recovered,
and the following measurement has been performed:
on a spacing of                 .      tests have been performed
(_  DST and -  production tests).
6.       Starting from these data, a geological model will be built, which
should include:
-    Isobaths maps for the top and the bottom of the reservoir, and
intermediate horizons if needed.
-    Preparation of a set of maps for each layer and for the total
reservoir (isopach, isoporosity, iso net-pay, etc.).
-    Preparation of a sedimentological model if needed.
-    Cross plots will also be prepared, such as porosity versus
permeability, water saturation versus depth, etc.
7.       In a first stage, values for Sw, porosity, etc. to be used in the
model will be those provided by Schlumberger interpretation, crosschecked
versus those derived from core measurements. In the case of major
discrepancies a reprocessing of Schlumberger logs, using consulting firm own
software will be required.
8.       A digital reservoir model (2 or 3 dimensions) will then be
constructed, by digitizing all aforementioned data, and other informations
such as these derived from testing (a detailed interpretation of the various
tests has already been prepared by contractor in charge of operations, and
will be used in a first stage; if needed, some reinterpretation will be
prepared by the consulting firm).
9.       Reserves in-place (oil, gas from gas-cap, dissolved gas) will be
evaluated using volumetric method and if needed statistic methods (such aS
Monte Carlo method).
10.      Simulations will be performed for future production.  Several
scenarios will be considered by using different values for main parameters.
Each of these scenarios will specify the number of wells to be drilled and
their timing, the needed modifications in surface facilities, and ultimate
recoveries for oil, gas and LPG. The risks of gas and/or water encroachment
would be of specific concern. Maximum safe production rates will be
determined, with related suggested completion practice. The probability of
early gas and/or water injection or reinjection will also be considered, with
their impact of aforementioned results.
11.      A schematic economic and financial evaluation for each of the
production scenarios will be prepared. The purpose of these evaluations is to
emphasize the major differences in investment (total value and timing) in
depletion, hydrocarbon production and ultimate recovery. This evaluation
should clearly indicate the main financial consequences of the various



50 -                         ANNmEX IvI  (2)
Page 3 of 3
production scenarios, including yearly revenues, depletion and costs based on
information provided by COY and calculated in current prices.
12.      It is the intention of MOMR to keep the selected consulting firm on a
retainer basis to:
-    Bring up-to-date the geological and reservoir models.
-    Match the simulation results versus the production history and
adjust the results accordingly.
-    Advise MOMR on the validity of the production policy followed by
YEPC and its future consequences.
13.      At least two Yemeni geologists or engineers are exrected to
participate in the whole study, as trainees. They will be exposed to the
various components of the project (and eventually to similar projects under
study, if no problem of confidentiality arises) and will be later responsible
for its continuation in MOMR organization.
14.      The results of the study will be provided in a report including all
analytical data, and the results of each of the separate phases, including a
summary of the conclusions. During the preparation of the work, a monthly
progress report will be submitted to MOMR. At the completion of the work, a
presentation of the results will be organized either in Sana'a or at the
consulting firm's office. The consulting firm is also expected to provide
short term assistance to MOMR, by sending one or two of their representatives,
at MOMR's request, for any technical meeting where their presence could be
needed.



- 51 -                    ANNEX VIII (3)
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
GAS UTILIZATION STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
General
1.       The Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MOMR) of the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) is interested to acquire the services of a consulting firm to
undertake a gas utilization study.
2.       YAR had no commercial energy resources and the country's energy
requirements were met by traditional domestic resources (fuel wood, crop
residues and animal wastes) and imported petroleum products. Traditional
sources of energy met approximately 60Z of total energy consumption (about 2.3
million toe) and the balance was supplied by imported petroleum products.
Approximately 3 million tons (1.35 toe) of fuelwood have been consumed
annually, mostly by households resulting in severe deforestation. The
scarcity of fuelvood has encouraged substitution with kerosene and LPG for
cooking. The economic activity since the early 1970s coupled with high
population growth, modernization and urbanization has led to a rapid increase
in energy consumption which has averaged 20X annually over the last decade.
While growth rates in petroleum product consumption have declined since 1980,
the share of commercial energy is expected to increase significantly in the
1990s.
3.       In July 1984, oil and gas was discovered in the Marib Basin in the
eastern part of the country. This discovery appears to be significant
compared to the country's energy consumption. The estimated recoverable
reserves reach 400 million bbls of oil and 2.5 TCF of gas in-place in the Alif
field only. In addition, non-associated gas has also been discovered in two
other structures.
Objectives
4.       YAR intends to exploit its gas resources to achieve the following
main objectives:
(a) reduce the country's dependence on imported petroleum products;
(b) provide a source oi energy to support the Government's
investment program to industrialize the country: and
(c) utilize associated gas to provide cheaper fuel for power
generation, industry, commercial and domestic consumers.
Scope of work
5.       The consulting firm will carry out the following services:



- 52 -                    ANNEX VIII (3)
Page 2 of 2
(a) Review the data available and the existing studies to quantify
supply sources of both associated and non-associated gas. Gas
could be partly reinjected for maintaining reservoir pressure to
support the production profile and should be accordingly
considered before evaluating quantities of gas available for the
local market.
LPC Production
(b) Review the oil field production facilities and study LPC
recovery from the full stream of associated gas from both high
and low pressure separators.
(c) Study LPG market demand and growth rates until the year 2000.
Consider marketing separately commercial propane and
propane/butane mixture to local specifications and recommend
possible changes in such specifications to balance supply/
demand and the implications for available stocks of LPG
cylinders and appliances and how to penetrate the market with
alternative mixtures.
(d) Study and recommend means of transport fcr bulk LPG and
cylinders and identify distribution centers based on consumption
rates of different locations. Size marketing depots with their
storage facilities and filling plants.
Ce) Evaluate costs of implementing marketing installations and carry
out economic analysis of alternative distribution modes.
Gas Transmission and Distribution
(f) Study potential consumers in the power, industrial, commercial
and domestic sectors and evaluate consumption until year 2000.
(g) Evaluate the cost of gas transmission and distribution to
potential consumers including the conversion from other fuels to
gas in existing plants.
(h) Compare costs of gas utilization with other fuels and recommend
appropriate gas tariffs.
Ci) Study the institutional aspects of LPC and gas distribution and
recommend an organizational structure for such a gas utility
operating under MOMR as an autonomous entity.
Other Gas Uses
(j) It is expected that gas supply will exceed demand in both the
short and long term. The consultant will investigate other uses
of gas in the transport sector and in the cheraical industry. In
the absence of a local refinery large enough to meet the demand
for commercial energy, study other alternatives to substitute
petroleum products and enhance industrial development using gas
as an energy source.



53 -                        ANNEX VIII (4)
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background and Objectives
1.       Large production of petroleum in YAR has a potential for serious
pollution problems. Since such problems would be new to YAR, it is unlikely
that the Government would possess capabilities to adequately protect water
resources and the environment within its organizational and legislative
structure. Furthermore, it is unlikely that there are sufficient numbers of
adequately trained personnel within the government to implement any such
legislative mandates.
The Government intends to obtain consulting services to undertake the
following:
o Assess the adequacy of existing legislation and organization for
effective control of pollution from oil development, and the
provision of a proper regulatory framework for environmental
protection.
o Prepare appropriate national legislation for effective pollution
control.
o Prepare an assessment of staffing needs and training requirements
to ensure effective enforcement of the national legislation.
Qualifications
2.       The contractor selected would be required to demonsttate competence
and experience in a multidisciplinary range of skills. These would include
the following areas:
o Experience with related issues, particularly in developing
countries, preferably in the Middle East.
o Water resources planning for petroleum industry development in
arid areas, preferably in the Middle East.
O Development of environmental protection legislation for
developing countries.
o   Pollution control requirements and technologies for petroleum
resource development and associated infrastructures.
O   Development and implementation of environmental monitoring
programs for developing countries.



54-                         ANNEX VIII (4)
Page 2 of 4
a Sociological experience in impacts of industrial development upon
social and cultural patterns of developing countries.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.       Assessment of Government Organizations and Resources
3.1      The consultant will analyze the existing government organizational
structure of YAR in order to define the type of environmental unit(s) needed
and how it (they) best be organized within the existing framework.
3.2      The selected unit(s)/organization should be designed in such a
fashion as to allow effective implementation and enforcement of environmental
legislation and monitoring programs.
3.3      The consultant will prepare an estimate of manpower requirements
(both numbers and skills) needed for staffing the unit(s) and determine the
extent to which these resources currently exist within YAR.
3.4      A report will be prepared describing the above activities and the
results of the efforts. Estimates of manpower needs and training requirements
will also be provided.
4.       Pollution Control Guidelines
4.1      For each of the planned phases of petroleum resources development,
the consultant will prepare a report which will indicate:
o A brief description of the process or the principle of equipment
operation.
O Major pollution discharges and their location in the process:
gases, liquids, -olids.
O The major contaminants of each pollution stream and the
contamination or poisonous hazards they present to air, water,
crops, animals and people.
o Currently available pollution control equipment for each
discharge and recommended equipment for environmental conditions
in YAR:
Costs (local, foreign exchange)
Removal efficiencies
Energy requirements
Special requirements - e.g., manpower skills
4.2      Reports will be prepared for the following operations:
Petroleum resource development: exploration, development and
production.
Refining



-~~~~~~~~~~~5  -
AlUIEZ VIII (4)
Page 3 of 4
Pipeline: Construction and operation
Port/Harbor transfer terminals (including tanker requirements).
5.       Environmental Monitoring Program
5.1      Based upon the pollution discharges identified for each of the
petroleum operations considered in Section 4, the consultant will develop an
environmental monitoring program.
5.2      The program will identify monitoring and laboratory needs and
consider source monitoring of gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes, and
environmental monitoring of surface and groundwaters, and ambient air quality.
5.3      A monitoring network will be designed for air and water quality
(surface and groundwater) which will include location of stations, parameters
to be measured and required equipment. If necessary, an environmental
laboratory (air, water, solids) will be designed.
6.       Manpower Resources:
6.1      The consultant will determine necessary training requirements for
existing manpower resources within YAR to effectively implement the
environmental legislation.
6.2      Skills currently available will be assessed, and the types of
programs and curriculum needed will be datailed. Budgetary requirements and
schedules for implementation will also be presented.
6.3      To the extent possible, a survey will be conducted to determine
training programs currently available to meet these needs (pollution control
in the oil industry, environmental monitoring, and water resources planning
for petroleum development), and training programs which must be developed to
meet the special needs of government staff.
7.       Preparation of Environment/Health and Safety Legislation and
Regulations
7.1      The contractor will prepare a review of existing national legislation
covering environment, health and safety aspects of petroleum exploration,
development, refining, pipeline traDsport, port and harbor transfers.
7.2      The review will examine regulations of both developing and developed
countries wherein well established petroleum infrastructure exists.
7.3      The contractor will then prepare a draft set of emission standards
for liquids, gases and solid wastes generated for each of the phases of
petroleum resource development.
7.4      Standards for air and water (surface and groundwater) quality will
also be established in air sheds and water bodies located at or near petroleum
industry and/or related facilities.



- 56 -                         ANNEX VrII  (4)
Page 4 of 4
7.5      Appropriate standards of occupational health and safety are to be
formulated for each phase of petroleum resource development.
7.6      When applicable World Bank environmental guidelines will be used as a
framework. Standards may be more stringent than World Bank guidelines, but
not more lax.
7.7      Finally, the contractor will prepare draft legislation based upon the
standards of emissions, air and water quality and occupational health and
safety previously established.
8.       Water Resource. Planning for Petroleum Industry
8.1      Estimates of water requirements in the context of the sustained
petroleum resource development programu will be developed, and an assessment
provided on the adequacy of water resources to meet existing and projected
basic human needs as well as requirements for energy development.
8.2      An analysis of the potential impact of water pollution from energy
resource development upon wateL _e rpatterns and lifestyle of the population
is to be performed. The analysis is to identify critical factors and the
potential for pollutitig surface and groundwaters.
8.3      Finally, the study will recommend appropriate measures for resolving
issues of water supply and water pollution.
9.       Assessment and Mitigation of Social and Cultural Imp :ts
9.1      The consultant will perform an assessment of likely impacts
(beneficial and adverse) upon the socio-economic and cultural patterns of
peoples affected by petroleum resource development in YAR, and identify most
critical areas and likely adverse consequences in the absence of mitigating
measures. Of particular concern will be issues such as influxes of large
expatriate communities and their requisite infrastructure and boom-town
effects.
9.2      World Bank Guidelines for resettlement and tribal peoples (OMS 2.33-
2.34) will be reviewed. The necessary programs of both government and
petroleum industry to implement petroleum development in a fashion consistent
with these guidelines will be delineated.
9.3      Finally, recommendations are to be prepared to eliminate or reduce
any adverse impacts upon the social and cultural fabric of peoples most likely
to be affected by the petroleum development.



-57 -ANNEX VIII (5)
Page 1 of 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
ACCOUNTING STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.       The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (COY) has recently applied
for a credit from the International Development Association for a Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector and intends to use part of the
credit to support the activities of its own institutions in the petroleum
sector and to obtain assistance for monitoring the activities of contractors
operating in the Yemen Arab Republic. The general objective is to permit its
newly created Ministry of Oil and Minerals Resources (MOHR), to establish a
modern accounting and control system that will permit the Government and MOMR
to effectively account for and monitor the resources and expenditures of its
own institutions and of oil companies.
Objectives of the Study
2.       The specific objective of the study is to examine the existing
financial and accounting systems and internal controls of MOHR and to
formulate an appropriate program for improvements taking into consideration
the information and reporting requirements of COY creditors.
Phase One
3.       The consultant will study and document the existing accounting and
internal control procedures and systems in use at MOMR and will identify all
areas of weakness.
4.       Based on the evaluation of the existing procedures and systems, the
consultant will recommend:
(a) improvements necessary to adhere to generally accepted
international accounting practices and principles;
(b) improvements to ensure that COY is regularly supplied with up-
to-date financial and operational data;
{c) improvements necessary to ensure that the internal control
system meets generally accepted international standards; and
(d) improvemeuts to ensure that the information needs of appropriate
external parties are met.
5.       Special attention should be paid to potential growth of activities
controlled by MOM to ensure that the recommendations take account of future
increases in the volume of transactions and to the appropriateness of a
partially or fully computerized accounting system. The primary users of the
accounting systems would be Arabic speaking and a special attention would be



-58 -                    ANNEX VIII (5)
Page 2 of 5
paid to use of Arabic language to produce form, reporting, etc.
6.       The consultant should liaise with MOMR's external auditor.
7.       The consultant should peovide recommendations for strengthening the
accounting department in the longer term.  It is envisaged that when phase one
commences, a resident advisor (accounting/auditing) will be assigned to the
MOMR for a three-year period to ensure the smooth running of the system, to
recommend further changes and revisions to the system as necessary and to
oversee continued staff training. The consultant wiLL be asked to coordinate
detailed terms of reference for this study and to make recommendations for an
in-house and an external training program for the accounting staff.
8.       Phase one should take no longer than six months from its comnencement
to the submission of the consultant's report.
9.       The consultant will produce a detailed report of his findings and his
recommendations which he will submit to MOMR and IDA for its approval for the
commencement of phase two implementation.
Phase Two
10.      This phase will see the implementation of the recommendations
contained in the consultant's report following completion of phase one. Phase
two must be planned and executed to ensure the necessary alterations and
improvements to the systems and controls.
11.      The initial implementation of the consultant's recommendations will
require his continued support at MOMR and therefore there should be included
in the Phase One report, an estimation of how long this involvement would
be. It is expected that during implementation the consultant would work in
parallel with the resident accounting/auditing advisor who should be recruited
before implementation begins.
12.      Following the initial implementation period there will be regular
monthly or quarterly follow up by the consultant in order to resolve problems
arising in consultation with the resident advisor, and advise on modifications
which may be necessary following practical experience of the new systems and
procedures. An estimation should also be given in Phase One report of the
time factor involved for this support.
13.      The consultant will prepare a final report setting out his findings
following several months working experience of his recommendations, plus
suggestions for the avoidance of possible difficulties he might envision
arising in the future.



59 -                   ANNEX VIII (5)
Page 3 of 5
OUTLIVE OF AREAS EXPECTED TO BE COVERED BY THE CONSULTANT
Phase One
1.       It is expected that the consultant's review will cover the following
areas in detail:
(a) The suitability and reliability of the current accounting
records with particular emphasis on long-term growth in the
volume of transactions to be handled.
(b) The quality and appropriateness of the internal control systems
and their monitoring.
(c) The timeliness and suitability of the current management and
financial reporting systems.
(d) The adequacy of support records and their appropriatness for the
periodic production of management and financial reports.
(e) The timeliness and suitability of contractors statements, other
reports and relevant services provided to contractors and oil
companies or interested parties.
(f) The organisation, flow and filing of all documentation.
(g) The security and confidentiality of documents and records.
(h) The appropriateness of the organizational structure with
particular emphasis on the accounting and financial and other
reporting aspects.
(i) The qualifications, experience and abilities of the accounting
staff and the distribution of their duties.
2.       As part of his review the consultant is expected to document existing
procedures and routines, analyse information flows, collect samples of all
forms, reports, documents, etc. in current use and to note the frequency of
transactions.
3.       The consultant will require prompt and free access to all levels of
staff and management and to all documentation required, subject to Minister's
approval.
4.       The consultant's report is expected to cover all aspects of the
current accounting and internal control systems and procedures and to contain
full details of current weaknesses and recommendations for their improvement.



- 60 -                  ANNEX VIII (5)
Page 4 of 5
5.       These recommendations will cover such areas as:
(a) Periodic reports
-     Result and breakdown of revenues
and expenditures                        Monthly and Cumulative
-    Liquidity position                       Monthly
-    Resources and commitments                Monthly and Cumulative
-    Statement of loan accounts               Monthly and Cumulative
(approvals, commitments,
disbursements, etc.)
-    Movement of personnel                    Monthly
-    Budgets and financial forecasts          Annual, but with monthly
comparison in*reports
above marked.
-    Other reports that may be deemed         As appropriate
necessary
These reports should be designed to enable accountability of action
at all levels within MOMN.
(b) The documentation required to maintain the accounting records
and comply with the requirements of a sound system of internal
control.
(c) The type of records, bound ledgers, machine accounting cards,
journals, etc., required to ensure proper control and to
facilitate the production of periodic reports.
(d) The frequency and timing of entries into the accounting records
and the periodic closing of these records for report purposes.
(e) The merits and demerits of manual, partial and fully
computerized accounting systems.
(f) The confidentiality and security of documents.
(g) The mechanism for internal control ar-d auditing.
(h) The personnel and organisational requirements for various tasks.
(i) Appropriate hardware and software required for accounting and
internal control.
6.       The consultant is expected to design the necessary forms, determine
the format of routing reports, prepare flow charts, establish procedure
manuals for specific routines and prepare organization charts and job
descriptions in the area of accounting.



61 -             ~~~~ANNEX VIII (5)
- 61 -                     Page 5 of 5
Phase Two
7.       The consultant is expected to be involved in the implementation of
his recommendations and should certainly be present at the initial stage of
this phase.
8.       It is expected that once the change-over involving the books, records
and reporting systems has been regularized in line with the consultant's
recommendations, that his presence will then only be required on a periodic
basis to assist in ironing out problems arising and suggest modifications
following actual experience of the new systems and procedures.
9.       It is expected that phase two will be completed so that the
consultant's recommendations will be fully operative in January 1989.
10.      During the transition period, parallel running of the new and old
system will be undertaken for a short time.
11.      During the implementation period the consultant will ensure that MOMR
personnel receive proper training for adaptation to their new procedures and
responsibilities and will ensure that both internal and external training
programs are established for accounting staff.
Qualifications
12.      The assignment will be carried out by a suitably qualified and
experienced consulting firm, specialized in accounting, internal control,
organisation and management systems and audit. Experience in designing of
accounting and financial information systems for institutions and companies in
the Middle East is essential. All work will be carried out in English.



-62 -                     ANNEX VIII (6)
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
DATA BASE FOR EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
As a result of the discovery of oil and non-associated gas in the
eastern part of the country, YAR is currently confronted with an influx of
contractors and transfer of capital and technology unprecedented in the
country's history. Important investment decisions have to be made requiring
well-defined policies and priorities as well as the technical support to
manage and monitor the implications of these decisions. A substantial
improvement of managerial and technical capabilities of the country's
institutions in the petroleum sector is required in order to be able to deal
with this situation. The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic needs
sophisticated tools and up-to-date information to optimize the use of the
recently discovered, as well as of the yet unfound natural resources - notably
oil and natural gas of the country.
Objectives
2.       A dedicated data storage, retrieval and processing facility for all
relevant geological and engineering data collected is necessary to manage
efficiently the energy resources of the YAR. Such a facility aims at:
-    improving the accessibility of data to avoid needless
duplication and wrong decisions;
-    preventing the loss of invaluable data, some of which are
irreplaceable;
-    promoting and facilitating the anAlysis and proper use of
available data
-    providing facilities for the preservation and retrieval of new
data generated by exploration program and production schemes;
-    efficient and frequent reassessment of the proven, probable and
speculative oil and gas reserves.
Scope of Work
A dedicated geological and engineering data storage, retrieval and
processing facility will be developed and implemented in Sanaa, YAR, in close
cooperation with the Yemeni and Dutch staff of the already existing database
of the Department of Hydrology of the Geological Survey Board. The initial
part of the proposed project is the system definition phase. In this phase
the facility requirements will be defined with respect to e.g. data type
(geological, geophysical, reservoir engineering, production engineering data),



- 63 -                  ANMEX VIIi (6)
Page 2 of 2
coding and classification, definition of the interrelations between the
information stored, quality control of the data, and optimum utilization of
the information. Based on the results of the system definition phase the core
of the facility - the data management system - will be defined and selected.
Important parameters are e.g. the possibility to store and manage large
amounts of data (Giga Byte-magnitude), flexibility in data structure, ease of
access for modification and extension, user-friendliness (specifically at data
entry level), standard type operating system and hardware, availability of
robust software, and proper and easily accessible user documentation. The
selected data base system will then be adapted and customized for use in the
YAR, and beta-tested on practical data sets. Training of Yemeni staff will be
an integral part of the project. Separate training schemes will be provided
for administrative personnel (the entry and retrieval of data), system
engineers, geologists and petroleum engineers, and petroleum economists.



- 64 -                    ANNEX VIII (7)
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
TRAININC PROGRAM
DRAFT TERMS OF REFEREMCE
Introduction
1.       The Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MOMR) of the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) is interested to acquire the services of a consultant to assist
in planning and organizing the training of its staff for the next 5 years.
This training will be specifically limited to senior MOMR staff, who are
responsible for planning, developing and managing their national oil and gas
resources. It excludes long term academic training, or training aimed at
providing personnel for international oil companies operating in the country.
Objectives
2.       The objectives of the training p-ogram are to upgrade the
capabilities of the personnel working in MOMR to be able to:
-   supervise the implementation of the investment program and assess
prospects of petroleum development projects;
-   use available skills to stimulate investment and develop petroleum
resources;
-   prepare, negotiate and promote equitable and workable agreements;
-   use effective methods of economic and financial analysis and decision
making techniques to select investment options;
-   design and operate an organization that can profitably develop the
country's petroleum resources.
Liaison and Coordination
3.       The responsibility for monitoring and implementation of the training
program will be entrusted to the training department of the Ministry. A close
coordination will also be maintained with USAID in Sanaa, responsible for the
financing and implementation of the training component.
4.       The staff of MOHB include a certain number of persons (from forty to
sixty) with degrees from different universities or engineering schools. Very
few, if any, have practical experience in the oil industry. The purpose of
the training is to provide NOMR staff, through the resident advisors, with a
practical and working knowledge of the different activities relating to the
oil industry, in order to replace these advisors at the end of their contracts
and run the different departments of the Ministry in an efficient manner. It
must be clearly emphasized that their future activities in the coming years
will be in the fields of monitoring, supervision and planning, and not in



-65 -                      ANNEX  VIII (7)
Page 2 of 3
operation. Training should be designed to meet these specific requirements.
5.       The main components of the training program are as follows:
5.1      Data Collection
(a) carry out a manpower inventory according to education,
practical experience, and fluency in foreign languages
(likely English);
(b) prepare job descriptions, identifying required
qualifications and experiences, in close coordination with
resident advisors and consulting firm in charge of
organization study;
(c) describe training and orientation required for each job
category;
Cd) investigate the adequacy of current manning and propose new
assignments as required.
5.2           Design of a training master plan in close coordination with
Training Officer. This plan should define:
(a) total number of personnel to be trained and financial
implication;
(b) amount of time devoted to training related to manpower
available;
(c) scheduling of training to avoid interruption to prevailing
work; and
(d) sequence of training courses for employee development to
reach senior positions.
5.3           Organization and implementation of training:
(a) Organize in Sana'a intensive courses in English language/
training. A fluency in English will be considered as a
prerequisite before exposing candidates to any other form
of training. Teaching facilities of USAID, already in
existence can be used as much as possible after
consultation with USAID.
(b) Trainees will attend short courses or seminars organized on
regular basis by a specialized training firms,
universities, or other scientific organizations.
(c) Organize seminars or courses in Sana'a, more or less
similar to the aforementioned, but tailored, as much as
possible, to meet YAR needs and specific conditions.



- 66 -                    ANNEX VIII (7)
Page 3 of 3
(d) Send individuals to consulting firms' headquarters in order
to participate in various studies performed for MOER.
5.4           Monitor the implementation of the training courses and their
effectiveness (in close cooperation with the trcining officer
and resident advisors) and decide on corrective methods.
5.5           Prepare a monthly progress report during the first week of each
month. This report will cover the work performed during the
previous month with suggestions and recommendations.
6.            For the first part of the project (data collection and design of
a masterplan) a mission of two or three persons is expected to stay in Sanaa
for a certain period (3 to 4 months). Later, a liaison officer at USAID will
coordinate with MON and the consulting firm for implementation of the
training program.
7.            Final report.  A final report will be submitted to clearly
underline the results of the training program, its costs, and recommendations
for continued training to be performned by MOMR.



YE MEN   ARAB  REP U B LI C
IDA - ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
SAUDI ARABIA
*~~~~ 17                            Eno~~~~~~~k-CACS
Aw_c1it  R-nch C-non
U9.D.c, 1ntlio
RED1     A                                                                                                                  
Ft F.A.A.
-   Oz"n.m -          ;
0 /  PEOPLE'S DEM. REP. OF YEMEN                                            . .. _. ...
ETHIOPIA  DE| D cet 3
4 o-/ A9 P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0 R.........        ..I.....
0*   Ona,4'.nCF:  . t00     C.pO t I,
|                           4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N4Tn"ICI   CepTIWL, D






