Doc=ent of
The World Bank
FOR omcLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13479
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(CREDIT 1702-YAR)
AUGUST 26, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$ 1 - YR 12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (cm)       -  35.3 cubic feet (CF)
1 barrel (bbl)           -  42 US gallons
1 barrel (bbl)           -  0.159 cubic meters
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
bd                       -  barrel per day
DCA                      -  Development Credit Agreement
COY                      -  Government of the Republic of Yemen
LPG                      -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MOMR                     -  Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources
MOPD                     -  Ministry of Planning and Development
PDRY                     -  Peoples' Democratic Republic of Yemen
ROY                      -  Republic of Yemen
SCOMR                    -  Supreme Council of Oil and Mineral
Resources
UNDP                     -  United Nations Development Program
USAID                    -  United States AID
YAR                      -  Yemen Arab Republic
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 26, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:       Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen
Technical Assistance to the Petroleum Sector (Credit 1702-YAR)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on The Republic of Yemen - Technical Assistance to the
Petroleum Sector (Credit 1702-YAR)", prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. The
Borrower did not provide Part II.
The objective of this technical assistance project was to strengthen the technical and managerial
capabilities of the Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MOMR), with respect to the country's petroleum and
mineral resources. The management and development of these national assets will play a key role in providing
the resources necessary to implement Yemen's economic development strategy.
The project got off to a slow start, due to delays in recruitment of foreign technical residential advisors
and local counterpart staff at MOMR. Twenty-three separate project components were eventually implemented.
The most successful ones helped establish an effective management information and financial control system for
the country's growing number of petroleum exploration and development programs. As part of this process, a
systematic auditing program was implemented and proved to be an effective method for monitoring the operations
of international oil companies. Another highlight was the successful implementation of a crash program to
establish a private sector LPG bottling and distribution industry that would use Yemen's own LPG resources.
This program has enabled Yemen to move away from imported LPG for meeting its household energy needs.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, and its institutional development impact as substantial.
Institutional sustainability will depend, to a large part, on the Government's ability to continue to attract and hold
highly qualified individuals needed to oversee the sophisticated oil and minerals sectors, in competition with a
rapidly expanding private sector in these areas. The longer term funding for hiring outside the civil service
structure will need to be found. For this reason the sustainability is rated as uncertain.
The PCR is of high quality and provides insightful discussion of the implementation difficulties
encountered and the solutions found to maximize the project's development impact. The fact that the Borrower
did not complete Part II suggests, however, that project ownership may not have been effectively developed. No
audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit 1702-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface . . . .i
Evaluation Summary ......................... . ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B. Background .
C. Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
D. Design and Implementation ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
E. Results ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
F. Sustainability  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
G. Bank Performance   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
H. Borrower Performance   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
I. Relationships ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
J. Documentation .10
Attachment - Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE - NOT RECEIVED . 16
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . 17
Table 2 - Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements .18
Table 4 - Withdrawal of Credit Proceeds . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table 5 - Project Financing .18
Table 6 - Status of Covenants in Development Credit Agreement . 19
Table 7 - Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit 1702-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical Assistance
to the Petroleum Sector in Yemen for which Credit 1702-YAR in the amount of
SDR 10.6 million was approved on May 15, 1986. The Credit was closed on
December 31, 1993, two years behind the original appraisal schedule. The last
disbursement was made on May 13, 1994, following which an amount of SDR
309.579 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy and Industry Operations Division of
Country Department II of the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Part II, to be prepared by
the Borrower, has not been submitted. Comments were invited from the two co-
financiers, but none were received.
Preparation of this PCR was started prior to the Bank's final
supervision mission in January 1994 and is based inter alia on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, Supervision reports, and
correspondence between the Bank, the Borrower, and other parties.






- ii -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit 1702-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Objectives. To assist in building the technical and managerial capabilities
of the Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (MOMR), so as to enable it to
effectively manage Yemen's Petroleum and Minerals Sectors and to lay the
groundwork for important sectorial investment decisions.
Implementation Experience. Except in the initial phases, Project
implementation was satisfactory. Most of the consultancies went smoothly,
except for initial delays in their selection and contracting. During the
initial years, the transfer of sectoral know-how through the employment of
resident advisers at MOMR was somewhat hampered by delays in recruitment, lack
of management experience in GOY, and a shortage of capable and experienced
sectorial staff to work as counterparts with the advisers. Bank supervision
efforts were instrumental in overcoming many of the problems, as they
occurred.
Results. The Project's achievements in many respects are significant. The
most important ones are in the areas of personnel training, the establishment
of financial and technical controls over the activities of oil companies, the
development and implementation of a liquid petroleum gas distribution system
involving the private sector, and establishing institutional capability in
delineating and analyzing minerals prospects.
Sustainabilitv. Sustaining MOMR's institutional gains will depend to a great
extent on the Government's ability to continue to attract and maintain the
highly qualified and motivated individuals needed to oversee and manage the
sophisticated oil and minerals sectors, requiring realistic policies on
staffing and remuneration or the increased staffing under medium-term
contracts at negotiated rates. Concerning the LPG sub-sector, most activities
have been privatized and are self-sustaining. Implementation of investment
projects studied under the Project, such as the natural gas pipeline, will
need to await stabilization of Yemen's political, economic and financial
conditions.
PrinciRal Lessons. The Bank's intensive supervision efforts (including active
and extended Bank staff participation in establishing MOMR's LPG "Crash
Program' and opening this area to private sector involvement), staff
continuity and strong task management were critical ingredients to the success
of the Project. The Bank's willingness to adapt the Project scope in mid-
stream to changed circumstances was important in enhancing the Project's
usefulness to Yemen's economy. However, the Bank at appraisal over-estimated



- iii -
MOMR's capability with regard to selecting, recruiting and managing the
resident advisers hired under the Project; also, MOMR could have benefitted
from a greater direct Bank involvement in the supervision of the recruitment
process handled through foreign consultants under a UNDP contract. Also, the
acute lack of trainable counterparts for these advisers mentioned above was
not adequately recognized at appraisal. Another important lesson to be drawn
from this project is the need for a borrower to permit activities in highly
sophisticated sectors such as this to be handled by well motivated and
supported staff not subject to limited civil service pay scales.
Delays in decision-making and weaknesses in coordination among different
officials at MOMR (whose views often diverged as to the "ownership' of certain
parts of the Project, such as the resident advisers and their roles) and with
the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD) and other parts of Government
caused delays in implementation and cost increases. The processing of
withdrawal applications among MOMR, MOPD (or its predecessor in YAR, the
Central Planning Organization) and the Central Bank usually consumed four
months, as a matter of routine, in the earlier phases of project
implementation. A Special Account remained largely unused because of MOMR's
fears that improper use might be made of it. Much of this could have been
mitigated at an early stage by strengthening MOMR's project coordination
function but was achieved only in the later phases of implementation and after
the Bank proposed Credit closure at the originally agreed closing date and
after cancellation of part of the uncommitted credit balance.
Lastly, a fundamental question to which more attention should perhaps
have been paid by GOY at project inception was the extent to, and the
intensity with which it wanted to be involved in running the sector, given its
unfamiliarity at the time with the technically highly sophisticated petroleum
business. However, whether the granting of greater autonomy to operating oil
companies could possibly have been beneficial to Yemen's economy may be the
subject of future study.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR (CREDIT 1702-YAR)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:              Technical Assistance to the Petroleum Sector
Credit Number:    1702-YAR
RVP Unit:          MENA Region
Country:           Republic of Yemen
Sectors:           Petroleum and Minerals
B. BACKGROUND
1.    By the time the Technical Assistance to the Petroleum Sector Project
(the Project) was conceived in 1985, the then Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) had
experienced far reaching changes in its social and economic structure and the
material welfare of its citizens. Political integration and the build-up of
its public institutions were underway, providing the basis for the development
of Yemen's public and private sectors under the country's first development
plan. Also, the foundation was being laid for its physical and social
infrastructure, and first attempts were being made at lifting agriculture out
of its medieval setting, while industrialization was started on a very small
scale.
2.    During this important phase of YAR's development, a foreign oil company
made an important crude oil discovery in the Marib Governorate which greatly
enhanced Yemen's development prospects. After completing the necessary
exploration work, a pipeline was laid to the Red Sea coast through which crude
oil exports started flowing in 1987. The main challenge for YAR's government
consisted in deriving the maximum economic benefit from its new oil resource
which required building up, with the assistance of outside expertise, the
institutional and administrative capabilities necessary to address the diverse
policy, planning, control and investment options associated with Yemen's
important new source of wealth.
3.    At the same time, the domestic demand for petroleum products in YAR was
increasing rapidly. This demand was supplied entirely by imports, except for



- 2 -
the excess of the output of a small refinery set up at the new oil fields to
supply fuel for the oil company's internal requirements. Apart from
automobiles, electricity generation has historically been the principal
consumer of petroleum in Yemen. The discovery not only of oil but also of
natural gas in significant volumes led to investigations of the possible use
of natural gas for power generation and industrial requirements, to permit
reducing the importation of fuel oil.
4.    Implementation of the Technical Assistance Project was accompanied by
several important developments. Firstly, production from the Marib fields
gradually increased to a maximum level near 210,000 barrels per day (bd) in
1991, and crude oil exports became Yemen's most important source of foreign
exchange. Secondly, YAR's Unification in 1990 with the former Peoples'
Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) into the Republic of Yemen resulted in
significant changes in the economic, political and social structures of the
country and its government, which has led to the present turmoil in the
country. It also caused a prolonged paralysis in government decision making,
not least with regard to important investments needed in the energy and other
sectors. Thirdly, following Unification, a large number of international
petroleum companies were invited to prospect for oil and gas; particularly in
the territories of the former PDRY. Their efforts have begun to bear fruit:
one important oil discovery has recently started production and export
shipments have begun through a new pipeline to the Arabian Sea at a rate
estimated to reach some 140,000 bd in 1994. Fourthly, despite the increasing
oil production, Yemen's economy continued to deteriorate; the return of nearly
1 million expatriates from the Arabian Gulf at the time of the 1990 Gulf War
eliminated an important source of remittances. On balance, these latter
developments greatly affected Yemen's economy and with that, its ability to
raise funding for the large investments envisaged at the time of Project
inception and to establish the institutions needed to effectively manage the
petroleum sector.
5.    The Bank's involvement in the petroleum sector began in the early 1980's
with the objective of supporting the Government's efforts to attract foreign
investment in the exploration and development of Yemen's petroleum and
geothermal potential. This was accomplished through an IDA credit of SDR 1.8
million (Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project - Credit 1216-
YAR) approved in 1982 and completed in 1988 (see Project Completion Report
dated May 17, 1990 - Report No. 8664). Partly as a result of this initiative
which also focused on professional training, the preparation of investment
studies and the provision of equipment, several oil companies were encouraged
to undertake exploration; this resulted in finding the Marib oil field. With
this discovery, the Government decided to abandon the development of the
geothermal potential and assign priority to that of hydrocarbon resources.
C. OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
6.    The principal objective of the Project was to assist in building MOMR's
technical and managerial capabilities so as to enable it to effectively manage
Yemen's petroleum sector and lay the groundwork for important sectorial
investment decisions. Through this Project, the Bank played a leading role in
helping strengthen the Government's capabilities to deal with the important



-3-
and difficult task of making the best economic use of its hydrocarbon
resources. The Project furthermore was to assist in identifying, financing
and supervising the expertise needed to address the broad spectrum of
technical, legal and administrative issues the Goverrnent was then
confronting. Several specific components of the Project were supported by
funding from USAID, the Governments of the Netherlands and of France, and
UNDP.
7.    In a significant broadening of its original scope, the Project over the
years addressed a total of 23 different components. All of these were
dedicated to the petroleum sector, except for two which involved the
development of Yemen's mineral resources, under a revision to the Credit
agreed with the Government in 1989. This enlargement of the scope was fully
justified by the needs of the two sectors, as they developed since the Project
was originally designed. A detailed list of the Project's components,
together with a summary description of their objectives and implementation and
their cost, is shown in the Attachment to Part I. These components are in
support of the above-mentioned objectives and specifically include funding of
(i) a number of individual resident advisers at MOMR; (ii) specialized
consultancies for institutional development and investment planning, legal
assistance, and the introduction of environmental control legislation; (iii)
Assistance in setting up a management information and financial control system
over the operations of oil companies, as well as a data base for crude oil
exploration and production; (iv) assistance in training and manpower planning;
(v) studies of the organization of MOMR and petroleum sector agencies, the
development of one of the oil fields, a gas utilization project, and a second
refinery in YAR; (vi) a 'Crash Program" to develop and privatize the domestic
bottling and distribution of LPG; (vii) reservoir audits of oil and gas
fields; and (viii) a consultancy to establish MOMR's capability of delineating
and analyzing mineral prospects.
8.    As detailed in the Attachment to Part I, the cost of the project
totalled US$19.2 million, 13X above the appraisal estimate of US$17.0 million.
This increase is mainly due to the extension of the Project's scope, despite
the limited local cost funding from the Government (US$0.5 million) which was
caused by acute budgetary constraints during the years of implementation. The
foreign cost of the Project was financed from the proceeds of IDA Credit 1702-
YAR (about US$12.7 million equivalent) and grants from USAID (US$0.9 million),
the Netherlands government (US$4.8 million, substantially increased from the
original commitment of US$1.1 million), the Government of France (US$200,000)
and UNDP (US$100,000).
D. DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
9.    In light of the circumstances at the time of inception, the Project was
sound in design and had a clear conceptual foundation; except as noted in
para. 10 below, project preparation was thorough. Since there were no capable
and experienced sectorial staff in the Government, and since only very few
individuals initially had an adequate grasp of the issues involved in the
petroleum industry, the Project was to provide MOMR with know-how through
resident technical advisers and to support the preparation of several
investment studies and to provide project preparation assistance. This



-4-
approach was appropriate in principle. However, the objective of know-how
transfer through the hiring of several resident advisers could not be entirely
accomplished, mainly because of the lack of government officials' experience
in recruiting, dealing with and managing these highly qualified individuals.
In addition, with the lack of delegation of authority within MOMR and the
shortage of properly qualified and trainable counterpart staff, GOY could
benefit from the advisers' presence and expertise only to a limited extent.
It was only during the final years of implementation that MOMR's institutional
capabilities were noticeably improved.
10.   In retrospect, it is clear that MOMR's capabilities in this regard were
over-estimated at appraisal, and that arrangements such as the UNDP agreement
should have been put in place as part of project preparation. Even after
these arrangements were made, however, the advisers component proved to be the
one which caused the most problems, mainly because of (i) lack of capability
and sensitivity on the part of the UNDP-hired recruitment agency in charge of
the search of candidates; (ii) excessive expectations on the part of MOMR with
regard to the candidates' ability to integrate into MOMR's organizational
structure and adapt to local management customs; and (iii) MOMR's above-
mentioned inexperience in dealing with them. Despite a seemingly interminable
selection process and innumerable interviews, only four of the seven positions
could be filled for more than two years, compared to the three to five years
which would have been satisfactory; only the Training Adviser remained in
place for nearly five years and his role was highly beneficial. The other
advisers, when recruited, left after relatively short periods for various
reasons, disagreements with MOMR officials often being cited. This hampered
meeting the institution-building objective of the Project and was exacerbated
by the acute lack of suitable, well motivated, adequately paid and
logistically supported MOMR staff who could be assigned and trained as
counterparts to the advisers.
11.   Two of the positions, related to exploration/production and legal
services, could not be filled with resident advisers. These functions were
performed satisfactorily by separate retainer-based consultancies which
provided ad hoc services through 1993.
12.   According to the original plan set out at appraisal, implementation of
the components then envisaged should have been completed by mid-1991, about
five years after Board approval. The political developments mentioned earlier
were the main cause hindering implementation within that time, causing the
need for two closing date extensions, the last to December 31, 1993. Other
factors contributed, such as the Government's delay in meeting effectiveness
conditions, a process which consumed 14 months from Board presentation and was
primarily due to insufficient action to expeditiously hire resident advisers.
Despite these efforts having been initiated long before the Project's approval
under a Project Preparation Advance (PPF-365 of US$770,000), this condition
was met only after UNDP agreed to enter into a Management Services Agreement
with MOMR under which the international selection and recruitment of some of
the advisers were eventually accomplished.



- 5 -
13.   Implementation of most of the components relating to studies and
consultancies went smoothly', except that in the early years invariably the
selection and contracting process was an agonizing process, mainly because of
a lack of timely decision-making within MOMR on price, staffing, logistics and
payment issues. Most of the problems were overcome as a result of intensive
Bank supervision efforts, including direct interventions with consulting
firms.
14.   The agreement between COY and the Bank to expand the Project scope to
include development of Yemen's minerals potential, also under the
responsibility of MOMR, has been recognized as fortunate since this resulted
in one of the most successful components of the Project. The minerals
development component consisted mainly of a consultancy to develop the
institutional capability of MOMR's Minerals Exploration Board and resulted in
the formation of a capable and well trained group of specialists focussing on
continued prospecting; so far, their activities have resulted in COY
concluding six exploration license agreements with local and international
investors/mining companies to develop projects for the extraction of metals
such as gold, silver, lead and zinc.
15.   Except for the last two years or so of implementation, timely payment
was an issue which pervaded practically all consultancies under the Project.
Withdrawal applications would be sent to the Bank only after lengthy approval
procedures at MOMR, the Ministry of Planning and Development and the Central
Bank, taking some four months as a matter of routine. This greatly
contributed to the slow pace of implementation and disbursement under the
Credit. It is estimated that the cost of these delays, where anticipated by
bidders, added 10-15 percent to the cost of their contracts. A Special
Account, opened at Project inception to facilitate disbursement to
contractors, remained largely unused because of MOMR's fears - not entirely
unjustified - that improper use might be made of it elsewhere in the
Covernment.
16.   Because of the slow pace of disbursement, the Government agreed to the
cancellation of SDR 1.0 million (about US$1.3 million) of the credit at the
time of the first closing date extension in early 1992. Following the last
disbursement on May 13, 1994, a balance of SDR 309.579 was cancelled.
17.   It is hard to judge the extent to which many of the difficulties
encountered during implementation could have been foreseen and better
mitigated. Civen Yemen's stage of development at the time of appraisal, it
was clearly difficult to properly assess COY's ability to establish, within
the original time frame of the Project, the well-functioning institutions
needed to oversee a completely new sector. But the successful implementation
of the Project supports the Bank's initial decision to participate in it.
Perhaps COY could have drawn on the experience of countries having gone
through similar processes under similar circumstances, such as Saudi Arabia
which during its initial years in the Petroleum Age left oil operations
1/ Completion reports prepared by several of the consultancies are available
in files.



- 6 -
entirely to foreign companies, providing only a minimum of oversight. But
informal Bank staff recommendations made at-the time to this effect went
unheeded, because of the importance GOY attached to exercising full control
over Yemen's petroleum sector.
E. PROJECT RESULTS
18.   Despite the above difficulties, the Project's achievements in the
institutional development of MOMR and the sectorial entities associated with
it have been in many respects significant, particularly when taking into
account the limitations imposed by the political, economic and social
environment Yemen has had to endure during the period of implementation. The
Project had its greatest impact in the following areas:
(a) Training. The Resident Training Adviser was instrumental in
organizing MOMR's training department and in arranging training programs
abroad and with oil companies in Yemen. He played an important role in
developing and implementing a structure at MOMR for the selection and training
of a growing number of Yemenis for positions in the oil industry, initially
fully staffed with expatriates. The USAID training component, which was
abandoned at the time of the Gulf War, funded programs for several MOMR staff.
In addition, training activities figured prominently in the minerals
development component and the oil and gas field audits.
(b) Accounting and Auditing. Based on an extensive systems study
conducted under the Project, a team of expatriates has been responsible for
effectively organizing MOMR's accounting and auditing capability, permitting
the establishment of effective controls over oil companies' compliance with
their respective production sharing agreements, their obligations concerning
bonus payments, reporting on production and exploration expenditures and
production volumes, and the follow-up on exceptions determined by the audits
performed since 1988 by an international company of the principal oil
companies' expense statements. Several Yemeni accountants have been trained.
(c) Oil Operations. Although an early reservoir study of the Alif/Azal
fields was not useful (para. 19), the audit undertaken in 1993 of several
other oil and gas fields was successful, providing MOMR with an independent
assessment of oil companies' production operations while Yemeni staff received
training. Also, the data center established with Netherlands funding and now
fully staffed by Yemenis was well designed and implemented and became a useful
tool in hydrocarbon exploration operations in Yemen. A short-term consultancy
to provide know-how in international crude oil marketing was instrumental in
preparing MOMR for undertaking its own crude oil trading, independent from oil
companies.
(d) Liauid Petroleum Gas (LPG). A "Crash Program" initiated by Bank
staff assigned to Yemen for seven weeks, which gained GOY's quick approval,
resulted in making use of Yemen's abundantly available LPG resources which,
due to lack of facilities, were formerly mostly wasted by reinjection into the
oil field; this unique Bank involvement, which assisted project formulation
and was instrumental in opening LPG bottling and distribution to the private
sector, permitted YAR to terminate the costly importation of LPG for which



- 7 -
there has been a growing domestic demand. Following many years of acute
shortages, LPG is now in ample supply throughout Yemen, with 16 bottling
stations being operated by the private sector, an activity which used to be
the exclusive prerogative of the Government. Transportation of this product
is also entirely in private hands. The abandonment of an impractical and
uneconomical project to build a large central bottling plant in Sana'a with a
100,000 tons per year capacity can also be credited to the studies and other
activities performed under this component.
(e) Minerals Exploration. This component was instrumental in
establishing the capability of MOMR's Minerals Exploration Board in
delineating and analyzing minerals prospects throughout the country; this
operation is now fully staffed by Yemenis. In addition, the activities have
so far resulted in the signing of six exploration license agreements with
foreign investors, based on the prospecting work conducted under this
consultancy. It is expected that the exploration work to be undertaken by
these investors will lead to additional interest by foreign investors in
Yemen's minerals potential.
19.   The above successes are not diminished by the limited impact of several
of the studies undertaken under the Project. Not useful were a study of the
organization of MOMR and its affiliates (in part because its focus was not
sufficiently adapted to local circumstances), a review of the Alif oil field
development plan (conducted by consultants who because of their internal
reorganization prior to completing the study, proved to be less than fully
capable) and a study for the establishment of a second refinery in YAR
(undertaken before the adequate supply of Marib crude could be ascertained).
A complex gas utilization and power generation study conducted in several
phases with Netherlands funding resulted in the preliminary design of an
economically attractive natural gas pipeline system to supply power plants and
other major energy consumers which would eventually permit discontinuation of
the use of costly imported fuel oil; however, this project has not been
implemented because of lack of agreement between GOY and the oil company on
the availability and deliverability of the gas and, more recently, the absence
of financing for such a major investment. Similarly, plans for assistance to
the institutional development of a Yemeni gas company initially received a
high level of attention but had to be abandoned, due in part to what appeared
to be divergent views among high level MOMR officials. The above-mentioned
project to build a central LPG bottling plant was abandoned only after
fruitless negotiations over two years between MOMR and the oil company and
with legal assistance under the Project. Implementation of the
recommendations of the environmental protection study completed in 1993, and
distributed widely throughout the concerned COY departments, have remained in
abeyance pending establishment by GOY of effective environmental protection
institutions and related legislation.
F. SUSTAINABILITY
20.   As described in paras. 9 and 10 above, the transfer of sectorial know-
how to MOMR through resident advisers was somewhat limited and in the early
years of implementation did not provide the institutional strengthening
initially hoped for in all respects, mainly due to the lack of counterparts.



- 8 -
However, their presence for a total of some twelve man-years clearly left its
mark on MOMR's internal organization, policies and procedures as well as
relations with oil companies, in evidence particularly during the latter
years. Sustaining MOMR's institutional gains will largely depend on its
ability to continue to attract and maintain the highly qualified individuals
needed to oversee and manage the sophisticated oil and minerals sectors. This
may require an adaptation of the Government's rigid civil service staffing and
remuneration policies to the realities not only of the private sector in Yemen
but also to international conditions. First attempts have been made at
solving this problem by hiring specified individuals under medium-term
contracts at negotiated rates. This should be continued on a larger scale,
provided the needed funding is available. In part to obtain such funding,
MOMR has meanwhile requested that the Bank undertake a second technical
assistance project for these sectors; this is currently under consideration by
GOY and the Bank. Concerning investments resulting from the various studies,
only the LPG sub-sector has good prospects of being sustained because it has
been largely turned over to private investors and operators who satisfy an
important demand by a large majority of the population, and because domestic
supplies are available. The implementation of investment projects, such as
the natural gas pipeline, will need to await a significant improvement in
political and economic conditions in the country and the conclusion of
agreements with oil companies to finance such projects, possibly on their own.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
21.   Because of the large number of components and MOMR's constant
difficulties and delays in reaching decisions and taking actions, supervision
of this Project was labor-intensive, as is customary among technical
assistance projects. The intensive supervision efforts throughout
implementation plus the special assistance to developing LPG supplies (para.
18) must be seen as the major contribution the Bank brought to bear on this
Project; without them, probably only few of the achievements described earlier
would have occurred. Staff continuity and strong task management were
important ingredients in this achievement. Another strength of the Bank's
involvement became apparent in the early stages when the Project was
identified, appraised and approved within less than 12 months, speaking for
the high level of dedication of staff efforts also at that time. A third
strength consisted of the Bank's willingness, following the interruptions
caused by the changes in Government upon Unification, to extend and expand the
scope of the Project in mid-stream, mainly to include the minerals and
accounting staff components. The latter became necessary when a continuation
of the original resident advisers' component was no longer technically
feasible since UNDP was unable to provide the needed administrative
arrangements agreed during the initial phase of implementation.
22.   In view of the importance, as perceived earlier, of the resident
advisers to the build-up of MOMR's institutional capability, a closer
involvement by the Bank in their initial identification and recruitment could
have helped in increasing further the effectiveness of the Project. As it
happened, the matter was left to MOMR, the local UNDP office, and their
overseas recruitment consultants whose performance could possibly have been
improved with more active Bank help. Another component where the Bank could



have acted more decisively in the early Project stages was in relation to the
study for a second petroleum refinery in YAR which had little merit, and the
fruitless negotiations with the help of legal advisers funded under the
Project concerning a large LPG bottling plant (para. 19). These would seem to
be the principal short-comings of the Bank's involvement which could serve as
lessons to future projects of this nature under virgin sectorial conditions.
H.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23.   The performance of the Borrower in the later phases of implementation
was generally acceptable. But this came only after the Bank threatened
closure at the originally agreed closing date, and after cancellation of SDR 1
million of the uncommitted credit balance. Earlier delays in decision-making
and weaknesses in coordination between MOMR and other parts of Government were
the principal causes of implementation weaknesses; in many instances the
delays ire believed to have caused increases in the cost of the consultancies
involved, whose proposals had to reflect provisions for the cost of such
delays, including in payment. Especially the latter aspect significantly
affected the efficiency with which consultancies were implemented.
24.   MOMR was required to appoint a Project Coordinator.  Over the years,
this important function was only partially effective, due to inadequate
logistic support, personnel changes, extended absences or the lack of capable
or adequately motivated individuals for this complex task. The inability or
unwillingness of some higher level officials to make good use of the advisers
and consultants placed at their disposition, was a significant factor in
MOMR's less than adequate performance in the earlier phases of the Project,
but this was overcome in the later years. Preparation of progress reports on
the various components was irregular and usually had to be complemented by
direct contacts between Bank staff and the respective consultants.
25.   An important overall lesson to be drawn is the need for a borrower to
permit activities in highly sophisticated sectors such as this, to be handled
by well motivated and supported staff not subject to limited civil service pay
scales.
I. RELATIONSHIPS
26.   Thanks to the Bank's intensive supervision efforts, the relationships
among Bank staff, consultants and Borrower officials were generally good at
all times and served as the critical basis for the success of many components.
The same applies to relations with cofinanciers which were excellent and were
based on open and satisfactory cooperation. Most significant was the impact
of the Bank's excellent relationship with the numerous consultants working
under the Project, which served to remove frequent misunderstandings with
their counterparts and to improve their coordination with MOMR on issues of
logistical support, payment and contractual matters.



- 10 -
J. DOCUMENTATION
2;'. The legal documentation underlying the Credit was satisfactory and
clearly stated the parameters under which the Project was to be implemented.
The same holds true of the corresponding President's Report which provided
useful guidance to supervision and implementation. The ready availability of
Bank files was important to the preparation of this PCR.



YEMEN--TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit 1702-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Implemestation            Cod (USS '000)
Period                                                                                                                                               Source of
Conpoocnt                                                                               Objectives                                    Inmpentantion                       Foreign
Planned    Actual   Apprmis            Actual                                                                                                        Finocing
Foreign    Local
A. Resident Adviso
1. UNDP-Managemern          5/tS-     6/S7-    4,000         2,173               To provide techncal upport for day- to-                                                         IDA
Servke, Agreetnent and   4/90       12/92                                      day operations through seven expatriate
others                                                                         resident advisors working et MOMR on a
fixed term basis, as folls:
IOD)              a) Manatement and Policy: to develop    Position was filled by highly qualified enior international   UNDP
policy options for oil and gas          oil executive (funded under weparate UNDP grnt), but he
development and advise on project       reigned in late 1989 after only 4 months due to policy
inmlenentation.                         disagreemn with MOMR. Despite extended  arhb no
replacement acceptable to MOMR was found.
I-'
b) Exploation and Production: to        The firf advisor hired in 1986 reigned in Jamary 1937  IDA
evaluate technical aspects of the       for lack of timely payment and logistics support. (A
operation of freign oil companies.      replaceme was introduced in 1937, runded under a
separate Netherlands grant). Many of thne functions
originally planned to be performed by this advisor were
provided through a separate petroleum engineering
consultancy ( see below).
c) Refinint. Transortation  nd          Position was filled in 1939. The incumbent was eleased    IDA
Distnbution: to asdst in formulating    in 1991 by MOMR witbout plausible explantion.
policy options and monitor Inrvedment
tudies in downsream activitie.
d) Accountina/Auditina: to asist in     MOMR decied to hire two adviso: an Auditing            IDA
cotrolling and  iditing die explration  Advisor was on board from 19S9-1990, nd an                             >
and poductios expenes of coaators.      Aceunting Advisor from 19S9-991. T'ey wre  released
without plausible explanation.                                        n)
e) PevluatetiPuosit                         i oto  e veun was filled in 19S9. The incuibent was teleased    IDA    o   n3
procurement procedum an  methods        in 1991 winat plauible explanation.                                 " 
applied by operat°i  oil eonpsm en
I) Len: to pwvide counel to MOMR        Two Bank-racommended advisors were employed            IDA
on the inerpretation tand inmleneation     consectively  nd resigned after short periods, the finm for
of conctual araneanrs and assist in    personal reason, the second because of a perceived
negotiations,                           conflictof increstwiththeprincipal oil comany. A
ntept  e ank-rfcommendad advisor was contracted on an ad
hoc basis, under a legal conaultaney  (wee below).



_ WkInCligation           Cod (USS '000_
PtrE                                                                                                                                                 Sotge oft
Comnent                                    O_i v                                                                                      hrilnpinteti o                      Foreign
Planned    Acual   Appmral             Actu Falme
Eatinuft
_ _ _ _   _       _   _                _    _      _    _   td. __                _______
.  T_Fg)  t: to coordiew vanros types    hia advisor wamthe mod laccesful of the p  . being  _DA
of tnailig available and to flow up on    enqloyed fromn 19°  to 1M92. He at up MOMX's
.  pkemiiation of a auger pl".          tnining sydem, procede and schedube in cloe
cooperstioa wi  oil eacfpanies, USAID, UNDP and
othe sources of gran lnding. During his tem., a tota
of 311 Yemeni fmm MOIM  received 12,600 n-dys of
traing bclly and abroad in Loja like lguages, oil
exploation and poduction minerals exploration,
refining. ct.
Since the sefieon of candivdateg did no conform with
Bank uideline  no SCOMR adviors wee Anded.
Oher: IDA approved a modification of
the DCA in May 1939 whereby the
scope of this conyonet WaN extendW to
cover the  quremed   of GOY's
Spme Concil of Oil nd Mine
2. Equip-nt                            7/92-    300           50                  Vehices n other loglai  mppo  to        Requiremens were landed in pat fom the proceeds of      IDA
6/93                                       Resident Advisor.                       Credit 1216, cloed in 1918.
3. Accounting Staff                    7/91-    -             560                 To assit in the eaabmdanet ofa           Four adviso  wes recruited in 1993 wbose asignent     IDA
12/93                                     petroeum acounn  unit and the            was contisuiang mceafuly In early 1994.
inroductri of sy_em  and procedures
preped by th Aiccouninig Syse
Study (see below).
B. Studies and Conultiw
Wr-t
1. Or_nlzetioa Study        6/6-       9/Ui     400          504                  To foremte an overal suctur,            The sdy was prepared withoea givn dn regard to the     USAID  t  n
2/37      9/3U                                        orpanicton and relaed nuqrower policy   pariculr eir_msan    of Yme  nd itr perolem                          9
for Ye  I petnnium sctor ,and to       sctor. As a reaslt, k was nt implemented in ny                     o t
plan for s iqpleme in_ .                mibstive way ad the few parts tt wer, wene Iter                        :3
2. Alif Field D_elopmet    /           2/1#-     300          335        15       To inbkoe daa collection. deip a        The comast slced wet baukat befb  compledn              IDA
Sudy                     7/37       2/39                                         oogical aml ad a diga resevoir    the taL  TIh reorganized finn w   abb to omklte 
MDa, to avahaa poleum reve              but neher in a tely m profeado_ dly etsactory
NWd o keat oCl nd gse prodco  of    _maer. The ady theer. had no ffect n MOMR e
th Af ad rela_d fiel.             ,      ovrsig  of th deelopment of th oaU fe  oprati
which by that tim was already In a Pl prodction.



Iniplemurtation           Cost (USS '000)
Period                                                                                                                                             Source of
Component                                                                              Obj0tive                                     Iepkmednatiot                      Foreign
Plamed   Acual   Appraisd             Aetual                                                                                                       FuP acing
iunte
Foreign    Local
3. Gas Utilization Study   7/36       71i6-    500          330        20       To review the potediil madret for nAra   The study and wvrl revisio  thereof wer conmkied     Neth'Ids
10/27     3/92                                      ps particularly is power genetion, and   *atifordly. briplemeraion of the recommended
to determine the economics of nd design   pipeline rysn, bohwever, has been delayed due to the
an optifmI aS pipelie sytem.           effects of Yenenn' Unificatioo and lack of finding.
4. Project Managmeist      5/1-                3,400
and Olher Convuhawy      6/91
Services
(a) Second Refinery Study    -        7178-                 290        20       To evaluate the viability of ae cond    The study was competed atisfactorily. 8t the          IDA
3/39                                      refinery in the former YAR to supply the   recornm dlation to build a mnid-size refinery was n
domenA  de_nkd of petrleum pmducts.   inplemaed mainly becaue of unceraity as to the
qusotiiy of domestic cnade oil available at that time.
(b) Marketing Assistance   -          10/7-                122        Is       To assst MOMR in developing its         Te services prvided by an Iierntaiont   oi company    IDA
3/U                                      sInernational pebtroe    marketing      were ratisfaeory In helping MOMR gain needed
capability.                            expertie.
(e) LPG Site Surveys       -          4/11&                 106                 To ntcvey aites at Saws's (for          Te t   was conlited  atisfactorily.                   IDA
12/S3                                    conruction of a mjor LPG botting
plant) and Marib (for contuction of
LPG shing facilitiaer de Safer oi
5. Enironmesia             7/17-      5/92-    200          214        25       To prepare eavlromue I  protection      Te tudy was completed atiwfactorily. bn mesesation of   iDA
Protection Study        3/33      593                                        legilation and pgdein  for poltion     its recommendationa is awaiting the formation by GOY of
co        in al aspecs o petrobeum     an cffective enviroaedia departmeat.
____________  operations.
6. Oil Company Adites      -          12/33-                523                 In the -abce of MOWR's iternal          Ani wet perforned by a  innational acconting          IDA
1293                                     capability, to p    indepede  audits   firm for the yefs 1926 though 1992, rulting i a blrge
of oil companis' expee aceon           mame (nitiay valued at over US$200 msilko  of
submissions.                           expeanshen which did nwe appear to be In libe wi te
tn, of dte principal el coany's pdction sharing
7. Reervoir Erineering     -          12/33-                473                 To asl MOW in evahluting oil            Ths corutacy was employed pardy In rep      n hr    IDA    o         n
Servke                             12/90                                     c               ti nd         i        te Rsie  Exploration and Podctio  Adsr (we
opeain                                 sbove) and wa_ po       atisfactouily.             O'
'*. LPG Dveops                         7/                    1,252     1i        To ana MOiW in b_eme g a                The e_nmatany sod raeed dadims wan hWl ns
C_samltcy and Stdy                10191                                     *LPG Crash Poam,u isvv   the            weeWbly, r _inwAi  the esablishme  of br k lIng    IDA            u
_ahiahsn of sval sa  1_113 fila    sations and thbevr esiv   pdvatlzaion, seving as a
stations throoghes do e_uiy and        mI hr lther inatsou by doe prive o
opeatin  LPG ank ucks to permi         MOMR and th ecealtay wet atvely              d by a
diats    of locayc proed LuG In       Dank staff n_     who in 1989 wa staocd in Sara'
_maaem_ss of i_td gas.                 hr dx weeb  hbr dsI puspos.



_ 14 _          Attachment
Page 4 of 5
I                    I
~i  i j ix  i'        fi,iJ .111 s,{g 1     1111
.                                .
z }]~~ _--  l.                        _
}] ] S.   -  -       . -i    Be-



- 15  -                            AttachmIent
___________                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~Page    5   of    5
a .



-16-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(IDA Credit 1702-YAR)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part II, to be prepared by the Borrower, has not been submitted. Comments
were invited from the two co-financiers, but none were received.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YEMEN - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit 1702-YAR)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Title                          Approval               status
Petroleum and Geothermal
Exploration Promotion
Project                               1982              Closed in 1988
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Date              Date               Date
Item              ~~~~Planned        Revised            Actual
-  Identification/
Preparation                                                       Mid-1985
- Appraisal Mission                                                  01/22/86
- Credit Negotiations                                                04/23/86
- Board Approval                                                     05/15/86
- Credit Signature                                                   09/05/86
- Credit Effectiveness         12/31/86                              07/09/87
- Project Completion and
Credit Closing              12/31/91           12/31/93           12/31/93
- Final Disbursement                                                 05/13/94



- 18 -
Table 3: Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
As of June 30                   1987   18    18    1990   1291   1922   1993   1224
Appraisal Estimate                 .7   4.2    8.0   10.1   11.4   12.0   12.0   12.0
Actual                              -    1.3    2.4    4.3    6.3    7.7   10.1   12.7
Actual as X of Estimate                   31     30     43      55     64      84    106
Date of Final Disbursement      April 30, 1994
Table 4: Withdrawal of Credit Proceeds
(US$ million)
Appraisal
Estimates         Actual
1.  Equipment                     1.2               0.8
2.  Consultant Services           7.5              11.4
3. Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance          0.9               0.5
4.  Unallocated                     4                -
Total                       12.0              12.7
Table 5: Proiect Financing
(US$ million)
Source                   planned     Final              Comments
IDA                        12.0       12.7   Increase due to SDR exchange rate
difference, minus cancellation
USAID                       2.1         0.9   Project suspension due to Gulf
War
Netherlands                 1.1         4.8   Extension of Data Center scope
Others                       -           .3  Additional components funded by
Government of France and UNDP
Government of Yemen        -1.8               Shortage of budgetary resources
Total



- 19 -
Table 6: Status of Covenants
in Development Credit Agreement
S.ctlan                           Descriftion of Covenant                                         Coinmnt
3.02        MMO   to a"sign technical responsibility for project                 Effective project coordination ws
implementation to project coordinator,                              not provided on o cornistent basis.
3.03        NON  to dlscuss reguLarly with IDA rww technical assistance          CompLied with.
activities.
3.04       NON  to prepare quarterly reports and semi-annual reviews  n          Issuance of reports was irregulr.
project implementation.
3.05       NM  to ensure that procurement is governed by provisions of    Complied with.
Schedule 3 nd that consultants employed are suitably
qualified.
4.01(t)      NAO  to m_intain adequate records  nd accounts concerning            Complied with.
project.
4.01(b)      NONE to have project accounts  udited  nd send audit reports    Prior to 1990 not complied with on a
to IDA within six months,                                            regular  nd tim_ly basis.
4.01(c)      NONE to keep adeq"ut  records concerning statements of               Complied with.
expendituwr.



- 20 -
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources
A. Statf Inputs
Stal of
Pro-,ct Cvcl                                          Staff Weak.
Through Appraisal                                         49.8
Appraisal throuah
Board Approval                                             5.0
Board Approval through
Effectiveness                                              3.4
Supervision                                              179.4
PCR                                                        5 0 ts 
Total                                          242   (est.)
B. Mission
Stage of                      Month/    Number of   Days         Specialization       Performance Rating        Types of
Projcc t cycle                    Year       Persons  JnLici        Represented              Status                Probl
Through Appraisal                  07/85          4          8    Finance, Petroleum  Eng.          -          Identification
10/85         3          9    Finance, Patrolaum                 -         Institutional Change
11/85         1          8    Finance                           -          Institutional Change
Appraisal through                  01/86          3         12    Finance, Potrolzuc                -          Appraisal
Board Approval                     03/88          1          9    Finance                           -          Counterpart Funda
Board Approval
through lffectiv ensz              08/86         1           4    Finance                           -         Delay in hiring advisers
iz/88         4         13    Finance, Petroleum                -          Effectiveness Delay
03/87         3          6    Finance, Petroleum                 -         PSA Disagreement on LPG
Effectiveness delay
Supervision              I         07/87          1          3    Finance                           -
rI         10/87         3          10   Finance, Petroloum, Gas            1         Ga Pipeline
III         01/88         3           10   Finance, Mining                   1         Special Account
LPG project
IV         03/88         2           1    Finance, Power                    -         Gas Utilization Study
V         05/88         1          21   Finance                            2         Advisers
VI         10/88         2           10   Finance, Petroleum                2         Oil Operations
VII         12/88          3          2    Finance, Petroleum                -         Refinery Study
VIII         02/89         2           3    Finance, Petroleum                2          Oil Operations
IX         10/89         3          15   Finance, Petroleum                 2         Training
Institutional deficiencis
Implmentation Delays
Gas Developmnt Project
X         02/90         1           11   Finance                           2         Same an shove
XI         05/90         1           6    Mining                            -         Minerals Developmet
XII         11/90          4          14   Finance, Petroleum, Mining        2          Institutional deficiencies
delays, gaS development
project, minerals developmnt
XIII         05/91         2           14   Finance, Petroleum                2          Gas, pipeline end refinery
projects, project coordination
XIV         11/91         1           7    Finance                           2         Closing dato oetesion
XV         02/92          1          5    Mining                            2         Minerals Developmet
xvi         07/92          1          5    Finance                           2          Overall delay
xvII         06/93          3          6    Finance, Petroloum. Mining        1          Implemntations delays
PCR                                01/94         1           8    Finance



