DOCMENTS DIT NUMBER 1702 YAR
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance to the Petroleum Sector Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      Mer MKew.e            , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1702 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     cfA.LA  6e.9            , 1986, between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (the Borrower, and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as,to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to secure from the Agency for
International Development of the United States Government and
from the Government of the Netherlands (the Co-Financiers),
grants (the Grants) in an approximate total amount equivalent to
$3,200,000 to assist in the financing of Parts B (1) and (3), C
(2) and D of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Geieral Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Devel-
opment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agree-
ment.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a)  "Ministry" means the Ministry of Oil and Mineral Re-
sources of the Borrower;
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(c) "Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator to
be selected pursuant to the provision of Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement; and
(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 22, 1986, and
April 25, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association,
respectively.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million. six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central
Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Deposits into, and payments out if, the Special Account
shall he made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1996, and ending Febru--
ary 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such prin-
cipal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through


﻿the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, managerial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Ministry to
assign the technical responsibility for the implementation of the
Project to a Project Coordinator.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the Ministry, acting
primarily through the Project Coordinator, shall have the overall
responsibility for the management and administration of the
Project; such responsibility shall include: (i) the selection of
the advisers, specialized firms and consultants to be employed
under the Project; (ii) the selection of not less than two local
staff to operate as counterparts to each of the advisers to be
employ.d under Part A of the Project, with the exception of the
management and petroleum policy adviser; the qualifications
of such staff and the details of their work program shall be
provided to the Association, for its review and comments, by
October 31, 1986 and December 31, 1986, respectively; (iii) the
coordination of the activities provided under the Project with
other technical assistance to be provided to the Ministry; (iv)
the formulation of measures adequate to enable the Ministry to
employ and retain staff with the requisite qualifications; (v)
the preparation of criteria, satisfactory to the Association, for
the selection of staff for training under the Project; and (vi)
the handling of all administrative matters under the Project,
including the provision of adequate facilities and support staff
to the advisers to be employed under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower, acting through the Ministry, shall discuss regularly
with the Association the proposals for activities to be carried
out under future arrangements for technical assistance to the
Borrower's petroleum sector, with a view to preventing any dupli-
cation of the activities included under the Project.
Section 3.04. In order to monitor and evaluate the imple-
mentation of the Project, the Borrower, acting through the Minis-
try, shall ensure: (a) the preparation, by the Ministry, and the
furnishing to the Association of quarterly reports on the pro-
gress in Project Implementation; and (b) the undertaking of
semi-annual reviews of such progress, with the participation of
all relevant departments of the Ministry, and the furnishing to


﻿-5-
the Association, for its comments, of the findings and recom-
mendations of such review.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the consultants to be
employed under the Project, whose services are not to be financed
from the proceeds of the Credit, shall have suitable qualifica-
tions and experience and shall be employed under terms of
reference consistent with the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance        with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
Li) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exam-
ine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any Grant made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are


﻿-7-
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the agreements providing the Borrower with Grants in
the approximate total amount specified in Recital (B) of the
Preamble to this Agreement have been concluded between the
Borrower and the Co-Financiers and all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of such agreements, except for the effective-
ness of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and
(b) the Borrower has employed the advisers referred to in
Part A (1), (3) and (4) of the Project.
Section 6,.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development ond Chairman of
the Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
CENPLAN                            2266 CENPLAN YE
SANA'A
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By   /C!                  A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                        wa- f
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 1,100,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2) Consultants'
services
(a) under Part A of      3,120,000         100%
the Project
(b) under other          3,630,000          100% of foreign
Parts of the                          expenditures
Project
(3) Refunding of                770,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(4) Unallocated               1,980,000
TOTAL              10,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a' the term "foreign expeaditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in building the
technical and management capabilities of the Ministry so as to
enable it to effectively manage the Borrower's petroleum sector.
The technical assistance included under the Project consists
of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time
to achieve such objective.
Part A:   Assistance through the Services of Individual Advisers
This component provides for the employment by the Ministry,
for a period between three to four years, of a specialist adviser
in each of the following areas: (1) management and petroleum
policy; (2) exploration and production; (3) transportation,
refining and distribution; (4) accounting and auditing; (5) cost-
ing and procurement; (6) legal; and (7) training.
Part B:   Assistance through the Services of Specialized Firms
This component provides for the employment by the Ministry
of specialized firms to undertake studies and to provide specific
recommendations in the following areas:
(1) Organization of the petroleum sector, including the
Ministry. This includes: (i) evaluating the existing
organization and its tasks; (ii) assessing the manpower
needs in the sector; (iii) formulating an overall
sector structure, organization and related manpower
policy; and (iv) planning for the implementation of
such policy, including the designing of specific mea-
sures to enable the Ministry to attract and retain
qualified personnel.
(2) Review of field development plan. The review includes:
(i) collection of data; (ii) design of a geological
model; (iii) design of a digital reservoir model to be
processed by a computer; (iv) evaluation of reserves;
and (v) forecasts of oil and gas production.


﻿- 13 -
(3) Gas utilization. This includes: (i) a study of the
potential market for gas; (ii) evaluation of gas sup-
ply; (iii) evaluation of optimal methods for gas trans-
portation and utilization; and (iv) economic evaluation
of various utilizations of gas.
(4) Project management and preinvestment studies. This
includes: (i) assistance to the Ministry in undertaking
feasibility studies of investment projects in the
petroleum sector and in preparing the contract docu-
ments for, and supervising the construction and opera-
tion of, such projects; and (ii) the employment of
short-term consultants for purposes related to the
investment program in the petroleum sector.
(5) Environmental   protection. This   includes  assistance
in the preparation of regulations and procedures for
pollution control in all aspects of petroleum opera-
tions.
Part C:   Management Information Systems
(1) Accounting. This includes assistance in: (i) evaluating
existing cost accounting and financial accounting prac-
tices; (ii) assessing future requirements; (iii) recom-
mending improvements in internal control, financial
reporting and planning; (iv) designing a computerized
system, and acquisition of necessary hardware and soft-
ware; and (v) the start of operation of such system,
including the provision of related training.
(2) Data-base for exploration and production. This includes
assistance for the purposes of: (i) evaluating exist-
ing data and assessing future data requirements; (ii)
designing a system for geophysical, geological, explor-
ation and production data, collection and storage,
including the acquisition of necessary hardware and
software; and (iii) the start of operation of such
system, including the provision of related training.
Part D:   Training
This includes assistance to the Ministry in: (i) evaluating
and coordinating available sources and means of training; (ii)
designing a training plan and a selection method for trainees;


﻿- 14 -
(iii) training of specialists on various operational and manage-
rial aspects; and (iv) monitoring the implementation of the
training plan.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A.   international Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Suppliers of computer equipment and materials shall be
required to provide related services and training.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Yemen
Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appen-
dix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Office equipment and vehicles, estimated in the aggregate to
cost not more than $400,000 equivalent may be procured under con-
tracts to be directly negotiated with suppliers.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be fur-
nished to the Association prior to the making of the first pay-
ment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 16 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired :o be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evi-
dence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Parts A, B (2), (4) and (5) and C (1) of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Asociation. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to SDR 700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made.exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible


﻿- 18 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the 'gorrower from the Credit Account in accor-
d-,%e with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawns amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to the equiva-
lent of twice the amount of the Authorized Alloca-
tion.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justiiied by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 19 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will, not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


