Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No-P-4081-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $37 MILLION
TO THE PORT SAID PORT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
B
may 16, 1985
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Egypt has multiple exchange rates. As of May 1, 1985, the official
rates were:
US$ 1   = Egyptian Pound (LE) 0.70 (official rate)
LE 1    = US$1.43
US$ 1   = LE 0.82 (official incentive rate)
LE 1    = US$1.22
Since January 1985, a floating rate has been introduced, which is
adjusted daily. As of May 1, 1985, this rate was about:
US$ 1   = LE 1.32
LE 1     = US$ 0.76
Egyptian Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)         =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 metric ton (ton)  =  0.984 long ton (lg ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CLUC  =  Canal Loading and Unloading Company
CTOC  =  Port Said Port Container Terminal Operating Company
GCSW  =  General Company for Silos and Warehousing
POMT  =  Public Organization for Maritime Transport
PSPA  =  Port Said Port Authority
SCA   =  Suez Canal Authority



VOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Port Said Port Authority - PSPA
Guarantor:              Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:                 $37 million equivalent
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:   The project is designed to expand and rehabilitate the
port of Port Said, and to improve its management and
operations. It is the second stage of the expansion
program, following the construction of a container
terminal being partly financed by the Government of
Norway. The project would finance: construction of a
berth to handle general cargo traffic; rehabilitation
of existing port facilities; mobile general cargo
handling equipment; and two gantry cranes for handling
containers. In addition, technical assistance would be
provided to the Port Said Port Authority for project
supervision and for supporting the improvement of port
operations and management. No special risks are
associated with the project.
Estimated Costs:
$ Million (mid-1985 prices)
Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                              9.9      16.8     26.7
Handling Equipment                       0.1       9.1       9.2
Technical Assistance                     1.0       1.3      2.3
Total Base Cost                         11.0      27.2      38.2
Physical Contingencies                   1.4       3.7      5.1
Price Contingencies                      2.2       6.1      8.3
TOTAL COST                           14.6       37.0     51.6
These estimates are net of taxes and custom duties, from which PSPA is exempt.
Ibis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance
of their offil duti  Is contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan                                            m $ Million
Local    Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan                -        37.0     37.0
Gover,ment               14.6       -      14.6
Total                    14.6     37.0     51.6
Estimated Bank                                    $ Million
Loan Disbursements                  FY85 FY86  FY87  FY88 FY89  FY90  FY91
Annual      0.3   4.3   4.8   13.2   7.9   4.8   1.7
Cumulative  0.3   4.6   9.4   22.6  30.5  35.3  37.0
Rate of Return:        22Z
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 5432-EGT, dated May 2, 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
PORT SAID PORT AUTHORITY
FOR A PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Port Said Port Authority with the guarantee of the Arab Republic of
Egypt for the equivalent of $37 million to help finance a Port Said Port
Expansion and Rehabilitation Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects" (Report
No. 4498-ECT) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
An economic mission visited Egypt in October and November 1984; this section
is based on the findings of that mission. Country data sheets and
macroeconomic accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       Following an extended period of inward-looking and centralized
economic policies, the Government in 1974 began to gradually introduce an
"Open Door" policy with the aim of accelerating development by liberalizing
the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private investment.
Supported by large external capital inflows, the economy grew faster during
the next two years. Concomitantly, a rapid rise in foreign exchange earnings
helped narrow the current account deficit in spite of growing imports. During
the following five years, increasee petroleum exports at favorable prices,
swelling remittances from Egyptian workers abroad, revenues from the reopening
of the Suez Canal, and rising tourist receipts facilitated this process.
Between 1974 and 1980, earnings from these sources grew by 40% per annum in US
dollars, accounting for over 70% of export earnings by 1980. The resulting
increase in income stimulated the economy, which grew by more than 9% per
annum during this period.
4.       The combination of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economy. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, public sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international or economic prices and domestic
prices for many of the same goods in the uncontrolled parts of the economy,
resulting in a severe duality in the economic system. Although the fixed
prices avoided stressful adjustments in the living standards of those with
access to controlled goods and services, they created major distortions and
inefficiencies in domestic production.
V/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
P-4060-EGT (Second Agricultural Development Project) dated May 7, 1985.



5.       Investment, production and employment in the private sector have
grown faster than in the public sector; however, the latter still accounts 'or
40X of total employment, 54% of value added, 60% of total expenditure and 70Z
of total investment. The public sector finances have generally been in the
red; the overall deficit has been around 20% of GDP. Although foreign
resources and private saving have financed a considerable portion of this,
between 30% and 50% has been financed by borrowing from the banking system.
6.       Egypt's population, estimated at 45 million, is already large
relative to its quite limited arable land, with an average density higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. And this population is growing rapidly, by
2.6Z per annum, or by over one million people every year. Almost half of this
growth is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. The family planning
programs have been weak, but a recent decree has strengthened the program's
structure within the Government. The rapid economic growth of recent years
has been stimulated by external circumstances and has had only limited impact
on agriculture, industry and services which in the end are the sectors where
productive gains are needed to meet the needs of the economy and provide the
necessary jobs. For example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector account
for over 20X of CDP but only 1% of employment. While tourism and employment
abroad absorb considerably more Egyptians, their levels of activity have been
determined by external factors.
Recent Developments
7.       A reversal in Egypt's economy started in 1980, triggered by the fall-
in the price of oil. In 1981182, key macroeconomic variables took a turn for
the worse, with the reappearance of large deficits in the public budget and
the balance of payments and the rapid growth of both domestic borrowing from
the banking system and short-term borrowing from abroad. During 1982/83, the
Government took several important measures to redress the short-term
situation, even though it did not make much progress in tackling the more
fundamental items on Egypt's long agenda of pressing policy reforms. It
curbed imports and public expenditure, raised additional fiscal revenues,
reduced the growth of credit and retired some short-term debt. Both the
budget and balance of payments deficits were reduced.  The one longer-term
issue addressed was export policy, which was greatly improved in ways that
will have quite favorable long-term consequences.
8.       During 1983/84, the deterioration continued.  The elections held in
May 1984 inhibited any further measures to curb domestic expenditure, raise                0
additional revenues or dampen imports, particularly of consumption goods.
Although the rise in domestic credit was a bit faster than in 1982/83 (20% in
1983/84 versus 16Z in 1982/83), the Goverxment did restrain the growth of the
money supply, which fell from 28Z to 20% in 1983/84, thus helping to reduce
inflation pressures somewhat. Petroleum exports rose 92, in value terms, due
to a significant rise in volume; but they were still below their dollar value
in 1980/81. Suez Canal revenues were constant at just below ¢1 billion and
tourism receipts remained at the previous year's level of about g0.5 billion.
An unexpected rise in imports by 14% caused the current account deficit to
increase from $2.7 billion (11% of GDP) in 1982/83 to $3.3 billion (12% of
GDP) in 1983/84, despite a sharp jump in workers' remittances of almost $800
million. Net longer-term capital inflows did not rise by as much due to



3-
rising debt service obligations. The debr-service ratio rose from 28.5Z in
1982/83 to 30.1Z in 1983/84. As a result, short-term external debt grew by
about $700 million and now constitutes 242 of overall civilian debt.  These
are all well-known symptoms of an unsustainable external situation pointing to
the need for structural adjustments.
9.       The 1984/85 budget, delayed due to the May election, was presented to
the new People's Assembly only in September 1984. Several taxes have been
raised and, through the sale of a higher-priced loaf of bread, food subsidies
are expected to fall. Although opposition to this move in some quarters
caused its temporary roll-back, the higher-priced bread is slowly replacing
the lower-priced one and was about 802 implemented at the beginning of 1985.
The price of electricity was raised in November 1984-for the fifth time since
April 1982, and another rise is expected in the Spring of 1985. These rises
have kept the price of electricity from falling in real terms over the last
three years, arresting the steady fall over the previous decade. A subsidy on
cigarettes (about LE 170 million per annum) has been eliminated. Price
increases have also been authorized for some products manufactured by the
public sector. These measures are encouraging as first steps and are expected
to reduce the budget deficit from 23Z of GDP in 1983/84 to an estimated 19% of
GDP in 1984/85, a level which is still much too large to be sustainable.
10.      The balance of payments deficit is likely to prove troublesome in
1984/85. The price of oil has fallen so that the large increase expected in
export volume is unlikely to result in higher dollar earnings. Reflecting
slower activity in the Gulf and turbulence in the foreign exchange markets,
workers' remittances are expected to decline. Non-oil commodity exports
(i.e., manufactured and agricultural products), which rose by over 502 in
volume terms from 1981/82 to 1983/84, are the one bright spot. Although these
are projected to increase substanLially, they will not translate into major
increases in total dollar export earnings, as the base is small and commodity
prices in dollars have fallen sharply. The result of the above forces is that
foreign exchange is scarce. The Government has begun to cut overall imports
by raising prices and extending import controls. In January 1985 the
Government introduced a flexible and depreciated rate for use in the
commercial banks, initially set at LE 1.251$, while it abolished the own
exchange import system (on licensed imports financed by the sale of foreign
exchange deposits between private individuals). This means all imports now
require a license from the Import Rationalization Committee. As a result, all
commercial bank transactions which previously had occurred at LE 1.12/$, and
those which had occurred in the free market at a rate which has fluctuated
between LE 1.301g and LE 1.40/1, are now to be conducted at the flexible
commercial bank rate.
11.      While the introduction of a flexible, unified and more depreciated
rate for foreign exchange is to be welcomed, the extension of the import
control system is harmful to improving the competitive efficiency of an
already overly-protected, high-cost domestic productive structure. Egypt
needs to adopt polic-ies (reduce subsidies firther, raise publicly controlled
prices, cut the budget deficit, raise interest rates and rationalize
investment) to improve allocative efficiency and, in this way, manage more
effectively the demand for foreign exchange.



-4-
Development Potential and Constraints
12.      The external resource position facing Egypt during the 1980s
inevitably will be less favorable than in the 1970s. Nevertheless, given
appropriate policies, Egypt has the potential for sustained economic growth
and development. Its population constitutes a large domestic market, and the
Nile River provides ample and reliable irrigation to the country's
agricultural land. Favorable year-round growing conditions suggest that
considerably higher yields are possible. Egypt has a key geographical
location, a relatively skilled labor force, somewhat varied raw materials and
major reserves of energy; these would allow a substantial degree of
industrialization and trade in manufactured goods.
13.      Egypt has been making some of the needed policy adjustments, even if
at a slow pace. For the past three years the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund have been advising the Government to accelerate the process of
policy reform. Perhaps the most important of these is to increase energy
prices to international levels and to rationalize domestic energy
consumption. Curbing the growth of demand for energy and substituting natural
gas for petroleum fuels would encourage more efficient use of Egypt's energy
resources and would add to the exportable surplus of petroleum. There have
been some petroleum price rises to selected industries and, as stated, power
rate adjustments. But these have stopped short of the substantial and
comprehensive actions needed to rationalize energy use and reduce the high
implicit economic subsidy to users (on average, domestic energy prices are at
15Z to 20% of international prices). The growth of consumer subsidies also
needs to be contained by price increases and improved targeting to low income
groups. This would ease the burden on the government budget, curb the
consequent inflationary pressure and reduce the growth of imports of basic
consumption goods.
14.      There is considerable scope to increase value added in agriculture by
shifting to a more intensive pattern of higher value crop production and by
motivating farmers to raise yields. Farmgate prices have been increased for
most crops over the past three years, but government procurement prices are
still only 602 to 80% of world market prices. Loopholes and tax exemptions
should be drastically reduced to help improve Government finances. The
foreign exchange system should be further simplified and maintained flexible,
reflecting the value of foreign exchange to the economy, both to stimulate
exports and ration funds for imports. Improvements in the structure and
operations of industrial production through export promotion, exchange rate
movements, more liberal pricing and production control policy, a carefully
designed investment program and greater autonomy in the management of public
sector enterprises would have a substantial impact on industrial productivity,
employment and foreign exchange availability. In addition to improving the
efficiency with which resources are used in the economy, most of these changes
would have a favorable impact on the mobilization of public savings and
foreign resources to help reduce the public budget deficit and restore
macroeconomic balance. Additions to the country's infrastructure would also
help reduce rising economic costs.
15.      The medium-term outlook will depend on the pace and magnitude of
essential policy reforms. Clearly it would be unrealistic to expect rapid



5
adjustments on all fronts, and in some cases it might even be
counterproductive to make sweeping changes. But adjustment with deliberate
speed across a broad spectrum is required to lay the base for sustained growth
at rates close to those which can be achieved, given the resources available
to the economy. Assuming reasonable progress in the policy area, Egypt could
maintain growth of 5% to 6% per annum in the medium term. Although the public
sector budget and current account deficits will still remain high, both should
improve over the period; and savings and investment can grow at rates that
provide for longer-term growth on a stable basis. Oil exports and Suez Canal
revenues are not likely to rise as rapidly as in the past but non-oil exports
have the capacity to compensate for this. With sound policies, Egypt could
finance needed imports by additional export earnings and continued success in
attracting private foreign investment and official aid transfers.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
16.      At mid-1984, Egypt's publicly guaranteed non-military medium- and
long-term external debt was estimated at $16 billion.  Private non-guaranteed
debt has been assessed at about $700 million. In addition, other banking
system obligations, including short-term debt, not reported in the Debt
Reporting System (DRS), are estimated to be *7.4 billion; so that Egypt's
total identified civilian debt is about $24.1 billion (82% of GDP). Egypt's
military debt is reported to be $5.7 billion (excluding an estimated *3
billion military debt to the eastern block countries, which is not being
serviced). Total civilian debt service payments in 1983/84 are estimated to
be about $3.4 billion, giving a debt service ratio of 30.1% as against 28.5Z
in 1982/83.
17.      The volume and structure of Egypt's medium- and long-term external
debt is dominated by large borrowing from official sources. Loans from
bilateral sources comprised 60% of medium- and long-term n=- bank debt
outstanding at June 30 1984, and those from multilatexal institutions 23%
(the Bank Group by itself is 10%). The United States was Egypt's foremost
bilateral creditor (47% of outstanding bilateral loans) followed by Kuwait
(12%), Saudi Arabia (10%), Japan (9%) and Germany (6%).
18.      Given Egypt's immense development needs and growing resource gap,
gross external capital requirements are projected to remain sizeable. Even if
these were reduced to keep the debt service more manageable by curtailing the
*       growth of imports, appropriate macroeconomic policy adjustment would still
remain critical. Without this, external debt service could become
unsustainable in the medium term. The Government recognizes the urgency of
the matter and, as stated, has begun to take some measures.  It is also
negotiating a possible standby arrangement with the International Monetary
Fund and is trying to obtain additional bilateral aid. This support, together
with appropriate policy actions, should enable Egypt to manage its medium-term
growth on a sustainable basis.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
19.      As of March 31, 1985 the World Bank Group had approved 41 loans and
31 credits to Egypt. Total commitments as of that date amounted to $2844.1
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
P-4060-EGT (Second Agricultural Development Project) dated May 7, 1865.



-6
million, of which $1897.0 million Gad been disbursed.l/ About 34% of approved-
operations finances projects in the industrial sector, while 18% supports
agriculture, 18% transport and telecommunications, 18% power and energy, and
10% the social sectors (including education, population, urban development and
water supply and sewerage). Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of March 31, 1985.
20.      The strategy underlying Bank activities in Egypt during the 1970's
and early 1980's aimed at rehabilitating damaged capacity, improving
maintenance practices, eliminating critical deficiencies and bottlenecks to
development, and helping the setting up and strengthening of institutions.  To
achieve these goals, the Bank supported development in a wide spectrum of
sectors and served not only as provider of direct financing but also as a
catalyst for bilateral and multilateral aid to Egypt.
21.      In support of this strategy, the Bank helped the Government
rehabilitate the Suez Canal, and assisted in maintaining the productive
capacity of the railways and of the agriculture sector. Bottlenecks in the
transportation sector (particularly ports) and in the power sector were also
addressed with Bank financing. Attention was also given to the provision of
productive inputs, with special emphasis on imported materials and energy.
Deficiencies in the areas of cement production, textiles, agricultural
productivity and skilled manpower were eased through projects in the
respective subsectors. Most projects included important technical assistance
components aimed at strengthening the implementing agencies and other sector
institutions. The Egyptian Electricity Authority, the Development Industrial
Bank and the Suez Canal Authority are good examples of agencies helped by Bank
efforts to promote institution building in Egypt.
22.      The Bank strategy for the future will focus on helping the country
restore macroeconomic balance through improved investment allocation, resource
mo-ilization, export promotion and employment policies. To do this, efforts
will concentrate on projects that raise output, exports and employment in
agriculture and industry. Other projects planned to be financed would sepport
economic development by providing the necessary transport and urban
infrastructure, as well as skilled manpower. The Bank's past experience In
these sectors is being supported by substantial economic and sector work to
enhance our policy advice to the Government.
23.      Continued dialogue is proceeding on macroeconomic and sector policy
issues, including energy pricing, agricultural incentives, and fiscal
disequilibria among others. The dialogue would hopefully lead to agreement on
some important policy actions that currently preclude Bank cooperation in
energy and related activities that 'sould be good candidates for Bank
assistance. These include power generation, energy conservation, industrial
restructuring, fertilizer productcln, gas development and coal terminals.
1/ These numbers exclude a $100 million loan for a Construction Industry
Project, a $170 million loan for a Small and Medium Scale Industry
Projec', and a $125 million loan for an Export Industries Development
Project, app-:oved by the Board.



7
Progress in this area would also facilitate the reactivaron of cofinanciers
meetings to help finance an important share of Egypt's resource gap.
24.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY84 represented 11% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debt) were about 4% and 3Z,
respectively, as of June 30, 1984. These shares are expected to remain at the
same level in FY86 and FY87. It is estimated that in FY86, debt service
payments to the Bank and IDA will be about 5% and 0.2Z, respectively, of
Egypt's external debt service payments. Disbursements have shown a rising
trend in the last three fiscal years, and reached $347 in FY84. up from $252
million in FY83 and $190 million in FY82. This trend is the result of
improvements in overall project implementation and of better knowledge of the
Bank's procurement and disbursement procedu:es by the Egyptian authorities.
IFC
25.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1985, totalled $102.47 million. Most of the
Corporation's activities have been lending operations. The most impoxtant
projects financed are a project for an agricultural complex primarily for
sugar beet, a building materials project in Suez and a reinforcing bar project
at El Dikheila. IFC has provided technical assistance in the design of
incentives to private sector investments and in the development of the capital
market. IFC is considering several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.       The Sector
26.      Egypt's transport network is adequate in coverage.  The most
important transport corridors are those along the Nile; the ones leading from
Cairo to Alexandria, Ismailia and Port Said; and the ones leading from the
densely populated Delta area to th^ Suez Canal (see attached IBRD map 18621).
The demand for transport has increased dramatically since 1975 as a result of
the rapid economic growth experienced by the Egyptian economy.
27.      Roads are the dominant transport mode and have had to accommodate
most of the recent growth in traffic. Between 1975 and 1983 the number of
trucks increased at an average annual rate of about 25%. The number of buses
grew at about 10% per year on average in the same period. Following the
implementation of a more liberal economic policy, port traffic also increased
at a very rapid rate and has almost trebled since 1975. Railways and inland
waterways faced important capacity and fleet constraints that prevented them
from substantially contributing to meeting the increasing transport demand of
the economy. Railway freight traffic decreased from 8.4 million tons in 1974
to 6.7 million tons in 1982, and has stabilized at this level.  The growth in
long distance traffic and motorized transportation on the waterways was only
modest - from 3.5 million tons in 1979 to 4.3 million tons in 1982.



-8-
28.      The waryears ending in 1973 left most phybical assets of the
transport system in a dilapidated condition. To meet the increasing demand
for transport services, in 1975 the Government embarked on a program to
correct the main physical inadequacies that included shortage in locomotives
and rolling stocks, congestion at all ports, poorly maintained roads and
waterways, and an inadequate inland waterway fleet. The program initially
included funds for the most urgently needed rehabilitation works and received
assistance from the Bank Group (paras. 33 - 37).
29.      At present the main constraint in Egyptian transportation is the
weakness of the sector institutions, particularly in planning and operational
activities. Transport agencies are constrained by restrictive civil service
regulations and suffer from low salary structures and limited career
prospects.  The resulting shortage in qualified staff add to the difficulties
of the institutions. Inadequate maintenance, tariffs below cost, poor service
provided by public trucking and bus companies, and grossly distorted energy
prices are among the problems currently faced by the sector.
Government Strategy
30.      Based on the two initial phases of a comprehensive National Transport
Study completed in 1981, the Transport Planning Authority prepared a Five-Year
Transport Plan for 1983-87 that has been incorporated in the Government's
National Development Plan for the same period. The Transport Plan strategy
aims at: (a) increasing foreign exchange earnings through improved cargo
handling and higher capacity of the Suez Canal and of pipelines; (b) better
utilization of existing facilities throue adequate maintenance; and (c)
improving inland waterways and railways to attract long distance bulk cargo
movements to these energy-efficient, less costly transport modes and away from
the road network. The Plan allocates about 22Z of total public sector
investment to the transport sector, compared to 29% in 1977-82. Despite this
relative decrease, the allocation of resources to transport seems adequate for
the expected growth in demand, estimate3 at 8% per year.
31.      Transport accounts for 30% of domestic petroleum consumption.
Notwithstanding some increases in recent years, at the end of January 1985 gas
oil was priced at about 13% of its economic cost and gasoline was priced at
about two thirds of its economic cost. The Government has repeatedly stated
its intention to reduce and eventually stabilize the level of implicit income
subsidy to transport users.  In early February 1985, the Bank was informed
that actions will shortly be taken to substantially increase the prices of
fuel oil and gasoline, as well as some railway and road charges and
electricity tariffs. Although the new measures would not yet bring oil and
energy prices up to their economic costs, they can be considered as an
important first step in the reduction of distortions in an economy where
subsidies are pervasive and their complete elimination is therefore a
politically difficult task.
Bank Strategy
32.      Bank strategy in the sector aims at supporting the Government's
efforts to develop an efficient and balanced transport system to meet the



-9-
current and anticipated needs of the growing economy and population.  The
objective is to cooperate with the Egyptian authorities in achieving their
goals (see para. 30), as well am to address policy issues within the Transport
Plan, to enhance the efficiency of the sector and to improve institutions,
both at modal and sectoral levels, through training, organizational and
operational reforms. Given the crucial role of transport in supporting future
economic growth, the Bank devoted a substantial amount of resources to the
sector in the past. Several other projects are being considered for future
Bank financing within the framework of the objectives expressed above. These
include projects in the fields of inland waterway transportation, highway
maintenance and coal terminals for power plants.
Previous Bank Projects
33.      The Bank Group has made one IDA credit and eight Bank loans to assist
the rehabilitation of transport facilities in Egypt. Loan 243-EGT of 1959
($56.5 million) repaid in 1974, Loan 1064-EGT of 1974 ($50 million) and Loan
1482--EGT of 1577 ($100 million) successfully supported the development of the
Suez Canal. An IDA $30 million Credit 284-EGT of 1972 (First Railway Project)
and a $35 million Loan 1098-EGT of 1975 (Second Railway Project) provided
support for the 1971-1977 rehabilitation and modernization program of the
Egyptian Railways. The Second Railway Project had strong institution-building
objectives and financed the National Transport Study mentioned in para. 30.
However, as the performance of the Egyptian Railways did not improve
substantially and the Government's commitment to this objective remained
inadequate, the Bank discontinued lending to the railway subsector.
34.      In the port subsector, the $45 million Loan 1239-EGT of 1976 (Port of
Alexandria Project) helped finance the rehabilitation of the Alexandria port.
Execution of the project was delayed, mainly due to delays in contract award
for civil works in what was the Bank's first involvement in Egypt's port
sector. Project design since appraisal has been modified to cater for
containers. Construction was completed early in 1984 providing much needed
relief for the growing containerized cargo movements. The $132 million Loan
2183-EGT (El Dikheila Port Project) of 1982 is designed to assist in the
construction of a new port at El Dikheila (10 km west of the port of
Alexandria). The project includes facilities for containerized cargo and a
mineral jetty for the reinforcing bar mill under construction at El Dikheila,
which is being jointly financed by the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation
*      Fund, IFC and the Bank (Loan 2280-EGT of 1983, El Dikheila Reinforcing Bar
Project).
35.      In the urban transportation area, the $59 million Loan 2176-EGT of
1982 (Greater Cairo Urban Development Project) aims at initiating a new
approach to urban transport in greater Cairo, based on low cost traffic
engineering and management measures, at improving the efficiency of the public
transport system and at strengthening institutional capabilities for urban
planning, management and service delivery in the greater Cairo area.
36.      In highways, the $24 million Loan 2330-EGT of 1983 (Road Maintenance
Project) supports the Government's efforts to improve the road subsector by



- 10 -
emphasizing maintenance of the existing road network. The project includes a
two-year road maintenance program, upgrading of training facilities and
improvement of traffic safety and controls. The project also includes
technical assistance to strengthen the Roads and Bridges Authority's
institutional capacity through improved planning and staff training.
37.      Past experience shows that Bank-financed transport projects in Egypt
had a favorable impact on strengthening the organizational and institutional
aspects in all subsectors. Technical assistance components have been
particularly important in this respect. Substantive problems, mainly related
to cost-recovery, still remain unsolved, particularly in the railway sector.
The proposed project would continue Bank support to institution building in
Egypt and would help develop financial management and planning capabilities in
the second most important institution in the port subsector, the Port Said
Port Authority.
B.       The Port Subsector
38.      Egypt is mainly served by the ports of Alexandria and Port Said on
the Mediterranean coast. The ports of Suez and Safaga on the Red Sea coast
are relatively small, handling primarily specialized cargo and nominal amounts
of other traffic. Alexandria is the largest port, handling about 75% of the
country's maritime traffic. Alexandria and Port Said are the only ports
providing a whole range of services and facilities to support Egypt's foreign
trade. With the rapid growth of the economy, total tonnage handled (excluding
petroleum products) in all ports increased nearly three times, from 9.7 tons
in 1975, to 28.7 tons in 1983. Containerized traffic, although rapidly
increasing, is still limited almost ecclusively to the ports of Alexandria and
Port Said.
39.      The rapid growth in traffic has created serious -',ngestion in all
ports. The ports of Alexandria and Port Said have been forced to operate well
beyond their capacities. The problem is most acute at Port Said, where
traffic (excluding petroleum) increased from 2.8 tons in 1978 to 5.2 tons in
1983. As a result, rising volumes of traffic, including over 75% of general
cargo, are being lightered. Currently, berths available for barge operations
are saturated and the barge basin is fully congested with several rows of
barges waiting to be unloaded. Maneuveriz:g of empty barges is carried out
manually.  This is a time consuming an' costly operation; average ship
servicing time for general cargo is about five days, which is excessive. Ship
turnaround time is in some cases as high as 27 days.
Port Development Plan
40.      The long-term solution to the port capacity problem has been
formulated in the National Port Plan within the framework of the National
Transport Study mentioned in para. 30. Recent updating shows that growth in
traffic is ahead of earlier projections and that the proposed long-term port
capacity expansion will be fully utilized earlier than anticipated. The Plan
includes the expansion of the port of El Dikheila (para. 34) and the first



- 11 -
phase 6f the Port of Damietta, which ha. started.  The Plan also includes the
expansion and rehabilitation of the ports of Port Said and Suez.
C.       The Port of Port Said
41.      The Port Said port (map IBRD 18622-R) was established in 1859 when
the Suez Canal was constructed. Located at the northern entrance to the Suez
Canal, it enjoys a unique position in world shipping movements. Vessels bound
for Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East pass the port every day. Port
activities came to a complete stop in 1969, after the Canal was closed in
1967. After its reopening in 1975, the widening and deepening of the Canal,
together with the congestion at the port of Alexadria, resulted in an economic
boom in the city and rapid growth in the port traffic. Since 1980, the Port
Said Port Authority (PSPA) has been in charge of the management and operation
of the port (see paras. 47-49).
42.      Existing port facilities are old and inadequate to meet the current
level of traffic, which is increasing rapidly.  Much of the port traffic is
being handled by barges that commute between ships moored-at buoys located on
the eastern bank of the Canal and shallow draft berths at Port Said port on
the western bank. The only two deep-water berths available were constructed
about 20 years ago. Port facilities include a 520 m berth 7.5 m deep, for
supply goods, mainly maize, flour and sugar; a 660 m berth 8 m deep for grain
and cement in bulk, a 1,125 m berth 3 m deep for oil tankers mooring at buoys;
and a 300 m berth 3 m deep for barge operations. The existing capacity is far
short of the needs of the current level of traffic, which reached 6.1 million
tons in 1983 when about 1.6 million tons had to be lightered. Under the
ongoing expansion and rehabilitation program, construction of a 345 m
container berth recently started and is scheduled for completion in late
1987. Cargo handling equipment is adequate to meet actual and forecast
traffic, except for the container berth under construction and the
multi-purpose berth under the proposed project.
43.      Most cargo handling is carried out by the Canal Loading and Unloading
Company (CLUC), a goverment owned enterprise, integrated in the Public
Organization for Maritime Transport (POMT), which was recently established as
a holding company under the Ministry of Maritime Transport. Two private
enterprises licensed by PSPA unload and bag imports of bulk cement and wheat.
A new company, the Port Said Port Container Terminal Operating Company
(CTOC), was recently set up under POMT to operate the container terminal and
the proposed multi-purpose berth. A close working relationship exists between
PSPA and CLUC to handle the day-to-day operation of the port and to plan
future activities. Storage is carried out by the General Company for Silos
and Warehousing (GCSW), a public enterprise based in Cairo and active in all
major Egyptian ports. Several public companies provide storage for
refrigerated cargo.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.      The proposed project is part of the Port Said Port Master Plan and is
an element of the Government's long-term port development program. A $500,000
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was advanced by the Bank at the



- 12 -
Government's request for soil investigation, engineering and design of the
proposed project. These scudies are being carried out by USA/UK consultants.
The project was appraised in September 1984. Negotiations took place in
Washington in April 1985. The Egyptian delegation was headed by Dr. Erfan
Shafey, First Undersecretary of the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation. A Staff Appraisal Report (IBRD Report No. 5432-EGT) is being
circulated separately. The main features of the loan and the project are
given in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
45.      The proposed project will assist the Gorernment in the expansion and
rehabilitation of the Port Said port and will improve infrastructure support
to Egypt's foreign trade. The main project objectives are: {i) to reduce
excessive lighterage by providing an additional multi-purpose deep-water
berth; (ii) to increase the efficiency of port operations by providing modern
cargo handling equipment and rehabilitating existing facilities; and (iii) to
strengthen PSPA's management capacity, including budgetary control, planning,
cost accounting and internal audit, through technical assistance and staff
training.
Project Components
46.      The project includes the following components:
(a)  construction of a multi-purpose berth 250 m long and 12 m deep
(including dredging, transit shed and support facilities) to
handle general cargo traffic;
(b)  rehabilitation of existing port facilities, including purchase
and installation of fenders, cathodic protection, improvement of
the electrical system and provision of substations to operate
the container cranes on the multi-purpose berth;
(c)  provision of mobile cargo handling equipment to handle general
cargo traffic on the above-mentioned berth;
(d)  provision of two gantry cranes for handling containers; and
(e) technical assistance to PSPA for: (i) project preparation
(pre-financed by the PPF); (ii) supervision of civil works and
equipment purchase; and (iii) improvement of port operation and
financial management (including budgetary control, internal
audit, cost accounting and pricing) through consultancy services
and training.
The Port Said Port Authority, PSPA
47.      Until 1980, the Suez Canal Authority (SCA) was responsible for port
operations, maintenance and development in Port Said. PSPA was then
established as a goverrment entity under the Ministry of Maritime Transport
with overall responsibility to develop, manage and maintain the port



- 13 -
facilities. PSPA has jurisdiction to supervise operations performed by other
public enterprises with the exception of the operations of SCA, which
continues to be responsible for control of ship movements, pilotage, towage
and mooring services, to ensure that convoys transiting the Suez Canal are not
adversely affected by port operations. Coordination between PSPA and SCA is
good.
48.      The organizational structure of PSPA is sound and well adapted to the
needs of efficient port administration. The PSPA Board includes 22 members
representing the central and local governments, SCA, and port experts,
operators and users. Decisions are ratified by the Minister of Maritime
Transport, often on a non-objection basis. PSPA's budget is part of the
public budget. The organization of the port provides adequate flexibility for
efficient management and operation. Since PSPA is a recently created agency,
its organization is gradually being developed and many positions are still
vacant. PSPA will prepare and provide to the Bank, by December 31, 1985, a
staff development plan to ensure that all positions needed to effectively run
and operate the port are filled by a specified date (Loan Agreement, Section
4.04). Total staff now numbers 560, of whom 429 are regular. To reduce the
problems caused by low salary structures, a bonus system to bolster the
staffing, technical and managerial capabilities is being introduced.
49.      PSPA will be responsible for project implementation, including
procurement, supervision, and maintenance. PSPA's responsibilities in the
implementation of the project have been set out in detail in an Action Plan
covering key aspects of project implementation, port operation and management,
and including specific target dates which were discussed and agreed during
negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). At the present time, PSPA is
satisfactorily supervising the construction of a container berth and the
preparation of feasibility studies for the proposed project. To ensure
adequate discharge of its responsibilities once project construction starts,
PSPA will establish a Project Unit to coordinate all tasks related to project
implementation by December 31, 1985. The Unit will be staffed to the
satisfaction of the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 5,
para. 1).
Land Availability
50.      PSPA had leased the land needed for the proposed project to two oil
distributing companies that are still occupying it. According to the Lease
Agreement, PSPA is required to give one year's notice to the lessees to vacate
the land. PSPA has notified the two companies that they should vacate the
lard before July 1, 1985. Already in 1983, one of the two companies removed
some oil tanks and other facilities to allow the construction of the container
berth to proceed. Complete evacuation and availability of the land needed for
the project would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01).
Technical Assistance
51.      The technical assistance component of the project will help
strengthen the departments that are not yet fully developed and will allow



- 14 -
PSPA to improve coordination of all entities operating the port. Studies will
also be financed under the technical assistance component to define and
enforce performance standards, update and develop port regulations, and
monitor storage activities to accelerate turn around of goods and minimize the
storage area occupied by damaged or discarded cargo. Under the Action Plan
(para. 49), PSPA will: (a) implement a training program to bolster its
traffic department; (b) hire consultants to improve port strategies and
performance indicators; (c) develop the organization of the financial and
commercial department; and (d) recruit and train staff in the areas of
budgetary control, cost accounting, internal auditing, management of cash and
collection of revenues, and management of stores. The Bank has helped PSPA
prepare terms of reference for consultants needed for supervision of civil
works, equipment purchase, technical assistance and training. Counterpart
engineers to assist the consultants employed for project supervision will be
appointed by December 31, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 2(a)(ii)).
Experts in port operations and financial management will be hired by December
31, 1985. (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Construction and Operation
52.      The multi-purpose berth will be the continuation of the container
berth now under construction. Container crane rails will be extended to the
proposed berth so that the cranes can be used on both the existing and the
proposed berth. Mobile handling equipment to operate the multi-purpose berth
will be provided under the project. Handling and stacking equipment for the
container berth will be provided by CTOC. The Government will cause CTOC to
provide equipment for handling and stacking containers to ensure efficient
operations of the container terminal by June 30, 1987 (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.01).
53.      The mobile cargo handling equipment for the multi-purpose berth and
the container cranes would be either leased or transferred by PSPA to CTOC as
a share in kind of PSPA in CTOC's equity. PSPA is expected to hold about 40%
of CTOC's equity. PSPA and CTOC will enter into an agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, specifying the ownership of the container cranes and the mobile
cargo handling equipment and the conditions for the use and operation of the
container terminal, the multi-purpose berth, the container cranes and the
mobile cargo handling equipment. This agreement would ensure that the
ownership of the equipment financed under the project is not transferred by
CTOC without both the Bank's and PSPA's consent, that the facilities are
appropriately insured, operated, maintained and supervised, and that CTOC will
generate enough revenues to earn an adequate return on its investment (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04). Signature of this agreement is a condition of
disbursement for the container cranes and the mobile cargo handling equipment
to be acquired under the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3).
54.      Port Said is a free port within a free trade zone; however, the
movement of traffic to and from the port is still subject to customs control.
PSPA is formulating a proposal to streamline customs procedures for container
traffic, whereby it will be possible to carry out the customs inspection at
destination. A decision on this is awaited before completion of the container
terminal. The Customs Authority also collects storage dues on behalf of



- 15 -
PSPA, retaining 10 as its commission. The Action Plan provides that PSPA
vill initiate studies to improve the customs clearing procedures and the
system for collection of storage dues.
Maintenance
55.      Although PSPA is responsible for the maintenance of port facilities,
its engineering department is not adequately staffed to ensure proper
maintenance and supervision of contracted works. To strengthen the
department, its staff will be increased to five civil engineers, two
mechanical engineers and two electrical engineers by December 31, 1985 (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 2(a)(i)). To further improve maintenance
practices, PSPA will: (i) prepare a report on needed maintenance work by
December 31, 1985, for Bank review; (ii) complete the agreed maintenance
program by December 31, 1986; and-(iii) submit for Bank review at the end of
each calendar year a report on maintenance carried out during the year and the
corresponding costs, as well as maintenance works scheduled for the next
calendar year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 5, para. 2(a)(iii)
and (vi)). CTOC will be responsible for the maintenance of the mobile
container handling equipment provided by them (Guarantee Agreement, Section
_,01).
Proiect Costs and Financin-
56.      The total cost of the project is estimated at about $52 million
equivalent, of which $37 million (about 72%) is in foreign currency. Details
of the cost are given in the Loan and Project Summary. Cost estimates for
civil works and equipment are based on international prices for similar items
and on recently executed port projects in Egypt updated to June 1985.
Imported materials and equipment for the project are exempt from customs
duties. Cost estimates for project preparation are based on the actual
contract signed with the engineering consulting firm. Supervision is
estimated to require 100 man-months for the whole period of project
implementation. The assistance of a port operation specialist (18 man-months)
and financial management and port tariff study specialists (80 man-months) and
about 40 man-months of training abroad are also included in the project cost.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 15% for civil works and 1OZ for
equipment and technical assistance. Price contingencies have been provided
for all project items as follows: 16X in 1985, 14% in 1986 and 12% thereafter
for local expenditures, and 5Z in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% thereafter for
foreign exDenditures.
57.      The proposed Bank loan of $37 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project and the Government will provide all counterpart
funds necessary for project completion. Under present plans, PSPA is expected
to cover about 5% of the project costs from accumulated depreciation funds.
The Government funds would be lent to PSPA for 20 years, including a grace
period of four years, at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum. The 1983-1987
Five-Year Development Plan allocates LE 45 million to both the ongoing
container berth and the proposed multi-purpose.berth, but additional funds
will have to be allocated for investment in the 1987-92 Plan to allow
completion of the works. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government intends to provide the required counterpart financing.



- 16 -
Financial Evaluation
58.      PSPA's income statements indicate that it is a financially healthy
institution. However, there are a number of deficiencies that will be
addressed in the process of project implementation. Over LE 1 million is
overdue by lessees of PSPA land because of an ongoing dispute with SCA on the
ownership of some land in the port area. The Government will act to resolve
this matter by December 31, 1985 (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). The
present average collection period of 4 months needs to be reduced and the
revenue collection system should be improved. PSPA will submit to the Bank
proposals of measures required to reach a two-month average revenue (including
rent) collection period by a date specified in the Action Plan (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.04).
59.      Most fixed assets have been transferred by SCA to PSPA.  Their
current value, about LE 7 million, is understated. This is partly because
land transferred is given no value. According to the decree establishing
PSPA, the assets of the authority are to be defined by presidential decree and
valued by a committee, but both the definition and the valuation of assets are
still pending. The Government will appoint a valuation committee by June 30,
1986, and complete the asset valuation by December 31, 1986 (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.03 and Loan Agreement, Section 5.05).
60.      Port and mooring dues are common to all Egyptian ports and
established by law. Charges on storage, floating crafts, and cranes are
specific to Port Said but subject to Government approval. In addition to
normal port tariffs and fees, PSPA will collect rent for leased facilities and
dividends from CTOC operations. Although revenues currently enable PSPA to
maintain a sound financial position, the present tariffs may not be fully
adequate in the absence of a cost accounting system. By a date specified in
the Action Plan, a cost accounting system will be introduced in PSPA to: Ci)
facilitate comparison between revenues generated by the present nationwide
tariffs and each cost center; and (ii) allow setting of all tariffs specific
to the Port Said port in relation to the costs of the services provided.
Following the introduction of such an accounting system, cost-related charges
for the items specific to Pcrt Said will be introduced by a date specified in
the Action Plan (Loan Agreement, Section 5.06 and Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.04). The financial objective is for PSPA to generate sufficient reveni:ns to
cover all operating expenses, including maintenance and debt service payments
or depreciation, whichever is higher, and to make a contribution of 35% to
finance its investment program (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
61.      Operating revenues are expected to grow following the tariff
increases of January 1985. Port dues and rental fees for Bank-financed items
are estimated to be adjusted to offset inflation. On this basis, the overall
profitability of PSPA is projected to remain satisfactory, with financial
rates of return estimated to be no less than 10% after completion of
construction.
62.      To ensure that PSPA does not place additional burden on the
Government budget, a debt limitation covenant, appropriate to a situation
where practically all investments are financed through loans, is included in



- 17 -
the Loan Agreementr According to this covenant, PSPA shall not incur any
further debt without the agreement of the Bank unless its net revenues for the
fiscal year preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later period of 12
consecutive months ending prior to such incurrance, whichever is the greater,
shall not be less than 1.3 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.03).
Auditing
63.      PSPA's accounts are audited by the Central Accounting Organization
(CAO), an independent government agency whose audit procedures are acceptable
to the Bank. The auditing process includes on-the-spot investigations, a
mid-year review and a verification of final financial statements. The final
audited financial statements will be sent to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year
Disbursements
64.      Disbursements will be made on the basis of 62% of total expenditures
on berth construction (including dredging, transit shed and support
facilities), 72% of total expenditures on rehabilitation, and 1001 of the
foreign exchange expenditures on the two container cranes, mobile cargo
handling equipment and technical assistance. Any funds disbursed under the
PPF would be refunded upon effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section
2.02(c)). The project is expected to be completed in six years, and
disbursements will extend over six and a half years. This schedule differs
slightly from the EMENA Region port projects profile, mainly because an
advance payment of 20% of the cost of civil works will be made to contractors
upon contract signature. The experience in the Region shows that 95% of
previous loan amounts were disbursed in six years. To accelerate
disbursements and maintain a flow of funds adequate for project
implementation, a revolving fund would be set up. For this purpose, a special
account would be opened with a commercial bank designated by the Central
Bank. The initial disbursement would be for $2 million. The closing date for
the loan would be June 30, 1991.
Procurement
65.      All contracts for civil works and equipment under the project will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines. Construction and equipment purchase will be supervised
by independent consultants acceptable to the Bank. Under the Action Plan,
PSPA will assign qualified engineers in adequate numbers to work as
counterparts to the supervision consultants. All consultants and experts will
be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines under agreed terms of
reference.
Economic Evaluation
66.      The economic costs of the project include investments required for
the multi-purpose berth and cargo handling equipment. Cost estimates exclude
taxes and customs duties on imported items and are based on border prices of
major tradeable items. Economic costs are expressed in 1985 prices and



- 18 -
exclude price contingeWcies.  Physical contingencies are included... The
quantified benefits of the -- :e'ct include direct savings in freight charges
and reductions in ship turnaround time, cargo handling charges and damage to
cargo. The project will also generate foreign exchange earnings from
transshipment, and will reduce barge congestion, thus improving traffic
conditions both in the port and for convoys using the Suez Canal, but these
benefits have not been included in the rate of return calculations because
they are difficult to quantify.
67.      Ship-time savings attributable to the project are estimated on the
basis of the average load per vessel, the average cargo handling productivity
at anchor compared to the productivity at berth, the average ship size, and
the cost per ship/day. Reductions in cargo handling costs and benefits
resulting from the reduction in damage to cargo are limited to the traffic to
be handled at the project berth. Elimination of lighterage operations is
estimated to reduce damage to cargo by 3%. Savings in freight rates resulting
from elimination of transshipment costs are confined to container traffic to
be handled at the project berth. Because project benefits do not rest on
growth in traffic, their level remains the same throughout the analysis
period. On the basis of these costs and benefits, the project yields a rate
of return of 22%. Sensitivity tests for variations in the cost and benefit
parameters show that with a 20% increase in costs combined with a 20% decrease
in benefits the ERR would be 15%.
Project Risks
68.      No substantial risks are associated with the project.  PSPA is a
sound organization capable of handling the operations of the port. Existing
managerial weaknesses will be addressed through the technical assistance
component. The bulk of the project consists of activities on which PSPA will
be assisted by competent consultants, namely construction and equipment
purchase. The Government has expressed total support for the project and the
risk that necessary counterpart funds are not allocated in the next National
Development Plan is considered minimal. No significant environmental impact
is expected as a result of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and PSPA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of tie Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
70.      Features of the project which are of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan is the evacuation and availability of the land needed for the project
(Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). Signature of an agreement, acceptable to the
Bank, whereby PSPA authorizes CTOC to use, operate and maintain the container
and multi-purpose berths, the container cranes and the mobile cargo handling
equipment would be a condition of disbursement for the part of the loan to be



- 19 -
used to purchase the container cranes and mobile cargo handling equipment
under the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3).
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDAMION
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 16, 1985
f



-20-                                                     Annex I
Page 1 of 6
amr. . xr - DA I T.    3
EO1  sOMllT M   mnss &                             IL
1oLt    moLt    urinauft   *. aUn £ ISO EaSt    tar. aisaIC11at
T   _Ot L                      1001.4     1001.4      LO01.4
A    _IC010L_                        2ks        23.4        23.1
r - calm   CM)                                    12.0  0.oD  sIo   41          1149.4                  214OL
tw.oaau   OIo iQUZV ui)             192.0      213.0 U2 O.0                   in.z                      s.g
rOrULIOK,NiD-IhAI C S I    UIS313LO          330D3,0     4313.0
m   _man     (2 Co TOTL              37.9       42.2        44.7  d/           41.2                   445
211A 20DDROJ CTW0
FORULATiO XU VAR 2000 CNELL                               42.3 
S5aTuhE  NUU Zhu (CHIL                                   114.2
POhPULTION OChtnt
PM sq. M.                          M3         33.0        43.2              23.3                     3L7
PER SQ. 3ML SI. Law              1041.2     1162.6      L151.3              443.7                   92.4
rPoUATiO AC  SRUluUR  (2)
0-14 us                           42.2       41.3        39.2               43.6                    39.9
1-44 US                          34.7        54.9        37.1               33.1                   34.0
65 AD  AOE                          3.1        3.2         3.6                3.3                    4.1
TOTAL                               2.4        2.3         2.4  41            2.1                     2.4
go"                                 4.1        3.          2.9  -             4.3                    3.6
Ce    alRtR RAT  Cia TWOO)          44.3        33.3        34.3               as.4                   21.3
CRDE  A  RAIE (M         S)         20.2        17.2        IL2                ILL           *.1
'GOS  WJJnSmCfO  flY                  3.0        2.9         2.3                La                     2L0
pealll  itii
ACCm. a L C1005)                     ..      201         337.0
CI Or NAZiS UNs)e                   ..          .. O24.0                     222                    40.3
inM  or ramD PSo   a  CAP
1969-71-100)                        96.0        99. 0        L50               97.3                  114.3
NM CaPia surz or
CAUIzS C aer UIERU )              LO9.0      105.0       116.0              i10.8                   110.4
r :OTEW  (CSQ  IWA OLT)            78.I       73.0        73O                70.1                   67.3
OF WIRCW Aia. S  IPM             19.0       L7.0        L9.0 IC            17.8                    34.1
Caan CAGS 1-4) ES mAXZ               23.0       20.0        14.0               14.6                    5.7
LIF  EWri. AT IIT  (WARS)           44.4        49.3        37.2               57.3                   6.7
WANT MU. RAx (Ps ite)               123.0      U0.0        104.0              101.3                   60.6
ACCE.S TO SA5   -   (CZio
TOTL                                 ..         ..         4.0 Id            39.7                     44
URBA                               39.S         ..        u  71              ma.,                   ml
tSMAL                                ..         ..        SOTO71i            3B.4                   4I.2
ACCESS TO EflEU DUSILSAL
(2 OF POIMATI)
TOTAL                                ..         ..          ..                 ..                    52.9
URIS                                ..          ..          ..                 ..                   47.0
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                 ..                   24.3
POPULATIOR In  PiSICIA            2550.0      1900.0       970.0 1s          t345.1                 1917.7
!OP. ?S   sins  PuSa               1930.0 16. 1620.0 1.  Lso0.1               mi8.11                 sL
POP. PUR HOQaL ISa
TOTAL                             40.0       460.0       490.0 a            632.9                  367.2
uRsa.                             510-0 If   360.0       630.0 /d           545.5                  411.3
1am                              2190.0 If  2l0O        2410.071Z          2513.5                 2636.3
AnuiSSIs MM   SIDL BED                    ,         .     30.8 /d            26.2                   27.3
£955 SIZE Or 3095E35D
TOAL                                 -  ..                 S.2/d
mmii                               4.8          .,         s.o 7
RURAL                               ''           -         5.371
AVor  f_                              .. O  I.B. O.6./
IomN                                1.6         ..
alt                        ..          ..         .                    ..
ACSS To EliE. (: or oU0Ls)
TOUL                                ..          ..         43.7              44*.2
93AM                             U37.3          ,,       7L9 /d              77.7
URAL                                ..          ..        1B.6 7d            14.1



-21 -                                                    Annex I
Page 2 of 6
- erse M  a"              .           or Zna  GM cosswo MW-U) LL
L.,od!     1970l     U?,=TL        W. Ara" & lED "a1    LAT. MZZA   a
82JMU3S   gD wuxoz   ATIOa
piHmmAW    TOMAl                   44.0        71.0        76.0                14.3                   105.4
awi 8L.0K60 sI.                                             0      102.!                   1043 
lu.w                    521u        s*.0        *3.0                73.1                   104.5
SICONUAS  TO.                      16.0        34.0        52.0                43.0                    43.2
N&K                     23.0        44.0         .0                 52.1                    41.3
rVWLS                    9.0        22.0        39.0                33.0                    44.5
VOCOTaON8Z  o2 er 5c0nfly)           22.0        19.0        21.4                10.3                    323.
PUPIL-UA"m 3310
PUNAU                              33.0        30.0        2S.0                30.3                    30.1
1S.0       25.0        28.0                23.1                    1*..
ADULT L1TRCT RT= CZ)                 25.           ..        44.0                43.5                    79.5
=      21 CARS/TIIIUSUD 101           2.8         4.0        10.2                17.8                    46.0
RADoI VD/1101ID pop                  56.1       133.1       141.9               08.3                    225.4
TV    I     TSIIID  fop               1.9        1..0        33.1               4*.1                    107.2
UZUUFAI C-UAML GCAL
UMMST) C          2IRT%f
PU T?SAD 3010TI             *    -             22.5        60. j               31.2                    63.3
Cer2  AUAL AIZUsDACZCA1tL             2.6         2.0         1.3 ff              1.7                     2.6
58A8 1000
TOML UA33 100 (CTDO)               7453.0      9241.0    12312.0
1Z   (PUCN?                         7.3         7.2         *.1                10.8                    23.2
A I ZCPUcEnT)          58.0        54.0        50.0                42.4                    31.3
1331T5? (13n305)                   12.0        19.0        30.0                27.9                    23.9
PAR?ICIPAIIDE R8? (PE*05T)
TOM                                28.9        8.0         27.8                26.2                    32.2
MALK                               33.2        51.5        50.7                46.4                    49.3
4.2         4.1         4.5                5.6                    13.2
ecoNac 0U!SHlUU0 3AZIO                1.         1.6         1.5                 1.6                     1.4
M303 0  3VA=TZIcz
IIOZVID Er
11025  31 or HUSELDS               17.3  ±     17.4 j k   22.0 /I
BZClt  201 01 U0UStLU              44.4 Li    42.8    l   .9.2z 7..
LOWEST 201Z or   SIILD025           8.8fl       7           5. 7.
U        Sm 01  IOLDS              17.5        14.7 0      14.4 7}
LEML (tSS PU CUPIM)
u8                                   ..          ..       131.0 /b            274.1                   238.2
R0AZ                                 ..          ..        94.0 7E            177.2                   .18.0
EST?!Am RLAT?IW 11V*? MCMM
LlL  CUSS PE  CAPTA)
aU.a                                 ..          ..       110.0 /b            402.6                   52..
RM.3L                                ..          ..       lla.C W             288.9                   372.4
u0 m?   Om LEM. (Q    )
UR                                                .        21.0 /d
30381.~~ ..                             ..        z5.0 71r.
MOr AVAILABL
NOT AIPPLICABLE
/a-  ro Srom  average. for each Indicacor are PoP_UaIowU thd az±cZac   aa. Coveraa of couWtrU aw   the
ad caera d*pendn oe avallAbillcy of dAge c-d  is oo mafowr.
lb   Omlea  achervlam eeted. 'Data fEr 1960- r er to sta  yea betwec 1939 and 1941; Da  for 1970S be,    199 'and
;971; ed "Cra fo4 r linat  Racent bLUsara  boeC n 1930 aSo   3132.
Ic   L977; /d 13768 1 1iAcarad. not aln  pactiIng ia tha caetry: If 1942; IL 1973; /b 1979: It 197; / Rra
.zpa.d±esr_a; /E19I5; 11 Natioal. foer 1974.75.
/d Latest data (1985 World Bank Atlas):  1983 population 45364 thouMd-
1983 GNP per capita $700, population growth rate 2.6Z.



P}-z--ap~-51-I-s-w
u       w Sid P -  a=     -   S-  us q       5g
i-a   H-iS  *ass   fA    lS  *In.i-U-S ISSui
_ .edp1_AS SS 11    *                         m-P uu- sd i- 5
_4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (uieeS _s )Sl)I&5   si _                                                                      ._'_'3- _   -  -=
_-al  -. alk  __vwfif  T _   lq A. who_.A
T- P--     S_           s     S**u5  s -.iu      spa
,_ - , H-l-iS     *           _s51   -  up Ps-   a   q ES
- slna  .5 Sl L-SpIe  S- .  Agpm. -u             -I  MP 
_ '  -     tl- *mil il ,               pi -% A-  _- Vli
*-0> -5   _11qa  *15i-i-su--I -S  .                    es-saS- * -w  I    Ae1s _
5I31 -,                                                                P        _  .l-H- *_ 'H_-A-d -    t-, -  -    -_   p-,  . e-
eai.  ...ll-CSd  u *a.Slnl ISSSS                                                                     Su  - _  - -  I  1a U   . -  a  *am_  _-a    *51__ Sue  le
-- 1--51        -   v--i-   an..) *-PR_   AIM-asa
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  g-o <_." l-                                                                                  J        _          _         %M                    _as_b_q_;_@_d -9 M
_ z_q za,.ad q_ a___e v_ _ _aa~~5.P tsI uwWl s 555 *Sll _.15 _ fl                                         r     ia   pr a1 S
-   -   5P   P                _  - (55  _dS  -, -s-- V-S =
P 4u  v- I _- IS  tal r_am us
s8fft _ _-} a__ _ Al _3   .   '.   -._mu_ 
- (   t51   anS  - 91 a-1  l--I    C   S-[W vsI  PS155                                                                                hlu
55   _ sS _ 5  i-53l _, ), _I3   aj_ *_ei  ill __ __t  S-
-a*- ..W                 - _  '__ -a.-  -   as        a                              -a   .s 1-   a -.:    .s _          _                  *-
Vl-l    6    -5 P                -1      S AS-d l       _  M                    9.s-p as   _da    4   .    P    a  tS_  _I- i-a   S
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aa-_ 1s -I                                           V-& *S_a_*'. ai- _ .*   _ 6   *_
-_55.55 -S   55   5115 i-   ) Ins  C-es *s..s -aS~   saul.  -t u$ 1.  A , u -      U*.-  - , w,-       "h-a S-     1V
a  a  *laSs.  ss-a ISua    Sla 1-li 1,aa apsCinssAlm£5 JVMVts                ,    -a.-  aAp       op" -   e   lS)   -   -__ ins
leuss- - '-|-ai  lnn Ca-----aR SI IS-Si         I 551.SSi al-lu.,                      5 AudJ-S  at :- C-          and 1-.  -tg Si
- sas  Msss     sus          p   -l       u*a-isle,P-.3m  us d-S-11P-MSal IS-d pa  Plan95
...Pp At i-g-as                    -Iss    sts5.u     fIa -a us-Vs VWasls,i*lnaa   ale. s   J. eu-Ia -u
a-S I11~ P        Il p-  sp- :S _ u551    1- a_t._ -   _ _S   _. 1 _ 
P---6a) -$_1           ft.-  1WI- 4SS " '  l-sa _n sq pa-,- "_                                      "'. "  P  "I'l-
*- 1si p- %I   *ai _Ss             S  *l-_ 5i 55 55               _            -             L *  -  I*-Y  a   .'j  la P-   WAls de     Ad- _
-  Ia       _  a-  l                             Siam                    . . M   - 'P@m.a.mu P MP  -
.1_. -v. xm~  - 1-a.~  _a.                   e _ f_ l -- l.  a                                   1fl C-p - _ -  a   -a-- _l_S
-._1111 -w 4X-1.  -               -l,r lbP-                                                      -la-'" -St     andd   Twio
a- _I    "-lPu-I raul-                      _              -d           a  _     a  a
*l'M     -l- A"     -- -.-     _                    nmbi-W                   w AV-V W- J.              :- -      r            --_ P- -
=  a  -- n4Il  fl-_   _5S  Sal)      r                     J         1-_ SPa la5-.s   IS_. -Se  usual p - dI- *_-
T.VZ          u   S  P6 *_ Il                                                 -q1 J.                         ws   n_l
a *s           ld   5          -_ _j   S- 1ass us  aaa *aa                   _            '1 5 5 *S       i _u       des   .u-  ~WIIS -1 aAs.
- Sala-    n-_--         -li    |.                 0 pea_.  _5Sss  lsi            ea  l-ao - 555-s _.ese  .aus      AuiS rslu.
~~~*s_assm     _|X _0IM    ns SW  *s *z- 
-     -lS  r- a  1                     -     P-iA  I1- -SaIZSS                                                                              *555p
_Pli-Iusu-I  S   a-u uasG _s al       .-  rrai             r       .       - Sa-shad   - C- h   s   -a  *I             - au  p-_
-va S.- AlsSa5)a -               asSSvt7F*2                                      . .-saC   Su--A*aamu-  5      -Wl
-_      _ 41- U                           _ £ 
*eusa s.1 l u-as p si-n.h  - -as s-s-u a_.l _- _s -5 - (                                                         a  _IIS  s- _
P.=                           WtS ma us ogaa  -mlmis -l - Ial- ft                                   -L$&            i-IalUm-   -
busb..l *115    u- _a _Suamu i-apmus- _ pA.      s-Va               *           .   a- -ai- *    *-p1    a a-s   iail _P_ 4ws
o. sr-aesl -a            -aSq-                           a    ...            *         a         u   -   p          An.      -  a         .
,111.3-1 P-    a5    ssIaH-                               Pl-siass, eusisaP-       aa!w*1-uu.1a
-m _    "   s  ~ _-K             a  " I=W. "  -                           -      W            -    fiS         a _    nul-a_-u -     -_
_s  ms-u. .n -usw   d           usSuss *-s   . asu       "S .                                     _- nd *gW_
S-* -~ -5     1 H-IMFIl  1"   =     n-   ra *-a-                                 W_     t- n r -P-am      .S      l -            --
p-Pa  h51   hI    i-up- SI Aussssd1 ISIS-SI-aSall "MmaftlVl
u*.upSus.d - - pin)p- .|_ai-  u-lIla    ~   sue... -.  *t_ p-   P                                 - a        1r a a su       la-   Sl -hula
-ap I        -ta-w  ._ ---Sg-sl--sw _ sa-u"n _ *                             _  Y       l
Pb,su pa.usu-5 us-es                                         -`-sepl  mu
ps a   l.as.ui-a a-t -S *5 u usses a lsue. p-sem-w _sru s-s                                       -
-s.u   s-sps  g P- u-H--   ahhs 5               p15p.  W                          us"   -ai uu--  s   -(aIS)lwieaeiId
_tl -  _ue   JI -sill 15  tP-- (-tIl_tat PSesE lap tanl    Su                                         *ln t _a_ usILaa_eau<
WIS_ _- x-a - -m    -a        -sn -           r--_s_S  L-s  s                 -. n _ on    a. *-    l st    -
_-    51u -M         a-1    ut r  -                  d-ds -                                 o-   us                                 ai us Si
B wz     _    _n -t-                                                                                                           -Va
ASSe -use  s  ss-sA - sail-urn p                                        *-.   A-.4   ;P Si-nW~ -   I - -
*-IMA   --                                                       a      (SS-A.  st- o s ' _  .maS -n -.-I  ,, n s 3 s t
r_  tE~~~wt tqt   tt   *~~~~AttT _                                        S--P--tw 4
-s   ust n    _I n- .asu  *l1S             sua en ..   X-                     s-u us..el  s- 513  n_ _u.  n-~ us- IlSI               ll;-a
_ (SSup us as  ld- _ *. -ut-s        A .a - to _-,A    no" lu_l                                             .up  i-a_p- SI(S) Sa           P.-..
-s__wv                        ~~~t-a S-vSp-i-                  isCaW   t   SI-             aa  ldSas&s               L~
_ " _a_*-Sbd                              -_ _ v _*-                        'I-;  J-."V  M           | _      . -.P 1          -a v- limem
.5 ululi  lea-    ai -  4 _ u-i-s p-  l-sa-  Ian. A.sStel.                                                                     -spfs
X na~~~~~~~~~_  C_"   4  _Baa                                                               P J__ _-13P   .._   P---  '" a- -14 
ftI-- s   as lpS.    -_         *     a     Aa .                     3 - Sibaill- u   _-l'  - s ei 'suuuua              ell1- 5.1
Pi-iSi   H   -r- in.Ssad aqs-    1ihlall l-g sVa u-u                   Sn  ' a-m( ats . -u musu.ad S) us euiass W.Vns." V.aT*. P
*      a    Is-   - n-l _-. IVnS                  nn  _-S                                -a -p _u  a     a- a   usd                     *     n
*t-  S-    au    -sn IS P _.   - Su  *- uW Jt,=                = -     N          ts.-As _.1 V -sl-a                         i
s-a  sSsSlau  -i.u.a  ~ ~      ~5ae. ..U.da.n                               "qla    ue'- -ft       laa.5-~ll
1-uss-s  Saul p .a ..bM         aaeS3.  s-- -s,. .Mum    -S.&pdsa .3 s-.  su.-sp-u-p s.s .3u 
Aau-mSS   H- - p-a   - -u-ius.~    u-ua   a-a--    -S-S     .-Ib  as a-       -~- inus-  sql              .....aSp . ul -ll    1s P.-Mod
-aguinas ass~uis.e.    s - au- a .3ui.d              us                 S. usS - 3I-              u           mS 'L-    Ia a
I-Sad ma p       A- esuu.a       uu-- uelnu- qp usula..                       as us  au X-             --P -      az     a -up da,,         u
ASI teua- ~aui a. ei-st amzaup s5 p-ebp- pa   a%.'s l _                  55 atSTR   SI_3_s_  M  SaVS -Iu-us.slSpam
..~us.dSas a. usi-us.e.d - 55.55W.                                  Als-.I-53  lau..d -i-SP      sni wins ba    an      as T._1
aV us        .d-u ~.- -    us_t-                                          w  n    l ~I-hii. ase-.-   s-Ssaa        I
-  ..   1~~~~~~ t-S-3usul-  s- umasS nutsa- us  s auta.5 -p-    ft
-1 past-1.4 "A.  Vdlm    -v-   v  V-                    Cwma              - Va   J.bl- su-s um a- Sa   s-E .aia
*Sulsa.i-ss auaas u-a. us *-a lisle is             suS   'one Is &MI a." A.hS- aaS E.   l uS
us -sasaa.us ainid-    -      -i-   asuet   dmnn.is. *Suruu_-   Au'--aSa us Vilsus-s .- us"   us" awW.   m-A..
uS-lV4%am) Vapsua- Va  us Mi." m sIV.-mu         s.d bti,    m               ma    nam   A.       ls.    eaA
SaSs, -... us  u        15111 d am W      ale -PP.    iI-
Sapasu Ago   ab' A- a   -55   slpm  ..           I- mum sam usVIVI                  *ep a.V.% gA-5I) -S- "Mq rsA- -     H-la   P -usSl   ~a
,a-TW-su  s       Sa.u-    P i-I -Vi p- la    Pa...s  T-                   a.luu,H-,i-S            P   l) 
usa. us  aim  5511 - mIs-a. sS   SAus. su   p  SE U5blA~   ma u  1i-*s SIsaa s LIng as                         Gal
I-as n-sassuu.lu-u-a    spp:s   ad*itti-"allP   141-                      P. aeu-a  sl-                    IdU.SanI  .a-u
u-p   ' .q  sps-.dq TV4ISis  Ala-aIa  5N-   a-sI"p-                             usasbPb  ella- Saba P" mln -
..as- Abosbs,id  3al-ulq.Vu-.  abaps -       a   ma-s- -nua fuw.  uIIr     w-sa-uw Va-Mu  etcwn   Mla an              -n usu.inain . P~-js-
us u-ss5q uswas Namrs uast us -a -upa  us auusl  -a aqS5lmus        isaw    .Sbua-    1-la- esi   15- -sC    5m.- 1i           -W-ao-    0
ftq "bbains a.  an-[-         Aa-nu -in   v-sI'4   3.y im   lpsJ      -3   "M         1as          -. a          P*- Vis.e  lea us 5541"
us -s-i- ussusad  -s.assu-us'O.S-ISI=:1--- -s-s  us              sqsasaa    Va luasfs.as u--       s-sib-11a. "Pass maIs - uSiaas-I
i-.u.i   .l-A   P.Pas  CIiP-laMi-M   0, ~                               WA p    t -p "-P  -u                                  *.jp  S P     uaa-mau-
ft -unas  p   Il-I      Li- -u               n-iS    a- ama  -    Sonasa. s-     q s-isuii  A.-  Alla   e   -S       jps   sa 1uus
9 go i o2v                                                                       a-u-  ae 511
I XZNRV                                                                  -    -



- 23 -
OR" - eICOC IICAUU
PapumUtiaa: 43.4 ULitim (mid 19W3                                                                                                          ANI 
GM pet ampLraa  I OMU ml (1983 dollars)                                                                                                    Weue 4 iib   4
*mut bilies
on      e_ at1 11 currom                                               N     ^E M T  S Z
puitm)       -CIUL --           c.                                                 PSoJaea 3TD
1912113      1913   1970          11oi      i a Ua   -TN=               n l U111u 1n 1nUU                 UU/
GM "            et   i          2713t.0         U.S    9.7       3.1        4.7        5.9        5.3        5.0       5.4        5.2        4.1
FDIkuLtUm                     50347.         5.4    4.2       3.5        3.0        2.0        2.1        2.4       2.4        2.7        2.7
2e_desT  ce                   539.0        IL0      7.9      7.U        7.3        7.5        5.2       5.4        5.4        5.3        4..
-          FatLU.Ie                        41.0         22.0   10.3      U.9         s.1        7.1       9.9        4.2        9.5        9.0        4.7
Seovias di                   1l100 e          .0   13.2    10.2          9.9        6.1        *.5        5.4       *.2        4.3        4.2
Cmampie                         23434.0         4.      9.3     10.7        7.4        *.s        3.0        3.a       5.4        *.2        S.A
Came t.  e.m~                    33.           10.5   10.4       2.0       10.9        LI.       -0.4        3.5       1.9        2.3        1.L
_mtc of 0G3                      75s.0          3.1    0.C       9.5       10.1         .3       9.1        5.4        7.7        U.1        S.3
-        Kuatms at CWU                   1L54.0          4.3   1U.3       9.4        9.0        5.1      15.7       -2.1        3.2        3.4        3.1.
Os...esmi Sawias                 5555.0        23.4   -3.4    .4.4          4.1   _         _    _    _ _
loenamcn                                       57.4   70.5    85.1         92.2      0O
ZacbW  now ad                                   I-AS    1.43      W.35      1.23       1.134      -         -          - _
show at    at N.Ckat Mcean (23                                          CZ) at cImtcCet Prices
(e Carront                                    J         P 192 P   190112. Prices  l932*  rt3gce
1975   179   1910 1    93UU2  19L293 1U317 197U                   r9wiu§5  -oi-iw                   m
Crown Umuatic P      t
A griculteue                28.2  19.9      19.2     U.3    18.7    13.9    17.9                  5.1            2.0             2.5
= 1mtwy a Pctrlum el   24.5  34.1    34.1    33.4    32.5    31.3    34.4                         2.6           IlJ              4.3
- Seieea 1f                 42.7  41.2    40.3    42.7    43.1         44.3    44.9               4.4           11.5             4.9
Caseptia.                   47.7  35.3    55.9    a5.7    33.0    8753   34.4                     3.0            7.7             S.3
Crown Inesme                33A.  32.3    29.3    30.         30.7    28.2    23.S                 4.:           7.9             1.8
!: .3t ot Q33               20.2  29.7    33.4    32.0    29.1    28.8    29.9                   22.8           10.2             1.1
eart ..' cm                 41.3  48.3      "8       44.8    42.7    44.        40.I             13.3            3.9             5.0
-c:=   Natal moving         U.2   21.8    19.2    14.3    20.5    17.0          1.4               17.2          27.0              -
As t of CDP
1975   1979    1980*11   1931/32   1952153   19833      981UI
POULC 7TEIR
C    =C=UM                   22.2   22.1       27.0      24.1     ZN.        25.4      24.2
Cr                           40.    35.8       39.2      40.4      41.9      42.0      37.9
C urs..  Saplum C.) tr
Detfcit t-)               -133  -13.7    -12.2    -14.5    -15.1    -14.4    -U.J
t_._emmw  *ap_irt            17.2   20.0       21.7      23.1    Z.4        19.5      15.3
fot_ Fiaamcimm                5.9    3.9        6.4       4.0       5.9       5.4       3.7
1970-75  197-0       r-
GN Ocosa 3mm (2c  )             5.0     11.5      4.8
aw per capita gareh
cut  (2)                      2.7      8.7      2.2
3ta.iy consumption gwtb
Cate (2)                      5.8    13.4       *.S
eot                            -        3.4      5.1
nrgiml Sseig .Lamc              -        0.44    O.12
impact Elasticity               1.7      0.9      0.9
'      ini Earned on Wvrld Bok A11m aethodAela  (tbree yea aevetm9 eatha9e Trec).
f CDr for 1982M53 at :arret priesa a. -lad a1   c mabkl pricme. SeccoraL  ahares mad rates of areatb caecera CD  at fateor cot.
ef  _fla.fcturig and Mning. tlctricicy and Cotmrtctin.
W/ Distributioe sad Sqevice Saateo.
*1  Uijbted aersae of a1l cerne aecoCt items lotudiag tvr-actiane. sadsar the tre irkec rats.
w bIEC
April t95S
. .c
*p.;  198



- 24 -
WIT-MMML  TUDC                                               g^5of S
Jopuatomin  45.4 .ill. (Ud 13)
G1W per capkte   US$7002(1193 dellrm)
Aoeat (wUli)                     SApeal Creuth  ete (21 at Cenitanc 19U21/ 5  ricgs
UN at carrent
Prices)                  ACTUAL W                                     P1IKCT   D
1982183   1971    1979/                          3u
Werchndi.. Euogs              52321      6.6    19.2        7.6    12.2    -6.8    t7.3        5.4      8.5      8.9      5.0
- Pri_eer Y                    473     -30.6   -17.7    -15.2       15.2   -16.7    37.0       1.0      3.3      3.2      3.9
- Kenuf=aire. bl               612      26.0   -40.3    -16.7        1.9    13.8    20.4       7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
-  Petrolem El                4166      11.9    71.2       16.6    13.4   -10.4    14.6        5.,      9.4      9.9      U.9
merchaidime imros             9651        7.1    14.8      10.6      5.2    -6.7      U.6    -2.9       3.1      3.5      3.2
- TO"d                        7395      27.6      2.2      21.0      *.1   -10.4    23.1   -13.8        4.0      4.0      3.8
- Petrolei                     493       0.6    43.7       13.7    56.0    -2.2    11.8        7.2      7.1      6.7     5.9
-   hLiwry aed Iquip.eUt    3132        -2.6    27.2        9.1   -12.1    -1.1    -4.1        3.0      1.7      l.3      1.2
- others                      3631       5.5    10.4        5.2    19.5    -9.4    29.2    -0.4         3.1     4.1      3.8
Prices
Expart Price [adenx                     6.4    86.8    109.5   100.4   100.0    96.4    91.8    94.8   103.8   113.8
import Ptice [idex                      81.4    92.4    105.0   100.3   100.0    95.7    95.9   102.1   110.0   118.9
Twvwa of Trade  ndex                    81.6    93.9    104.3   100.1   100.0    99.7    95.8    92.9    94.3    95.7
campouicioes of  hrchandie Trade CZ)   Avenu  Animl Int remw  (Z)
(t curent Priaee)             AC cmtanc L9U2/83 prices
1979   80/81  821a3  83/8t4 U718          7811183  no31rtUI
Exports                                                                        7.1       3.9
Primry  1' t3.7                         9.6    9.0   11.2    9.4          -10.2       8.9
kamaaturseY                    15.4    1G.5   11.7   11.4   12.6          -13.7       9.6
POC e*.W']                    70.9    7O.9   79.3   76.5   78.0            19.1      r s
101parD2                                                                       6.2       4.9
FeWd                           22.8    Z7.0   27.0   28.2   24.7            5.4       3.6
Pecralem                        3.1     3.2    3.1    4.6    5.3           24.6       7.6
ruchinery                      37.4    36.6   32.4   26.2   26.8            5.3       0.6
oaters                         36.7    34.1   37.6   41.0   £3.2            5.8       7.4
9Shre of Trae with        Sare of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Iduscrial coauntries (S)   DUelopina Coencries (2)        Capital Sorplu   Oil Cporta (2)
19_5  1970  1975  19el   1965  1970   1975  198Q            1965    1970    1975    1981
DIRtCfToU OF TRADE
Exports                 .27.0  17.0  14.0  52.0    1.0   2.0  10.0  36.0               1.0      1.0      4.0   3.0
Prinary               29.0  19.0  18.0   -       17.0  22.0  l1.0    -               -       1.0       3-0    -
Nanufaccures          19.0  12.0   3.0   -       23.0  23.0   9.0      -            4.0      3.0       5.0    -
Imports                  55.0  42.0  65.0  75.0    1.O  25.0  1A.0  13.0                -       -        4.0    1.0
Based on World Bank Atlas mchoCdoloy (three year *verage exchange cate).
bl/ not including oil and oil products.
'e  Includes foreign eil comanies  expoets.
EKING
April 193M



- 25 -
*i  I
Pa. 6 *t 6
IWT- UMALAU  OPP pA817.KThIAL CAIPTTAL AM DI
1.1&o3 IISS at curZTL prices)
S?.                 P R O J C C T * D
1973   1979   19808L  l984/82    1912/83    TA37i8    1988S    1985/88   198187    19M71
eALAIIC Or PAUIMEI
Eaport of Goods and lNn-Facto,
serices                               409      5401    7803     7982        7855       8487       8748       97        tt433      13052
- Df which nerchndia. f.o.b.            2558    3917    5687      5779        5251        5935       5961       674       7958       9162
wports of Coda And  on-Faccore
Servie-                              -6612   -781L  -1144   -11465        -11.58     -1314      - -12U0 -14069    -13699         -17530
- of whicb erch.ndiie c.i.f             -5998  -7817  -10334   -10380        -9651     -ttO60      -10658    -11692    -13040      -14543
Hoc Factor Ince                          3.098    1376    1190     151         952        1329       855         727       786        902
Mat Private Trenuferr                      54      89      63       51          26         26          29        31        35          36
CurrenL Account Balance                 -1361  -1915   -2348    -3501        -2715      -3299      -3168      -3523     -3445       -3537
Private Direct Investment                317    1516    1036      1325         966        897        1014      1097      112         1270
NI. Loans and Crunca CrA ti              1141    1011    124       985        1546       2031        2091       2332      2347       2476
- official inno  and grants              128      749    1020      945        1257       1762        1762       1864     1102        1914
- private                                 113     262     224       45         289        269         329       48        545         562
Other ML? Financing Y                     305   -305      -2       576          63        -17         -80        -70     -250        -170
Overal flalance 21                       -472   -307      150      615         140        3S9         143        164       166        161
International  emers  I                  1t504    1090    1697    Z33         2381       2687        -          -                     -
- of whicb gold                           104     104     103      775         578        757                   -         -
Reserves as Pntha Import. _1              3.0     1.7    2.0       2.7         0.6        0.5        0.6        0.8       0.9         -
EKTEUiL CAPITL MAD oUtr
Croao Disbur_ts                          2758    2291    2595     3082        3299       4164       4354        5052     5313        5732
Official Crance 3                      291      72     279      395         400        90         1000       1100     150         1175
Concessioal Loans                     1600     996    1301     1034         941        362        751        73        93         1091
- DAiC                                 799     833    1103      900         785        697        621        641       779         871
- OPEC                                 93       43      69       Zs           a          0          ?          0         0          0
- tDA                                  45       55      73      8a          136        142         n          53        35         24
- Othe                                83        65      56       18          20         23         51         99       149         t96
Hon-cocession. Loans                  867      223    lO15     1653        195S       2402       2603       3159      3200        3466
- official export credit s                      50      83      185         146        162        14         135        89         63
-URND                                  57      111     154      111         120        204        196        248       286        330
- other uotilacr:al                   1L        5       4        iS          19         L7         16         10        14         19
- private                              746    1050     774     1339        1673       2037       2247       2766      2811        3054
Extcrnl Debt 6/
Debt ntastandLwg anA disbursed           995   11596   13389    14730        156t2      1647
- official                           8507    9554   10927    11932        1383        3273
- private                             1488   202    2462      2797        3229       3399
UndieburLsd Debt                        4390    4629    5951      5013        4612       4327
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                    1190    1246    2081     2371        2890        414
- interesc (official MLT)             415     428     759       912       lOO         118O
- payment as   experrs 21            21.5    17.3   21.3    26.3           2S.5       30.1
Averap Interese Rate on liu Loans        4.6      6.4     6.5      7.3         7.5        8.0
Average maturity of New Loa  (years)   27.9   Z4.5   19.5         16.9        14.4       14.7
1/  Including speci-l balnac, of paymencs financing and u.a11octed items.
2J/ minus (-) indictge  Iccu elaion of foreign assers.
3t Foreign as"cs of Centml Bank.
'I  merchandise only.
5/  Including special balane of paymens grante.
61/ Excludes sose banking syste  liabilities.
7/ Exports of goods and services (including ..rker s remitcancee) but wc forerign oil companies expocs.
ApriL 1985



-26 -                                M  tl
wP  L of 2
u mm wr mm cup iEmi ni Wm~
A. STUWI  W         imM  m AIM MA c      I u
(A ot    k 3. 1985)
wxe in smiM    US dola
1Lu'Conit    Appiwed        DMEM        PUzomu                                  (Ing. awreflatm )
Nu             Ff                                                         Oak       M      1kdiwsbe
32 t-s us  CZdEii  filly ai&    l V                                        6MBA   i58.0         -
TA 1239.         76          III        Alaammki. Pt                        45.0      -          8.8
La 1276-T 3V     76          AM         mu;m  ad V.pmb. k.                  50A       -         1.8
Cr 637           76          AK          lzpe 1pc maina  X                    -     40.0        0.7
La 1285          76          Al         COW Epc D im  1I                   lO.0      -         6.1
Ta U169          77          AS.        AUmdrin  Swiply                     53.2      -         4.1
t  719            77         AI          m6ileDelt    mIIf3                   -     27.0         0.8
La 1439          77          AM          16.1 kinosim  EII                  27.0      -         6.9
Ln A4O-T 3/      77          An          t6.1.lU1taizeZn   n                12.0      -         3.0
Cc  80           78          AM          Apiaal-J km.1q.E                     -     32.0         1.3
or 831           78          AK          kbum kDmlm                           -      14.0        2.5
Cr 850           79          AM         PFopalad lI                           -     25.0         9.6
r 868             79         AUB         16maci 1n                            -     40.0         7.8
ta Sb            79          AM          New Vally Remita Eqin-iig
sald Tadd1 Asaimca              1LO       -          3.2
Cc 909           79          Alm          hadin                               -     32.5        27.9
Cc 935           79          AN          9uasmb El 32i  T 1 Poem              -     37.0         Z.A
n 1733           79                        u     El                        IOZA 1   Pbr 4   12.0  -  27.7
Cc 98            80          AIE        Apinizba-zi.                          -     45.0        7.2
En 1804 5/       0o          cum         h.n.1       71lar a       Im       38A       -         0.5
Ln U42           s 80        Am           MB                                28.9      -         V.3
En 159           80          me          Poip sal *Pqw                      50.0      -        13.2
LnIEU6           s0          EEL          bmfM                               7.0                3.4.
Cc MI5          s80          EEA         Pa m                                 -    120.0        9.2
Cc1069           81          An          mistin m " i                         -     30.0        V.8
Cc NM3           81          me           a1o DraL<e 5/                       -     60.4       36.1
c 1u1            81          Am          Fisb Fmi f                         -        10.9        7.0
La 2l0           SI          RNMSUE    kdim1l  i                            64.       -         58.0
r 1156           81          AZ          hhei'a war 91y 5'                    -     45.7       32.6
C12c 2           81          AKE         1u2/ica Assistswe                    -      5.7        4.7
Tn 2tW.          32         AM           Telaccmicadm M                     64.0    -          57.5
ia 2D74          82 ee1pE  Inmai.1 Bii V                                  120.0      -        32.4
ta 2103          82            iCAu Qir Gm. 1m tmk                          90.0      -        21.4
tn 2176          82          Am          Gter Cairo D_  ku.1                59.0      -        52.2
Lu 2183          83          ME          EL Dilduila Port                  132.0      -        129.9
ta 2143          83          AM          Apb irahZie;  rI                   8LZ       -        69.8
Ln 2264          53          ME         Vbcagiz.L 1uii                      38.0      -        37.5
La 270           83          An          rrcigacm Pwqum Sma Oiab.    41.5             -        39.4
Lu 22W           83          AIE         El ikloila  iuGi   Der            165.3      -        151.8
D 2330           83          AKE        goodkia i                           24.0      -        23.9
Lu 2352          84          MKE   _     kt  Sapply and Sw          .        4.0      -         S.0
La 2558 6/       8.          ME          SmI1fwd SCLAl 9:a1 .              170.0      -
La 2459 6/       84          A           mq.o  I=mwim k1m.                 125.0      -
Lu 2.60 G/       84          me          cm muC  laiummy                   100.0      -
L 1867/          86          EE.         Po mm1                             59.0      -
Tom) (c1azliz! 6/ & 7/)                                                  1,920.9   923.2      947.1
Of *ft    bg. b eimpad                                                     197.0     4.2
*T     zv cut andirg                                                     1,723.9   919.0
A M solid                                      7.5
Of ehicz l. bee  z3id                          7.5
Toul   Fdd b    I mM                    1.723.9   919.0
1/ 1i aCaU of dte yWje= li1;-l in PAr A is dszibed zin a sepae   sran all BMMI fied paprojt
in erinsa~n, edi is Tywad kite yearly =  ciulad CO the Divu"iw Dimctoran April 30  d Ocd  31.
2/ kchwi  3 cres fw eM=imxg  t  wm   ah..qily rfsud. *ad a U1331                     pia    &*ad e p}5m.
-r die   arw CaiLn M+-   Dm1_r Pnoject.
3/ '2drd Wielw LJO.
!W  Ibt iiludsd in WE  Spwral Artima Caid 20 of II5.0  illicx eqivLwE.
Credit d_iad in SOa. A               sm  in 1US*  dioalAcr atec *E o   mpatam  f, dam M            md M
eq-.val. at Ich    31, 1M  fw dbrnaifbrmW
6/ lbt sigd a of 3/31/85.
ApcU 29, 1965



- 27 -
ANNEX rI
Pag  Z  f 2
EGYPT
D. ST&TENENT OF IFC INVESTlENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal
Year    Obligor                   Type of Business                 Loan      E  'it    Total
(us %iIITon)---
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company      Ceramic Industry                  6.63      1.11      7.74
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry        0.43     0.16       0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company       Agricultural Production,         20.00     3.51      23.51
mainly sugar
791 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing          12.07      2.29     14.36
Company
80, 81  Ismailia Fish             Food and Food Processing          3.45      1.05      4.50
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company       Building Materials               30.00       -       30.00
84    El-Dikheila               Iron and Steel                   95.20     7.20    102.40
81    Luxor Hotel              Crocodile Tourist Project          4.41     0.72      5.13
Total gross commitments                                           172.19    16.04    188.23
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                              85.76      -       85.76
Total commikments now held by IFC                                  86.43    16.04    102.47
Total Undisbursed                                                  99.13     9.60    108.73
(including participants portion)



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Port Said Port Expansion and Rehabilitation Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable ot Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare project: 5 months (September 1984 to
January 1985).
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Port Said Port Authority.
xc) First presentation to the World Bank: July 1983.
Cd) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1984.
Ce) Completion of Negotiations: April 1985.
(f) Planned Effectiveness: November 1985.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. The availability of all land needed for project implementation is a
special condition of effectiveness (para. 50).
2. Signature of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby PSPA
authorizes CTOC to use, operate and maintain the container and
multi-purpose berths, the container cranes and the mobile cargo handling
equipment would be a condition of disbursement for the equipment to be
purchased under the project (para. 53).
3. PSPA will perform key tasks related to project implementation, port
operations and management in accordance with an Action Plan agreed at
negotiations (para. 49).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
4. PSPA would establish a Project Unit staffed to the satisfaction of the
Bank by December 31, 1985 (para. 49).
5. The Government will cause CTOC to provide handling and stacking equipment
to ensure efficient operation of the container terminal (para. 52).
6.  The Government will assist PSPA in solving the problem of land ownership
to recover overdue rents by December 31, 1985 (para. 58).
7.  The Government and PSPA will take the steps necessary to complete the
valuation of PSPA's assets by December 31, 1986 (para. 59).



4'   OI  r f    I A         f A  I       S  E A
9~~~~~~~~~~~- - -K                                                      - '
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                            \ C "# 4
PORT SAID PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                           t,
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM                                                              4 ,
MAIN PORTS
=. 01kv  wit
Canals
a        40    40                                                                      e
2~~~~~~~~~~2
* ~ ~ ~~ E 1                     .          -e  
..:' _---;Sr, 5 rc ?rJ .-                           a3



'.  ' 1: ' '   ' ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ W$62
: ::: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Mdtefna
| jJ l~~~~~~~~~~~~~Se
..  .@  '                 Mediterroneon                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
,A. RE"UWC OF EGYPl -T *'@-
IPORTWSADPORT REHABILITAION PROJECT  ~ :-.|
POR L41 PORORT/
-   ' REd Upd B                                                                          /,./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Abe
.  .  , @- * e UohvN ul  t 'O*os
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~CM D"p                    _r4                 _                              _                         /                                        .                     _
klkm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~. ,pdo






