Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5432-EGT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISIAL
May 2, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and Nort. Africa Regional Office
This documeuat    a resricted disbuxim =W may be mod by recipias only in the pefenme of
their officil due  Its coateoD may not otrwise be disosed withow  World Lmk autorbdtlm.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1  Egyptian Pound (EE )    =        US$1.43
1  US Dollar ($)            =       EE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
1 Egyptian Pound (EE)       =       ust0.80
1 US Dollar (US$)           =       EE 1.25
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter Cm)               =     3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =     0.621 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (ton)        =     0.984 long ton (lg ton)
1 liter (ltr)             =     0.264 US Gallons (G)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA     =    Alexandria Port Authority
CAO     =    Central Accounting Organization
CLUC    =    Canal Loading and Unloading Company
CTOC    =    Port Said Port Container Terminal Operating Company
ER      =    Egyptian Railways
GCSW    =    General Company for Silos and Warehousing
NTS     =    National Transport Study
POMT    =    Public Organization for Maritime Transport
PSPA         Port Said Port Authority
RBA     =    Roads and Bridges Authority
SCA     =    Suez Canal Authority
TPA     =    Transport Planning Authority



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .............................. ............ .      1
A.  Economic Geography and the Transport System  ....        ........   1
B.  Transport Organization, Coordination and Planning  ......           2
C.  Previous Transport Projects           ............................  5
II.  PORTS AND PORT SAID PORT  .............................                  7
A.  Port Traffic and Capacity  ............... .   ..........            7
B.  Port Said Port  ....         ...........................            8
C.  Organization, Management and Staffing  .............     .....     10
D.  Training  ................       ................................  14
E.  Operations  ...              ................................. ........  14
F.  Budget, Tariffs, Accounts, Audit, Insurance  ............          16
III. THE PROJECT           ................. ;..............  18
A.  Background and Master Plan  .........       ....................   18
B.  Project Objectives             ....................................  18
C.  Project Description  .........................           .         18
D.  Engineering Aspects  ....................................          19
E.  Project Cost Estimate  ..................................          20
F.  Project Financing and Disbursement  .....................    22
G.  Project Implementation and Procurement  ...         ..............    23
H.  Impact on Environment and Employment          ...................  23
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ........................................           25
A.  Traffic Projections  ...... ... ..........................         25
B.  Allocation of Total Traffic Among Ports          ................  26
C.  Economic Rate of Return  ................................          28
This project was appraised by Messrs. N. Cengiz Yucel (Senior Transport
Economist), Michel Loir (Financial Analyst), N. Venugopal (Research
Assistant) and Aladin Fateen (Port Engineer, Cons.) on the basis of missions
to Egypt in February and September 1984.
I This document has a resricted ditibution and may be used by repients only in the performance of |
their offiil duties. Its ontents may not otherwis be discsoed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)                - ii -
Page No.
V.    FINANCIAL. EVALUATION  .........................                              32
A.   Introduction  ................... ..........        *.*......  ee.............e...  32
B.   Past Performance and Present Financial Situation  .........    32
C.   Prospects and Finarucial Projections  ............... .. ......    34
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................................................         39
ANNEXES
I.    Organization of PSPA and its Financial and Commercial Dept.    41
II.    Port Performance Indicators  ..............................    43
III.    Details of Project Description          ......................    44
IV.    Details of Project Cost Estimate  .........................    46
V.    Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement   .................    47
VI.    Schedule of Implementation  ..............................    48
VII.    Ports and Port Traffic  ...................................    49
VIII.    Income Statement (Years ending 6/30/82 thru' 1984)   .......    61
IX.    Balance Sheet (Years ending 6/30/82 thru' 1984)   .........    62
X.    Balance Sheet (Projections 1985-1992)  ....................    63
XI.    Income Statement (Projections 1985-1992)  .................    64
XII.    Statement of Sources & Application of Funds  ..............    65
XIII.    Documents Kept in Project File  ...........................    66
XIV.    Action Plan  ...................................... .......... 0.......    68
MAP IBRD   No. 18621 - Arab Republic of Egypt
MAP IBRD   No. 18622R -  Port Said Port



- iii -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Port Said Port Authority - PSPA
Guarantor;              Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:                 US$37 million equivalent
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:   The project will assist t.e Government in the
rehabilitation of the port of Port Said and will
support the objectives of the National Transport Plan.
It will strengthen the Port Said Port Authority and
improve port operations and maintenance. The project
would finance: construction of a berth to handle
general cargo traffic; rehabilitation of existing port
facilities; mobile cargo handling equipment; and two
gantry cranes for handling containers. In addition,
technical assistance would be provided for project
preparation and supervision and for iuz;'ving port
operations and management.
Estimated Costs
USS Million (mid-1985 prices)
Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works                  9.9       16.8       26.7
Handling Equipment           0.1        9.1        9.2
Technical Assistance         1.0        1.3        2.3
Total Base Cost             11.0       27.2       38.2
Physical Contingencies       1.4        3.7        5.1
Price Contingencies          2.2        6.1        8.3
TOTAL COST              14.6      37.0        51.6
These estimates are net of taxes and custom duties.



- iv -
Financing Plan
US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan     -        37.0      37.0
Government   14.6        -       14.6
Total        14.6       37.0     51.6
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements                FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Annual         0.3  4.3   4.8  13.2   7.9   4.8   1.7
Cumulative     0.3  4.6   9.4  22.6  30.5  35.3  37.0
Rate of Return:     22
Project Risks:      No substantial risks are associated with the project.



- 2 -
Table 1.1: Transport Growth Rates in EgyPt
(In Z per annum)
1969-1974     1975-1979    1979-1983
1. Railways
-   Intercity passenger trips       7.3           1.4         8.6
-   Freight movements              -1.4           1.1         4.4
2. Roads
-  Number of passenger cars         7.7          16.0         26.0
-  Number of buses                  8.4          10.0         12.7
-  Number of trucks                 8.6          25.0         23.6
-   Consumption of gasoline         n.a.         13.5         16.5
-   Consumption of diesel  '        n.a.         10.5         13.4
-   Road traffic                    8.0%(Est.)   12.0(Est/)  18.0(Est.)
3. Ports
Total Dry Cargo                     n.a.         22           14
l/ Includes uses other than on roads.
Source: NTS Phase II 1981 and NTS Phase III 1984.
B. Transport Organization, Coordination and Planning
Transport Organization and Coordination
1.05     At the national level, four principal government agencies are
responsible for the transport sector: (i) the Ministry of Transport and
Communications for main and secondary roads, railways and inland waterways;
(ii) the Ministry of Maritime Transport for ports and shipping; (iii) the
Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation for airports and aviation; and (iv) the
Ministry of Petroleum for pipelines. Two other ministries also participate:
the Ministry of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation in infrastructure
investments in the Suez Canal zone, the Sinai and the western desert and in
specific urban development projects: and the Ministry of Industry in
ind"strial and mining projects, for the related transport facilities.
Coordination among all related ministries is achieved through the office of
the Deputy Prime Minister for Services where the major policy decisions are
made. In principle, the existing organizational structure should make it
possible to formulate coordinated investment and policy measures for the
sector. However, the actual functioning system is hampered by the lack of
clearly defined lines of communications to coordinate top-down decisions and
bottom-up policy and investment proposals. The responsibility for the latter
is shared by several government agencies without proper coordination. The
existing structure needs to be reformed and streamlined. The Transport



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Geography and the Transport System
1.01     Egypt has a land mass of about 1 million sq. km.  However, most of
its 43 million population and nearly all economic activity are confined to no
more than 4% of this area, the remainder being desert and wasteland. The main
active parts of the country are the 900 km long valley of the Nile, especially
its Delta, the area adjacent to the Suez Canal, and small areas in both the
eastern and western deserts. Nearly half of the population lives in urban
centers, of which Cairo with about 10 million inhabitants (and accounting for
about half of the nation's industrial output) and Alexandria at the western
corner of the Delta with 2.6 million, are the largest.
1.02     The most important transport corridors in Egypt are Cairo -
Alexandria, Cairo-Ismailia - Port Said and along the Nile. Other corridors
lead to the Suez Canal from densely populated Delta areas, where agricultural
development and its potential are considerable, and where urban development is
giving rise to increasing intercity transport (Map IBRD 18621).    a
1.03     Egypt's diverse transport network is generally adequate in coverage,
with road transport the dominant mode. The war years ending in 1973 left the
transport system in a dilapidated state, both with regard to its physical
assets and the organizations that are responsible for the sector. The main
physical deficiencies have been: (i) in the railways, shortages of
locomotives and rolling stock, (ii) congestion at all ports, (iii) poorly
maintained road network with many road sections experiencing capacity
constraints; and (iv) waterways hich are also in poor condition and operate
with an inadequate fleet. Since 1975, the Government has embarked on a
program to correct some of these deficiencies. The program initially included
funds for the most urgently needed rehabilitation works: railways and ports.
In this endeavor the Bank Group played a part with two railway projects and a
port project. Recently, rehabilitation and modernization of transport
facilities are being carried out within a comprehensive plan which resulted
from a National Transport Study (NTS) financed under the Bank's railway
project. The transport plan has been incorporated in the current Five-Year
Development Plan (para. 1.06).
1.04     Since 1975 demand for transport has increased dramatically:  during
the period 1975 - 1983, total port traffic increased by nearly three-fold; the
number of trucks and buses increased at an average annual rate of about 25X
and 10% respectively. Table 1.1 below shows growth rates for selected
transport indicators. It is expected that in the coming years, although such
quantum increases will not be maintained, transport demand will continue to
grow at an average annual rate of about 8% in response to the anticipated
economic growth and the increase in population. Despite development efforts
since 1975, due to rapid increase in traffic, the principal physical
deficiencies indicated in para. 1.03 persist. Government's current plans for
the sector are described in more detail in paras. 1.06-1.09.



- 3 -
Planning Authority (TPA) within the Ministry of Transport could be a suitable
focal point to improve communications and planning and coordination efforts.
Also, the modal planning units need to be shored up to provide better
bottom-up inputs for the planning process. This issue has been highlighted in
the Bank report "Review of Public Sector Investment Program" and is being
discussed with the Government.
The Transport Plan, 1983 - 1987
1.06     In 1976, the Government initiated a two-phased comprehensive National
Transport Study (NTS), partially financed under the Bank's Second Railway
Project (Loan 1098-EGT).   The first phase was completed in 1977 and the
second phase in March 1981. On the basis of the NTS Phase II, TPA prepared a
Five-Year Transport Plan for 1983-87 which has been incorporated in the
Government's National Development Plan for the same period. The Transport
Plan has recently been updated based on findings of the NTS, Phase III, which
was completed in June 1984 and Phase III findings indicate that traffic,
particularly that of ports has been increasing more rapidly than projected
earlier.
1.07     The current transport plan strategy aims at (a) increasing the
foreign exchange earnings through improving cargo handling operations at
ports, increasing the capacity of the Suez Canal, and providing increased
pipeline capacity; (b) improving the utilization of existing facilities
through better maintenance; and (c) improving the energy efficient and less
costly transport modes, inland waterways and railways, to attract
long-distance bulk cargo movements away from the road network. The Plan's
allocation for the transport sector, including urban-transport, is
proportionally lower than in the past, about 17.6X of the total compared to
28.3% in the 1972/76 and 24.1Z in 1977/82 plan periods. In terms of public
sector investments, the Plan allocates about 22S (EE 4.8 billion in 1982
prices) of the total to the transport sector compared to 291 in the 1977/82
period. The recent resource allocation to the sector, although lower than in
the past when war damage and accumulated rehabilitation needs had to be
addressed, appears to be adequate for the expected growth in demand (para.
1.04).
1.08     The modal allocation of investment funds among land transport modes
heavily favors railways, EE 1.5 billion or 44Z of the total. This is high
compared to the railway's share in total traffic, 61 for freight and 301 for
passengers as well as their absorptive capacity. In contrast. the inland
waterways which carry about the same ton/kms as railways is allocated only EE
100 million. This amount is insufficient to upgrade and modernize the
waterway system to ensure that this mode can play its proper role in the
sector. The amount allocated to the road system, including funds for fleet
renewal programs of public enterprises (EE 775 million), also does not reflect
its dominant role and the extent of rehabilitation works needed. However, the
real constraint in the road sub-sector is also absorptive capacity of the
Roads and Bridges Authority (RBA). During the first half of the Plan period
the completion rate has been about 501 of the annual targets for the road
rehabilitation program. This issue is being addressed under the Bank's Road



- 4 -
Maintenance Project (Loan 2330-EGT). The project includes funds to increase
RBA's maintenance equipment and &paLe parts. In addition, the project aims to
upgrade training capab'lities of RBA to meet the increased needs of the
routine maintenance programs. Resources allocated to the port sub-sector may
need to be expanded if recent growth in traffic trends above the projected
level are maintained (para. 1.06).  UOder the Plan, the first phtse
constructions of ports of El Dikheila, a Bank Project (Loan 2183-EGT) and
Damietta has commenced. In addition, the Plan includes rehabilitation of
ports of Port Said, including the proposed project, and Suez. The Plan
allocates EE 130 million and EE 290 million to pipelines and civ:l aviation
respectively.
1.09     A significant portion of total public sector investment in transport
is earmarked for renewal of fleets and rehabilitation and maintenance of
infrastructure. This is a correct strategy. However, dependence of public
enterprises (which number forty-five) on Government for funds for renewal and
expansion of their equipment places a heavy financial burden on public
finances, mainly because the Plan doe. not adequately address the issue of
transport pricing policies to initiate reforms which would reduce the
dependence of public enterprises on public financing. In addition,
institutional reforms are needed to increase the efficiency of transport
public enterprises, i.e., establishing performance and financial targets and
increasing management accountability. The problem is most acute in the case
of the Egyptian Railways (ER). The public bus, trucking and barge companies
earn adequate revenues to cover operating expenses. However, their net
incomes would be negative if adequate depreciation allowances were provided
and if gasoil prices were not subsidized. Ports, in general, earn adequate
revenues to cover their cost of operations and to generate a satisfactory
return on their assets. The issue of public transport enterprise finances aas
been highlighted in the Bank report "Review of Public Sector Investment
Program" and will be discussed with the Government. In addition, the Bank has
proposed to Government a comprehensive study on the performance of public
enterprises. Within the scope of this work some of the more important
transport public entities will be reviewed in detail and policy
recommendations will be made.
Transpot Constraints
1.10     The main constrainL in the sector is the weakness of the various
transport agencies, especially in planning and operational activities. All
transport authorities are confined by restrictive civil service regulations
and suffer from low salary structures and limited career development
opportunities. In the case of Port Said Port Authority (PSPA), which is a
relatively new entity, these problems are very acute and the authority is
operating under a shortage of qualified staff. Under the proposed project the
Bank and PSPA agreed on a training program to alleviate this situation (see
paras. 2.17-2.18). In addition, the authority is introducing a supplementary
bonus system similar to other agencies to bolster its staffing and technical
and managerial capabili.ies.
1.11     The choice ot transport: mode is free in Egypt.  However, the railways
cannot meet all of the demand for long-distance transport of bulk commodities



-5-
mainly because of operational deficiencies which often result in irregular
scheduling and long delays in deliveries. Public sector bus and trucking
companies are not competitive, because their services are poor and freight is
being diverted to private truckers while intercity taxi services have been
able to cut substantially into the passenger market of public bus service and
of the railways in some cases, even though both bus and railway tariffs are
held low.
1.12     Transport accounts for 30S of domestic petroleum consumption.  In
recent years, the Government has raised the domestic price for premium
gasoline gradually, but at the current level of EE 0.15 per liter is still
below its economic cost (based on February 1983 prices of US$27.5 per barrel
for Egyptian crude). Moreover, gas oil prices at EE 0.03 per litter are well
below economic cost of about EE 0.18 per liter. The implicit economic subsidy
on gas oil is a continuing burden on the economy, in particular for the
mobilization of resources for investment.   The Government intends to reduce
and eventually stabilize the level of the implicit economic subsidy to
transport users, although the price distortions from different subsidies
throughout the economy make the achievement of this goal a difficult task.
1.13     Bank strategy in the sector is to support Government efforts in
developing an efficient and balanced transport system to meet the current and
anticipated needs of the growing economy and population. It aims at: (a)
eliminating the backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation of physical
facilities within the framework of the NTS; (b) moving toward a rational
allocation of traffic among alternative modes through rehabilitation and
modernization of inland waterways and railways; (c) increasing the net foreign
exchange earnings through modernization of port facilities and expansion of
the Suez Canal; (d) addressing policy issues, within the NTS, to enhance the
efficiency of the sector; and (e) improving institutions, both at modal and
sectoral levels, through training, organizational and operational reforms.
C. Previous Transport Projects
1.14     The Bank Group has made one IDA Credit and eight Bank loans to assist
the rehabilitation of transport facilities in Egypt. Loan 243-EGT of 1959
(for US$56.5 million) repaid in 1974, Loan 1064-EGT of 1974 (for US$50
million) and Loan 1482-EGT of 1977 (for US$100 million) successfully supported
the development of the Suez Canal. The canal is a profitable international
transport facility whose development and operations are considered separately
from the rest of the Egyptian transport system. The projects were closed in
September 1982 and December 1983 respectively; a combined Project Completion
Report was issued in June 1984.
1.15     IDA Credit 284-EGT of 1972 (for US$30 million) and Loan 1098-EGT of
1975 (for US$35 million) provided support for ER's 1971-1977 rehabilitation
and modernization program. The first Railway Credit was eventually closed on
June 30, 1980. The second Railway Project which had strong
institution-building objectives and financed the National Transport Study,
suffered a setback when ER's operating and financial conditions deteriorated.
A shortage of qualified staff and tariffs below cost continue to be the main



problems of the ER. The projects were closed in June 1980 and June 1981
respectively; a combined Project Completion Report was issued in March 1983.
1.16     Loan 1239-EGT of 1976 (for US$45.0 million) helped to finance the
rehabilitation of Alexandria port. The project included a comprehensive study
of Alexandria Port Authority's (APA) management, organization and finances.
Execution of the project has been delayed, partly due to delays in contract
award for civil works in what was the Bank's first involvement in Egypt's port
sector. Project design since appraisal has been modified to cater for
containers; construction was completed early in 1984 providing much needed
relief for growing containerized cargo movements. The project also included
studies for bolstering the Port Authority's capabilities in management and
operation. Some of the study recommendations have been implemented improving
management's effectiveness and port productivity.
1.17     Loan 2183-ECT of 1982 (for US$132.0 million) is designed to assist
construction of a new port at El Dikheila (10 km west of the port of
Alexandria). The project became effective in September 1983, and includes
much needed facilities for containerized cargo and a jetty for the reinforcing
bar mill which is under construction at El Dikheila. The project also
provides for the continued modfrnization of Alexandria Port and its
integration with El Dikheila Port and is expected to be completed by 1986.
The project will also enable the Bank to continue its efforts in institution
building and strengthening the transport agencies' planning capabilities.
rnitial delays in project implementation, largely due to the late signing of
subsidiary agreements, have now been satisfactorily overcome. Project
execution is underway and no further major difficulties are foreseen.
1.18     Loan 2176-EGT of 1982 (for US$59.0 million). the greater Cairo Urban
Development Project, aims at initiating a new approach to urban transport in
greater Cairo based on low cost traffic engineering and management measures,
at improving thle efficiency of the public transport system and at
strengthening institurional capabilities for urban planning, management and
service delivery in the greater Cairo area. The loan became effective on
February 16, L983 and the start of implementation is satisfactory.  Already a
substantial portion of detailed designs have been completed, some of the key
advisors have been appointed and procurement of some items has been
iimitiLited. The project is expected for completion in 1987.
1.19     Loan 2330-ECT (for US$24.0 million) is to support the Government's
efforts to improve the road sub-sector by emphasizing maintenance of the
existing road network. The project includes ai two-vear road maintenance
program, upgrading the RBA's training facilities and improvement of traffic
safety and controls. The project also includes technical assistance to
strengthen RBA's institutional capability through improved planning and staff
training. The loan became effective on April 10. 1984 and project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



-7-
II. PORTS AND PORT SAID PORT
A. Port Traffic and Capacitv
2.01     Egypt, at present, is mainly served by the Port of Alexandria and
Port Said on the Mediterranean Coast. The ports of Suez and Safaga on the Red
Sea Coast are relatively small, handling primarily specialized cargo and
nominal amounts of other traffic. Alexandria is by far the largest port
handling about 75Z of the country's maritime traffic. Moreover, Alexandria
and Port Said are the only ports providing diverse services in facilitating
Egypt's foreign trade.
2.02     With the rapid growth in the economy, total tonnage handled
(excluding petroleum products) in all ports increased nearly three times
between 1975 and 1983 9.7 m ton in 1975, compared to 28.7 m ton in 1983.  The
Table below summarizes the growth in port traffic and Table 1 in Annex VII
gives detailed port traffic for 1975 - 1983 period.
Table 2.1: Total Port Traffic for 1975-1982
(1,000 tons)
Year       Import      Export       Total
1975        8,250       1,480        9,730
1978       14,600       1,340       15,940
1979       16,340        1,220      17,560
1980       19,530       1,600       21,130
1981       23,640       1,530       25,060
1982       23,470       1,700       25,170
1983       26,870        1,800      28,670
2.03     Parallel to trends in world shipping, Egypt's container traffic has
also rapidly increased during recent years: 156,740 TEUs1' in 1983 compared
to 124,360 in 1981. The current containerization penetration rate is about
252 for exports and 35Z for imports. The ports of Alexandria and Port Said
are the primary facilities for containerized cargo; Port of Suez, the only
other port which currently handles containers, account for only 1.5% of the
total. In terms of tonnage, the total volume of containerized cargo amounted
to about 1.2 m ton in 1983. Table 2.2 below shows the recent growth in
container traffic by ports.
I/ Twenty-foot equivalent units.



-8-
Table 2.2: Container Traffic
(in TEU)
1981                 1982    -       -     1983-
Import    Export     Import    Export      Import    Export
Alexandria    50,295    34,903      51,517    35,963      67,624    45,018
Port Said     19,116    1S,05l      18,051    18,309      22,372    19,124
Suez           1,000      1,000      1.100                 1,300     1.300
Total      70,411    53,954      70,668    55,372      91,296    65,442
2.04     The rapid growth in traffic has created serious congestion at all
ports of the country. Particularly, Port of Alexandria and Port Said have
been forced to operate well beyond their capacities. The problem is most
acute at Port Said, where traffic increased from 2.8 m ton in 1978 to 5.2 m
ton in 1983 (excluding petroleum). As a result, increasing volumes of
traffic, including about 75X of general cargo, are being lightered: 1.3 m ton
in 1982; 1.6 m ton in 1983; and 0.8 m ton during the first half of 1984 (for
details see Tables 2 and 3, Annex VII). Currently, berths available for barge
operations are saturated and the barge basin is fully congested with four five
rows of barges waiting to be unloaded. Manoeuvering and at times, unloading
of barges are carried out manually. This is a time consuming and costly
operation, as evidenced by ship service-times for general cargo averaging
about five days, which is excessive. Ship turn-around times, in some cases,
are as much as 27 days.
Port Development Plan
2.05     The long-term solution to the port capacity problem has been
formulated in the National Port Plan within the framework of the National
Transport Study, Phase II completed in 1982. Recent'y, the study was updated
(Phase III) and the findings indicate that the growth in traffic is ahead of
earlier projections a-. that the proposed long-term port capacity expansion
would be fully utilized earlier than anticipated previously. Under the Plan,
the first phase development of El Dikheila Port, a Bank financed project (Loan
2183-EGT), has commenced. The project includes primarily a mineral jetty, two
commercial quays (for container, general cargo and timber traffic) and other
facilities and equipment. In addition, under the Plan construction of the
first phase of Port of Damietta has started. When completed in early 1986, it
will provide capacity for about 6.0 m ton primarily for grains, timber,
general cargo and containers. The Plan also includes rehabilitation of Por.
Said and Port of Suez. Details of the National Port Plan are given in
Annex VII.
B. Port Said Port
Port Facilities
2.06     Port Said port (Map IBRD 18622) was established in 1859 when the Suez



-9-
Canal was constructed. Located at the northern entrance to the canal, it
enjoys a unique position in world shipping movements. Vessels bound for
Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East pass the port every day. As the Suez
Canal grew in importance, Port Said City and its port continued to prosper
until the Canal was closed in 1967; the city started to decline and was
evacuated in 1969. Port activities came to a complete stop until the Canal
was reopened in 1975. The establishment of Free City status in 1976 and the
two successive stages of widening and deepening the Canal, including
construction of the Suez Canal Eastern by-pass 1/, and congestion at the Port
of Alexandria resulted in an economic boom in the city and rapid increase in
port traffic.
2.07     Existing port facilities are old and inadequate to meet the current
level of traffic, which is increasing rapidly. Much of port traffic is being
handled by barges commuting between ships moored on buoys located on the
eastern bank of the Canal and shallow draft berths at Port Said port on the
western bank. The only two deep water berths available (Sherif and Abbas)
were constructed about 20 years ago. Sherif basin has a 520 m berth, 7.5 m
deep, for supply goods, mainly maize, flour and sugar; Abbas basin has a 660 m
berth 8.0 m deep for grain and cement in bulk. In addition, port facilities
include a 1,125 m berth 3.0 m deep for oil tankers mooring on buoys in front
of the berth; and a 300 m berth 3.0 m deep at Sherif and Arsenal basins for
barge operations. The existing capacity is far short of the needs of the
current level of traffic which reached 5.2 million tons in 1983-'; about 1.6
million ton had to be lightered. Under the ongoing rehabilitation program
construction of a 345 m container terminal has recently commenced; it is
scheduled for completion in late 1987.
2.08     Cargo handling equipment, owned and operated by the Canal Loading and
Unloading Company (CLUC), includes 250 barges of 100 to 500 t capacity, 15 tug
boats for towing barges, three mobile cranes 50 to 60 t capacity for handling
heavy lifts, 19 cranes 10 t capacity (in addition to 13 being negotiated), one
crane 28 t capacity and five forklift trucks 28 to 42 t capacity for handling
containers, and 46 forklift trucks of two to five ton capacity. The above
equipment is maintained adequately. In addiLion, there are 42 tractors and 85
trailers, mostly in moderate condition. The above equipment is adequate to
meet actual and forecast traffic, except for the container berth under
construction and the proposed multi-purpose berth under the proposed project.
2.09     PSPA is responsible for maintaining port facilities.  However, since
it is a newly created authority (see para. 2.10), its engineering department
is not adequately staffed to ensure proper maintenance and to supervise work
carried out by contractors. Based on agreement reached during negotiations,
V/ The by-pass is a new exit to the Canal; it by-passes Port Said and joins
the Canal 17 km south of Port Said. It was completed in 1980 and is being
used for north-bound convoys. South bound convoys use Port Said entrance.
2/ Excluding petroleum.



- 10 -
PSPA will: (a) increase the number of its engineers to five civil engineers,
two mechanical engineers and two electrical engineers before December 31,
1985; (b) prepare for Bank review a report on needed maintenance works by
December 31, 1985 and complete such works by December 31, 1986; and (c) submit
for Bank review at the end of each calendar year a report on maintenance works
carried out during the year and their costs, as well as works scheduled for
the next calendar year.
C. Organization, Management and Staffing
General Organization
2.10     The Suez Canal Authority (SCA) had been responsible for port
operations, maintenance and development until 1980, when Law No. 88
established the Port Said -art Authority (PSPA). It is a government entity
under the Ministry of Maritime Transport with overall responsibility to
develop, manage and maintain the facilities. Although PSPA is not directly
involved in operations which are performed by other public enterprises, it has
jurisdiction to supervise them with the exception of the operations of the SCA
which is still responsible for control of ship movements, pilotage, towage and
mooring services. The rationale for this arrangement is to ensure that
convoys transiting the Suez Canal are not adversely affected by port
operations. Coordination between PSPA and SCA is good.
2.11     Most cargo handling is carried out by the Canal Loading and Unloading
Company (CLUC), a government owned enterprise, and integrated as per Law 97 of
1983 in the Public Organization for Maritime Transport (POMT), which has
recently been created as a holding company under the Ministry of Maritime
Transport_/. Two private enterprises licensed by the PSPA unload and bag
imports of bulk cement and wheat. A new company, the Port Said Port Container
Terminal Operating Company (CTOC), was recently created under POMT to operate
the container terminal (para. 2.07) as well as the multi-purpose berth
provided under the project. Previously, the responsibility for container
traffic was split between CLUC (stevedoring) and four private enterprises
(storage). CLUC and these four enterprises combined will each have a 30%
participation in the new company's equity; PSPA will contribute the remaining
40%. A close working relationship exits between PSPA and CLUC to handle, in a
coordinated manner, the day-to-day operation of the port as well as to plan
future activities.
2.12     Storage is carried out by the General Company for Silos and
Warehousing (GCSW), a public enterprise based in Cairo and active in all major
Egyptian ports. GCSW enjoys a de facto monopoly in storage other than for
sugar and supply commodities which are delivered directly to their final
destinations. GCSW rents most of its warehouse facilities from PSPA, but also
owns a few, including a recently constructed two-storey warehouse. Several
public companies provide storage for refrigerated cargo. Coordination between
CLUC and the storage companies is adequate.
I/ Under Law 97 (1983) PONT has the responsibility for creating, supervising
and coordinating all public enterprise companies working in the maritime
sector.



- 11 -
2.13     Port Said is a free port within a free trade zone; however, the
movement of traffic to and from the port is still subject to customs control.
The system is fairly flexible though partly responsible for the slow
turnaround of general cargo in the port, i.e., about 25 days. PSPA is
formulating a proposal to streamline custom procedures for container traffic,
whereby it will be possible to carry out the inspection at destination. A
committee will review the proposal and a decision is expected before
completion of the container terminal. The Custom Authority also collects
storage dues on behalf of the PSPA, retaining lOS as their commission. A new
system will be developed, under the project, to enable PSPA to collect storage
dues directly, which will not only increase the port authority's revenues, but
also provide important information on storage patterns. Under an Action Plan
agreed during negotiations PSPA will initiate studies to: (a) streamline
custom procedures and (b) institute a new system for collection of storage
dues.



- 12 -
Management Structure and Staffing
2.14     PSPA's organization chart is shown in Annex I(a) and (b) and
summarized below:
Port Said Port Authority (PSPA)
Organization Chart
(Current Staffing shown within brackets)
Ministry of Maritime Transport                 Governorate of Port Said
-          _  I1__                         I
Board of Directors
Chairman
* Security, Safety (45)                       . Secretariat (14)
-  Inspection (12)                            . Organization, Management (16)
, Public relation (13)    .                   . Legal affairs (12)
. Liaison with users (7)                      . Planning, research (14)
General Manager
Administration       Financial        Area           Engineering      Traffic
Personnel         Commercial      Commander          Sector         Sector
(39)              Affairs                            (192)          (113)
(80)                           .



- 13 -
2.15     PSPA organization, sanctioned by Decision No. 99 of 1982 issued by
the Central Agency for Organization and Administration, is gradually being
developed; many positions are still vacant. Total staff currently employed is
560, of which 429 are regular. PSPA, under the control of the central Agency
for Organization and Administration is making efforts to increase its staff to
a level adequate to run the port effectively. The basic organizational
structure of PSPA is very similar to that of the Port ef Alexandria; it is
sound and well adapted to the needs of efficient port administration. The
technical assistance component of the proposed project will help strengthen
those departments which are not yet fully developed, especially the finance
and traffic control sections. In addition, the project includes provisions
for extensive training to bolster technical capabilities of PSPA in all areas
(para. 3.05(e)). At present, administrative efficiency of the port authority
is hampered by lack of adequate office space in one location, but a new office
building is due for completion in June 1985.
2.16     PSPA's Board of Directors includes 22 members.  Its Chairman is
appointed by the Prime Minister. The other 21 members represent: (i) the
Central Government including Customs Department (7), (ii) the Local Government
(3), (iii) port operators and users (7), (iv) experts in port matters (3), and
the SCA (1). The Board meets at least once a month; its decisions are subject
to approval by the Minister of Maritime Transport. Decisions become effective
15 days after their communication to the Minister if no objection is raised.
PSPA enjoys a reasonable degree of autonomy, especially in implementing its
approved budget. PSPA's budget is included in the budget of the Government
and its salaries are dictated by the public service salary structure. The
overall organization of the port is good and PSPA's legal status is
satisfactory; it provides adequate latitude for the authority to efficiently
manage and operate the port.  Port of Alexandria, the country's main port,
operates satisfactorily under the same legal arrangements which were endorsed
by the Bank under two previous loans for the ports of Alexandria and El
Dikheila.
2.17     The traffic sector is subdivided into two branches: the ship traffic
and the cargo traffic sections. The former mainly liaises with the SCA and
the shipping agents to plan daily ship movements and allocate berthing
places. It also keeps statistics on ships, enquires on maritime accidents and
deals with safety matters regarding the movement of ships and barges at the
port. The latter is responsible for licensing and supervising port
operators. It coordinates the stevedoring and the warehousing activities and
holds daily meetings with their representatives to allocate incoming cargo to
the storage areas. It also enforces port regulations, monitors productivity
in cargo handling, and keeps statistics on goods received at the port. The
traffic department, at present, lacks adequate staffing and needs
strengthening. Under an Action Plan agreed during negotiations PSPA will
utilize the technical assistance component of the project to finance: (a) a
training program to bolster its traffic department, and (b) consultancy
services to improve port statistics and performance indicators.
2.18     The financial and commercial department operates without adequate
staffing and expertise; only four of the seven divisions are currently in



- 14 -
existence. The inventory division also suffers from lack of staff. In
particular, there is a need to develop expertise in the following areas: (i)
budgetary control; (ii) cost accounting; (iii) internal auditing; (iv)
management of cash and collection of revenues; and (v) management of stores.
Under an Action Plan agreed during negotiations PSPA will utilize the
technical assistance component of the proposed project to set up the missing
divisions and sections, to determine their functions and responsibilities, and
to recruit and train staff.
D. Training
2.19     PSPA carries out extensive training programs, either with in-house
facilities or using specialized centers in Egypt, most of which are located in
Alexandria. In FY 1982-83, 285 PSPA staff received training and 315 in FY
1983-84. The ratio of in-house to outside training is 37/63 for the two years
on the average. These efforts helped the authority to expand its initial
small nucleus of staff, formed by personnel previously employed in the Port
Affairs Office of the Governorate.   There is, however, still a need for
further training especially in specialized areas such as management and
operations, as provided under the proposed project.
E. Operations
2.20     Port operations are carried out under difficult conditions.
Extensive use of lighterage results in the movement of large number of barges
between ships, all moored on the eastern side of the Canal, and the berths;
these movements are partially interrupted twice a day during the passage of
convoys. The deep-water berthing facilities are inadequate; no more than 5 to
7 ships, depeading on their size, can be accommodated simultaneously. Most
port facilities need rehabilitation, the paving has deteriorated on the quay
apron and in storage areas. Sheds and warehouses also require extensive
repairs (para. 2.09). Severe congestion prevails in all parts of the port,
especially at lighter berths, where aprons are clogged with stored goods and
berths are often unavailable for unloading . All this is affecting
productivity, which is very low at less than 200 tons per ship/day for
conventional general cargo. The proposed project is designed to alleviate
this situation.
2.21     Normal working hours from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. can be extended
until 12:00 p.m.   For frozen goods, operations are conducted at night only.
The dock labor force employed by CLUC is permanent and includes about 2,000
men. All services to ships, towage, pilotage and mooring are executed by the
SCA in coordination with the traffic department of PSPA. This arrangement is
satisfactory. Although cargo-handling equipment is well adapted in number and
quality to port operation needs, at times unloading of the barges is carried
out by hand due to severe congestion.
2.22     Inland transport linkage of the port is adequate mainly via the road
network from Port Said to Ismailia, Cairo and to the Delta. The rail
connection to the port area was discontinued after destruction of the
Al-Raswah bridge near the city boundary, but a new bridge is under



- 15 -
construction; it is scheduled for completion by mid-1985. The availability of
rail facilities will greatly improve cargo movement. The port is also served
by inland waterway, to Ismailia. These inland transport facilities will be
sufficient to meet the future needs of port traffic (para. 4.06).
2.23     Port operations are divided into five independent subsystems:
(a) A private company handles cement imported in bulk through a converted
shin permanently anchored at Abbas Basin. Cement is transferred by
conveyors to a silo where it is bagged automatically. Average
productivity per day of service time is currently about 3,300 tons,
10Z higher than in 1983 but is still relatively low.
(b) Wheat in bulk is unloaded under a similar system operated by a
subcontractor of CLUC. The average productivity over the first six
months of 1984 reached the targeted rate of 4,000 tons per day of
ship's operation at berth.
(c) Currently, works are underway to construct a maize unloading and
bagging system similar to the one used for wheat. The system
consists of a 30,000 ton capacity warehouse and silos and an
automatic bagging plant. Construction is we.l advanced and the
converted ship is already at berth.
(d) The remaining dry cargo is received at quays, directly from ships or
through lighterage. All supply commodities in bags are 1loaded on
trucks for direct delivery, but lack of readily available trucks
frequently hampers unloading. Other goods are transferred by small
trailers to the storage areas. The deteriorated paving does not
allow extensive use of forklift trucks, and handling rates are low:
on the average of about 20 tons per gang hour for bagged cargo, and
10 tons for other conventional cargoes. The efficiency of barge
operations is affected by the slow rotation of barges because of the
shortage of space at the lighter berths. Container handling
operations, either at berth or by lighterage are quite inefficient.
The ongoing construction of a specialized terminal will remedy this
problem. The new container terminal will be operated by CTOC (para.
2.11). In addition to being responsible for all container handling
operations on the container berth and in its stacking area, the
company will be responsible for the provision and maintenance of the
needed mobile container handling equipment (see para. 3.09). Annex
II gives details of the main productivity indicators.
(e) petroleum traffic, essentially for bunkering, is accommodated at
specialized facilities operated by several public and private oil
companies.
2.24     Overall port productivity is expected to increase as a result of
improving and monitoring PSPA's maintenance ability under the proposed project
(para. 2.09). Elimination of a portion of lighterage and further



- 16 -
mechanization will be instrumental in reducing costs of cargo handling
operations. Additional gains in productivity are also possible through
strengthening PSPA's capabilities in port operations and management.
Technical assistance provided under the project is designed to achieve this
objective, through studies and training, with a view to, (i) improve
coordination of all entities operating in the port; (ii) define and enforce
performance standards; (iii) update and develop port regulations in parallel
with the ongoing modernization of port facilities; and (iv) monitor closely
storage activities to accelerate turnaround of goods in the customs area and
minimize the storage area occupied by damaged or discarded cargo, in
accordance with time schedules incorporated in an Action Plan agreed during
negotiations.
F. Budget. Tariffs, Accounts, Audit, Insurance
Budget
2.25     Governmental approval of PSPA's budget follows standard procedures
for all publicly owned enterprises. After approval by the Board and the
Minister of Maritime Transport, the draft budget is submitted to the Ministry
of Finance for approval of recurrent expenditures and to the Ministry of
Planning for approval of investments. The final budget has to be ratified by
the People's Assembly as part of the overall government budget. All
investments must be included in the Five-Year plan. A separate ratification
by the Assembly is needed for foreign loans.
2.26     More flexibility exists in budget execution than in its preparation.
PSPA's Chairman has the authority to reallocate funds between categories
within a chapter, however, transfers between chapters require approval by the
Ministry of Finance and the People's Assembly. Financing of the investments
is secured through the Investment Bank. The budget for capital expenses is
submitted to that Bank at the beginning of each year and funds are disbursed
according to quarterly applications sent by PSPA.
Tariffs
2.27     Port and mooring dues are couon to all Egyptian ports and
established by law. Although storage charges apply only to Port Said, they
are still subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Similarly, all
charges on floating crafts, barges and cranes are established by the Ministry
of Maritime Transport. Other tariffs are set by PSPA's Board of Directors, in
particular, land leases granted on an annual basis are regularly updated by a
special comiittee within the PSPA. The existing system is not fully
satisfactory; although it provides adequate latitude for PSPA to raise charges
to cover its total costs, PSPA lacks an adequate cost accounting system at
present, to maintain a cost-based tariff structure for port charges specific
to Port Said. Under the technical assistance component of the proposed
project studies will be initiated to set up a cost accounting system and to
formulate a revised pricing scheme (see para. 5.19). Agreement has been
reached with PSPA during negotiations that it will undertake studies required



- 17 -
to implement a cost related tariff system for the port of Port Said in
accordance with the time schedule incorporated in the Action Plan.
Accounts
2.28    Accounting is based on the Egyptian Uniform Accounting System.  The
accounting division has a staff of 35, of which 15 are qualified accountants.
Accounts are kept by hand; they are timely and orderly. Transactions are
successively recorded in various books of prime entry specialized according to
their general nature and in intermediary books corresponding to the budget
classifications. Altogether, the system is satisfactory and maintains good
accountability. Annual financial statements consist of a balance sheet, a
statement of income and a statement of sources and uses of funds, plus
additional tables detailing some accounts. Because the financial and
comercial departments are not yet fully developed, financial reporting
including analysis of actual data for internal management purpose is not yet
effective. This shortcoming will be addressed by the technical assistance
proposed under the project.
Auditing
2.29    As other Egyptian port authorities, the PSPA's accounts are audited
by the Central Accounting Organization (CAO), an independent government agency
created in 1942 for verification of government accounts. The 1962
nationalization extended CAO's role to commercial and industrial
undertakings. There are two departments, one to monitor the engineering
aspects of execution of planned investments, the other to audit the financial
statements of the public sector entities. Within the latter, there is a
specialized branch based in Alexandria dealing with the maritime sector. CAO
is well organized and its staff competent. Audit is performed by a team led
by a senior auditor, a position requiring at least 12-year experience. The
auditing process includes on the spot investigations, a mid-year review, and a
verification of the final statements to be submitted by the public entities
not later than October 1 of each year. Within a statutory two-month period,
conclusions of the audit are communicated to entities concerned which have
normally one month to carry out the corrections recommended by CAO. The final
audited financial statements are sent to the Ministry of Finance. An        t
agreement has been reached during negotiations with PSPA that a copy of the
audit report and the management letter issued by CAO be sent to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Insurance
2.30     PSPA's assets are not insured as is the case with all
government-owned assets. The practice is that the Government will compensate
PSPA for any damage incurred, which is acceptable.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Backsround and Master Plan
3.01     The proposed project is based on several port development studies
carried out recently by internationally recognized consulting firms as well as
by local authorities (see Annex XIII for Documents kept in Project File).
3.02     The Higher Board For Egyptian Ports, headed by the Prime Minister,
decided in late 1983 to adopt the master plan for Port Said Port recommended
by PSPA's consultants in 1982. The plan will be implemented in stages, with
the first phase already underway, involving construction of a 345 m container
berth (paras. 2.21 and 3.07). The proposed project would constitute the
second phase of the master plan involving mainly the construction of a 250 m
multi-purpose berth, adjacent to the container terminal being built under
phase one. The limited size of the proposed project appropriately reflects
budgetary constraints. Government intends to continue further port
development during the next plan period.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.03     The proposed project will be instrumental in assisting the Government
to develop a sound port administrative structure. As PSPA has a short
history, Bank participation in the rehabilitation of Port Said port offers an
opportunity to put the port administration on sound basis and maintains a
constructive Bank presence in the national transport development plan. The
main objectives are summarized as follows:
(a)    to reduce excessive utilization of barges commuting between general
cargo ships mooring on buoys located near the eastern bank of the
Suez Canal and the shallow draft berths at Port Said port on the
western bank, by providing an additional multi-purpose deep water
berth. Such existing barge operations are expensive, time consuming,
inefficient and hinder navigation in the Canal.
(b)    to increase port productivity by rehabi.itating existing port
facilities;
(c)    to improve the efficiency of port operations by providing modern
cargo handling equipment; and
(c)    to strengthen PSPA's management including budgetary control,
planning, cost accounting, and internal audit through technical
assistance and staff training.
3.04     The project components have been prepared on the basis of detailed
analysis of existing facilities and operations and the immediate future
requirements. The new facilities and equipment will be suitable for modern
port operations and cargo handling techniques. Also the proposed training
program will help increase cargo handling productivity, reduce ship-waiting



- 19 -
times and damage to cargo, and improve PSPAs maintenance capabilities.
C. Proiect Descriptton
3.05     The proposed project (Map IBRD 18622) includes:
(a) construction of a multi-purpose berth 250 m long and 12 m deep
including dredging, transit shed and support facilities mainly to
handle general cargo traffic;
(b) rehabilitation of existing port facilities including quay fenders,
electrical system and cathodic protection;
(c) provision of mobile cargo handling equipment to handle general cargo
traffic on the above mentioned berth;
(d) provision of two gantry cranes 35 t capacity tor handling containers;
and
(e) technical assistance to PSPA for: (i) preparation of the project.
under PPF advance (ii) supervision of civil works and equipment
purchase; and (iii) improvement of port operation and financial
management (including budgetary control, internal audit, cost
accounting and pricing) through consultancy services and training.
Details are in Annex III.
D. Engineering Aspects
3.06     Port Said port is protected from the predominant westerly and north
westerly winds. Tidal range barely exceeds 30 cm thus causing a weak current
of not more than 0.5 knot. Soil condition is known to be weak; it is mainly
of layers of medium to stiff silt deposits. Sand strata are located at about
40 m below sea level necessitating the use of piles about 50 m long.
Elaborate soil investigation has been carried out and preliminary engineering
has been prepared. The berth design takes into consideration, among other
factors, the effect of ships passagir.g through the canal on vessels using the
proposed berth. Rock suitable for buildings and side slope protection has to
be brought by barges from Suez, about 160 km distance.
3.07     The proposed multi-purpose berth will be a continuation of the
container berth now under construction and is on the same alignment (para.
3.02). It will have a depth of 12 ml', with the possibility of dredging to
14 m in future when needed. Container crane rails will be extended from the
container berth to the proposed berth so that the two cranes provided under
the project can be used by both berths. The estimated capacity per crane is
I/ Depth of water as given in this report is with reference to MLW. Tide
range is about 0.3 m.



- 20 -
47,000 containers per year. Given the traffic projections, configuration of
vessels bringing containers, and the composition of container sizes by 1990,
70,000 container moves will be needed. This number is expected to increase to
about 100,000 by 1995. Therefore the two cranes provided under the project
will be adequate during the initial stages of the project.
3.08     Rehabilitation of existing port facilities is urgently needed.
Fenders in front of the steel sheet piling deep water berths, as vell as their
cathodic protection, have been destroyed and need to be replaced to avoid
eminent collapse. The electrical system has to be improved to allow for a
adequate port operations during the night. PSPA contracted a local contractor
to rehabilitate the paved and open storage areas. The Bank will follow up the
maintenance of port facilities to ensure its adequacy (para. 2.09).
3.09     Equipment needed for handling and stacking containers on the
container berth will be provided by the newly created Container Terminal
Operating Company (CTOC), (paras. 2.21). The equipment is expected to include
mainly straddle carriers, forklifts, tractors and trailers. Under the
Guarantee Agreement, the Government will cause CTOC to acquire before June 30,
1987 container handling equipment in adequate numbers and capacities that
would ensure efficient operations on the container terminal. Mobile cargo
handling equipment needed to operate the proposed multi-purpose berth will be
provided under the project (para. 3.14 and Annex III). The number and
capacity of this equipment have been assessed taking into consideration the
tonnage and type of cargo expected to be handled on the proposed berth (Table
3, Annex VII). The proposed list of equipment has been agreed upon with PSPA.
3.10     The land needed for the proposed project is still occupied by two oil
distributing companies providing bunkering to ships ...d petroleum products to
local markets. The land is leased from PSPA. According to the Lease
Agreement, PSPA is required to give one year norice to the lessees to vacate
the land. PSPA already notified the two companies to v&cate the land before
July 1, 1985. A decision has been taken to move all oil distributing
companies from the western to the eastern bank of the Suez Canal. However,
the land needed for each of them has not yet been allocated by the SCA. One
of the two companies has already removed some oil tanks and other facilities
in 1983 to allow the construction of the container berth to proceed. Complete
evacuation and availability of the land needed for the project is a condition
of loan effectiveness.
E. Project Cost Estimate
3.11     The total cost of the project is estimated at USS 51.6 million
equivalent. of which USt 37.0 million (71.7x) is in foreign currency. Summary
of the cost estimate is given below and details are given in Annex IV.



- 21 -
I of
-     m million -       US mil. Equiv.    Total
Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Cost
A. Civil Works                 12.375  21.000  33.375    9.90  16.80  26.70   69
B. Equipment                   '0.125  11.375  11.500    0.10   9.10   9.20   24
C. Technical Assistance /a    1.250   1.625   2.875    1.00   1.30   2.30    7
Total Base Cost/b          13.750  34.000  47.750   11.00  27.20  38.20  100
D. Physi. Contingencies/C       1.750   4.625   6.375    1.40   3.70   5.10   13
E. Price Contingencies/d        5.875  14.750  20.625    2.20   6.10   8.30   22
Total Project Cost        !f 3M   3.375  74.750   14.60  37.00  51.60  135
/a  Including project preparation (US$0.5 million) provided
by an advance from the PPF.
/b  At mid-1985 prices and based on a rate of exchange of US$1 - E11.25.
7c 15X on civil works and 10 on equipment and technical assistance.
7T  Price contingencies, when base cost is expressed in US$ equivalent, have
been estimated assuming annual price increases of 51 for 1985, 7.51 for
1986 and 8Z for 1987 to 1990; and when expressed in EE, 161 for 1985,
141 for 1986 and 121 for 1987 to 1990.
3.12     Cost estimate for civil works and equipment are based on
international prices for similar works and equipment and recently executed
port projects in Egypt updated to June 1985, in particular the container berth
now under construction in Port Said port. Imported materials and equipment
for the project are exempt from customs duties; this has been confirmed during
negotiations. Estimates for technical assistance are based on an average of
US$8,000 per man month, of which 40 to 501 is in local currency depending on
expected participation of local consulting firms as well as local salaries and
subsistence. Cost estimate for project preparation is based on actual
contract signed with the engineering consulting firm. Supervision is
estimated to require 100 man month for the whole period of project
implementation. The port operation specialist is needed for 18 months,
financial management and port tariff study would require about 80 man month,
and training abroad is estimated to cost about US$200,000 equivalent (40 man
month). Physical continge=cies of 151 on civil works is considered
appropriate coverage for the assessed risks mainly because tender documents
are is not yet available, together with 1OZ on equipment and technical
assistance. Annual price contingencies have been provided for all project
items as follows for costs estimated in EL and in US$, reflecting trends from
documented sources:
Calendar year       1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Egyptian Pound      16Z      141      121     121      12Z     12Z
US Dollar            5Z     7.5Z       8Z      8Z       8X      81



- 22 -
F. Prooect Financing anc Disbursement
3.13     The proposed project is inclu.ed in tAe current Five-Year Development
Plan (1983-1987) which allocates EE 45 million to both the ongoing container
berth and the proposed multi-purpose bertb. The proposed Bank loan of US$37
million will be made to PSPA to cover the foreign exchange cost, while PSPA
will secare all local funds mainly through loans from Egypt's Investment
Bank. Because implementation of the proposed projeot will extend beyond the
current Development Plan period, PSPA undertook to ask the Ministry of
Planning to allocate adequate local funds in the next Plan period (1987-92) to
allow for completion of the works. Assurance has been obtained from the
Government during negotiations that it will cause to provide all local funds
iLecessary to complete the proposed project on schedule.
3.14     The two container cranes provided under the project will be
transferred to the Container Terminal Operating Company (CTOC) as PSPA's
contribution in the company's equity capital (para. 2.11). The mobile cargo
handling equipment provided under the project will be either leased to CTOC or
transferred to it as an additional contribution by PSPA in CTOC's equity
capital. Agreement has been reached -aith PSPA during negotiations that it
will enter into an agreement with CTOC acceptable to the Bank that would
ensure that CTOC will: (a) operate and maintain the container cranes and the
mobile cargo handling equipment efficiently and provide adequate insurance and
renewals thereof; (b) not transfer or dispose of the cranes and equipment
without the approval of the Bank and PSPA; and (c) earn appropriate rate of
return on its invested capital. Signing of the above agreement will be a
condition of disbursement of loan proceeds for the cranes and equipment.
3.15     Disbursement from the loan (US$37 million equivalent) wlll be on the
following basis:
(a) 62% of total expenditures on berth construction including dredging,
transit shed and support facilities (US$20.3 million equivalent);
(b)  72% of total expenditures on rehabilitation works (US$ 2.8 million
equivalent);
(c)  100% of the foreign exchange costs for the two container cranes and
mobile cargo handling equipment (US$12.0 million equivalent); and
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance and staff
training (US$1.9 million equivalent).
3.16     Estimated schedule of loan disbursement is given in Annex V; it
differs slightly from the profile for the EMENA Region's past port projects,
mainly be^ause an advance payment of 20% of civil works' cost will be paid to
the conttactor upon contract signature. In addition, the project is simple
and no unusual problems are expected, especially since a similar berth is
being constructed in the same vicinity. The six-year period for loan
disbursement compares reasonably with the Bank experience in the EMENA Region
where 95% of the amount of previous loans or credits for port projects was
disbursed in six years on average.



_ 23 -
G. Project Implementation and Procurement
3.17     The project is being prepared by qualified consultants accepted by
the Bank under agreed terms of reference. Soil investigation at the site of
the proposed multi-purpose berth as well as final engineering thereof have
been satisfactorily completed. Consultants' work is financed by an advance of
US$500,000 from the Project Preparation Facility.
3.18     It is expected that all civil works related to the multi-purpose
berth be awarded to the same contractor. PSPA will be responsible for project
implementation and has agreed that: (a) all contracts under the project will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Guidelines; (b) all civil works construction and equipment purchase
will be supervised by independent consultants acceptable to the Bank under
agreed terms of reference; and (c) all consultants and experts for technical
assistance will be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines under agreed
terms of reference. The above mentioned agreements have been confirmed during
negotiations. Agreements have been reached with PSPA during negotiations that
it will: (a) assign by September 30, 1985 qualified engineers in adequate
number to be agreed with the Bank to work as counterparts to the supervision
consultants; (b) establish by Dece-mber 31, 1985 a Project Unit headed by a
Project Manager and consisting of qualified staff in adequate number to
coordinate the implementation of the project, review and process tender
documents, arrange for procurement, prepare progress reports and implement the
training program; and (c) prepare and submit by December 31, 1985 to the Bank
for its approval a training program and thereafter carryout such program in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
3.19     The Bank assisted PSPA prepare terms of reference for: (a)
supervision of civil works construction and equipment purchase; and (b)
technical assistance and training. Agreements have been reached with PSPA
during negotiations that it will employ, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank: (a) a port operations expert by December 31, 1985 for a period of
18 months; and (b) financial management consultants by December 31, 1985 for a
period of 24 months (para. 3.05 (d)).
3.20     Construction is expected to start in mid 1986 and be completed in mid
1990. The critical path program for project implementation (Annex VI) has
been discussed with PSPA and confirmed during negotiations. Under an Action
Plan agreed during negotiations, PSPA will prepare quarterly progress reports
as well as a completion report, in such details as will be agreed with the
Bank. The format of the progress reports was discussed during negotiations.
H. Impact on Environment and Employment
3.21     No significant environmental impact is expected on the city of Port
Said or its port as a result of the project since all proposed improvements
are confined to minor expansion of existing facilities that have operated in
the same location for several years.



- 24 -
3.22     The project will generate employment opportunities during the
construction stage for some 300 skilled and unskilled labor. On completion of
the project a wide range of additional jobs would be created totalling about
100, ranging from port labor to skilled and semi-skilled workers in the
operation and maintenance of the facilities to be provided under the project.
The decrease in labor force as a result of reduction in barge operations will
be offset by the additional labor needed to operate the proposed multi-purpose
berth.



-25-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic Projections
4.01     Traffic projections used in the economic evaluation are arrived at by
allocating the total forecast traffic to all ports on the basis of regional
analysis of demand and supply conditions of major commodity groups, in a
manner which minimizes land transport costs. Projections for total port
traffic are, in turn, based on estimates of future domestic production and
consumption of major commodity or commodity groups, and macro-economic
relationships. The allocation of total traffic among ports takes into account
on-going constructions at El Dikheila and Damietta. In addition, it is
assumed that second stage developments at El Dikheila and Damietta would be
carried out in accordance with the master plans; their implementation is to
take place in the 1990's when the need arises. Therefore, traffic projections
for Port Said incorporate assumptions least favorable to the port.
Projections for Total Port Traffic
4.02     The rapid growth in the economy and the resulting quantum increase in
Egypt's maritime traffic, which occurred during the recent years, are expected
to continue in the future although at a somewhat reduced pace. Imports will
account for a predominant portion of the total traffic.  Egypt's traditional
exports, fresh fruits, vegetables and other agricultural commodities will
remain relatively stable until about 1987 at 1.7 million tons and then show a
modest increase to reach 2.3 million tons in year 2000 - petroleum excluded.
Among the major imports, grains, particularly wheat, will continue to increase
reaching 6.0 million tons in 1987 and 9.4 million tons in year 2000.
Similarly, maize imports are expected to reach 1.6 million tons in 1987 and
increase to 3.2 million tons in year 2000. Cement will continue to be an
important commodity in port traffic. The estimated figure for 1987 is 6.0
million tons. Since Egypt is expected to increase domestic production of
cement in the 1990's, cement port traffic will gradually decline to 3.2
million tons by 2000. Among other major import items, sugar will continue to
grow at moderate rates, reaching 0.8 million tons in 1987 and 1.2 million tons
in year 2000. Flour imports are likely to increase over the forecast period
and reach 1.5 million tons in 1987 and 2.0 million tonus in 2000. Imports of
timber and timber products are projected to increase rapidly and reach 1.5
million tons in 1987 and about 3.4 million tons in year 2000. In the case of
other commodities, which are for the most part in the category of general
cargo, the traffic volume is expected to increase at an annual average rate of
5X, which is considerably below the growth rate experienced recently. Port
traffic projections are summarized below and discussed in detail in Annex VII.



- 26 -
Table 4.1: Total Port Traffic Proiectionu s'
(1,000 tons)
-   Actual -                   Forecast
1982    1983     1987     1990      1995     2000
IMWORTS
Supply Commndities /2       7,130    8,110    9,940   10,650   12,650   14,860
Dry Bulk /3                 9,630   11,170   10,700   10,930   13,370   17,500
Special Cargo /4            2,295    2,500    2,740    3,370    4,170    4,830
General /5                  4,415    5.090    5.920    7,030    8,850   11,190
TOTAL                  23,470   26.870   29.300   31,980   39,040   48,380
EXPORTS /6              1.700    1.800    2,000    1,980    2.170    2,320
GRAND TOTAL            25.170   28.670   31.300   33,960   41,210   50,700
'1  Petroleum products are excluded.
T/  Includes wheat, flour, maize, beans/lentils and tea.
/3 Includes cement, coal fertilizer, timber, ores pellets,
scrap iron.
14 Includes cotton/cotton products, rice, sugar,
pulp/paper, steel/machinery.
/5 Includes, fruits/vegetables, meat/fish/poultry,
dairy products, chemicals and others
/6 Fruits/vegetables, cotton, phosphate, and others.
Containerized Cargo Trafiic Pro jections
4.03     Among Egypt's exports about 90S of agricultural products and
foodstuffs, 100% of the consumer goods, 75S of machinery and equipment, and
50S of semi-finished products and raw materials are suitable for container
transport. At present, the average container penetration rate is 25S. This
rate is expected to increase to 551 by year 2000. Among imports all consumer
goods, about 601 of food items and semi-finished goods, and 451 of machinery
and equipment are containerizable. The present container penetration rate of
351, is expected to reach 751 by year 2000. On this basis, by 1987, about 0.4
million tons of the projected 1.7 million tons of exports will be shipped in
containers, about 0.55 million ton in 1995 and 0.6 million ton in year 2000.
The containerized import traffic will reach 2.2 million tons in 1987, about
3.6 million tons in 1995 and 4.8 million ton in year 2000. Table 5 in Annex
VII shows the details of containerized traffic.
B. Allocation of Total Traffic Among Ports
4.04     The allocation of traffic among all ports assumes that all on-going
and future expansions at Damietta and El Dikheila ports would be carried out



- 27 -
and that the ports of Suez and Safaga would be rehabilitated and modernized
(para. 4.01). These planned developments will have a bearing on Port Said
traffic. Damietta is likely to absorb a predominant portion of the expected
growth in general cargo traffic. In addition, the planned modern port and
storage facilities for wheat at Damietta, Safaga, and Suez would mean that
wheat imports handled at Port Said will decline. As noted earlier, with the
growth of domestic production, the cement traffic will decline in all ports
(para. 4.02).
4.05     In the fully developed port sub-sector, Port Said port will primarily
serve the three governorates located within its hinterland: Port Said,
Ismailia and Sharkia. These governorates will have a combined population of
over 4.6 million in 1990 and 5.4 million in year 2000. In addition, the port
is an integral part of the Government's policy to develop Port Said as a free
trade zone. Within this area a Public Industrial Free Zone (92 Ha) has been
established for promoting international joint ventures. Since its inception,
The Free Zone Authority has approved about 100 projects including 26
industrial enterprises with total employment for about 4,000 workers. Within
the free city various commercial enterprises, warehousing, refrigerated
stores, national and international banks have been established. Furthermore,
Port Said has always been an active port prior to 1976 (when the port was
closed) and has long experience and tradition in serving the shipping trade;
several well-established insurance, shipping and maritime related enterprises
are available. Last but not least, because of its ideal location, Port Said
has a great potential as a transshipment point which in the traffic forecasts
has not been taken into account. Moreover, in view of its excellent land
transport links, Port Said will also continue to serve some traffic destined
to the greater Cairo area. This, combined with its long experience and
well-established banking, insurance and maritime services, will make Port Said
highly competitive for traffic destined to the Cairo and Delta areas.
4.06     Table below shows Port Said traffic for the years 1990 and 2000.  The
future traffic allocation among all ports is shown in Tables 6 and 7 in
Annex VII.
Table 4.2: Port Said Traffic for 1990 and 2000
('000 tons)
1990       2000
Cement                   900         200
Wheat                    600         500
Maize                  1,000       1,000
Flour                    500         500
Sugar                    450         350
Steel                    150         250
Meat/Fish/Poultry        200         200
Other                  1,050       1,600
Total              4,850       4,600



- 28 -
Containerized Cargo
4.07    The origin-destination pattern for containerized cargo is based on the
general cargo flows determined in accordance with least transport cost, taking
into account the expected capacity at each port. Table 4.3 below indicates
the distribution of container traffic among all ports for the years 1990 and
2000.
Table 4.3: Distribution of Container Traffic
Among Egypt's Ports
(in TEU)
Ports                   1990            2000
Alexandria              150,000          160,000
Dikheila                 80,000          110,000
Damietta                 90,000         330,000
Port Said                75,000         150,000
Suez/Safaga               5,200            5,200
Total              400,200         755,200
Source: "Inland Transport of containers in Egypt".
A report by DHV, Consulting Engineers,
Holland and Pacer Consultants, Cairo.
C. Economic Rate of Return
Project Benefits
4.08     Principal benefits of the project include: (a) reduction in ship
turnaround time; (b) reduction in cargo handling costs: (c) reduction in
damage to cargo; and (d) direct savings in freight charges. The project will
also generate foreign exchange earnings from transshipment, but these benefits
have not been included in the rate of return calculations because of the
uncertainties surrounding the future volume of this traffic. Moreover, by
reducing barge congestion the project will generate benefits for vessels and
traffic using the port and for convoys using the Suez Canal. These benefits
have also not been included in the rate of return calculations, because they
are difficult to quantify.
4.09     Project benefits have been quantified by comparing conditions which
would prevail under "without the project" situation with those "with the
project". The "without the project" situation is defined as the existing
facilities as well as the 345 m container berth under construction.
Quantification of benefits is confined only to the traffic which will be
handled at the proposed multi-purpose berth.



- 29 -
4.10     Ship-time savings attribtutable to the project are estimated on the
basis of (i) the average load per vessel. 1,000 t; (ii) the average cargo
handling productivity at anchor, 190 t per day compared to the productivity at
berth, 700 t per day; (iii) the average ship size, 10,000 dwt; and (iv) the
cost per ship/day, based on the weighted average of the annualized resale
value plus operating costs (75S) and the sinking fund plus operating costs,
(25Z). In the following rate of return calculations, only 65S of these
savings have been taken into account based on Egypt capturing: (i) the
totality of savings according to Egyptian owned vessels (accounting for about
15S) and in charter trade; and (li) 502 of the savings accruing to liner
vessels.
4.11     Reductions in cargo handlings costs and benefits resulting from
reduction in damage to cargo are limited only to that portion of the traffic
which vill be handled at the project berth. Elimination of lighterage
operations is estimated to reduce damage to cargo by only 31. Savings in
freight rate reductions resulting from elimination of transshipment cost are
confined to container traffic handled at the project berth. At present,
containers are brought to Port Said by feeder vessels from Cyprus and Greece.
Far Eastern liners through the Suez Canal will be able to berth, after
completion of the project, at Port Said and will thereby avoid the
transshipment of containers by feeder vessels. Because project benefits do
not rest on growth in traffic, their level remains the same throughout the
analysis period.
Proiect Costs
4.12     The economic costs of the project include investments required for
the multi-purpose berth and cargo handling equipment.  Cost estimates exclude
taxes and custom duties on imported items and are based on border prices of
major tradeable items. Costs are expressed in 1985 prices, and exclude price
contingencies, but include physical contingencies.



- 30 -
Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
4.13     A summary of cost and benefit streams is shown below in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
(in 1985 prices, Us$ million)
-   Costs                               Benefits
Mainte-                 Cargo     Savings    Freight
nance &     Ship Time  Handling  on Damage  Cost
Year    Investment   Renewals    Savings    Cost         to Cargo   Savings  Total
Savings
1986        9.00         -             
1987       15.00         -           -          -            -         -         -
1988       10.00         -            -         -            -         -         -
1989        6.00         -            -         -            -         -         -
1990         -          0.2          5.3       2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1991         -          0.2         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1992         -          0.2         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1993         -          0.3         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1994         -          0.3         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
199.,        -          1.9         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1996         -          0.4         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1997         -          0.4         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1998         -          0.4         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
1999         -          0.4         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
2000         -          2.7         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
2001         -          0.4         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
2002         -          0.4         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
2003         -          0.4         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
2004         -          0.5         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
2005         -          3.2         5.3        2.5          2.7       3.3      13.8
4.14         The project yields a satisfactory rate of return about 22S.  The
first year rate of return from the project at 12S discount rate is also
estimated to be above 21Z, indicating that the proposed project is timely and
much needed.
4.15         The high rates of return indicate the project's urgency.  The
economic rate of return was tested for its sensitivity to variations in the
cost and benefit parameters as shown below:
Rate of Return
a)  101 increase in costs                20.5S
b)  201 increase in costs                19.01
c)  101 reduction in benefits            20.31
d)  20S reduction in benefits            18.3S
e)  Combined (a) and (c)                 18.71
f)  Combined (b) and (d)                 15.21



- 31 -
Risks
4.16     Risks associated with short-falls in forecast traffic are considered
to be negligible. This is due to the fact that the estimated benefits do not
depend on growth in traffic. Instead, they result from a reduction of only
30S in total lighterage operations. A short fall in the forecast traffic to
be handled at the proposed multi-purpose berth would only come about if there
is a sharp decline in the total port traffic. This is highly unlikely. The
port of Port Said serves three important Governorates as well as the Free
Trade and Free Industrial Zones (para. 4.05). Despite this, however, the
economic rate of return was tested for its sensitivity to such an unlikely
event. A 302 reduction in the traffic to be handled at the proposed
multi-purpose berth (this is equivalent to a reduction of about 1.4 million
tons in the current level of port traffic) would reduce the rate of return to
about 152 which is satisfactory.
4.17     Risks associated with increases in project costs over and above those
already dealt with in the foregoing sensitivity analysis are considered
unlikely, since cost estimates are based on contract prices for ongoing
construction of the container terminal and the proposed project is an
extension of this terminal to be constructed on similar type of soil. The
design and competitive supply procedures envisaged for procurement of project
items may even result in more advantageous prices.
4.18     The result of the economic evaluation was teste. for sensitivity to
delays; the results are acceptable: a one-year delay reduces the rate of
return to 19.2X, two-year delay to 16.8% and three-year delay to 14.7%.



- 32 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01     PSPA obtained most of its revenues in its first year from rentals and
storage dues, but since then has progressively diversified its revenue base.
This trend is likely to continue with two major new developments: (i) leasing
of gantry cranes and other cargo handling equipment; and (ii) the development
of dues paying operations at quay. Current revenues are adequate and the
financial position of PSPA is expected to remain strong.
5.02     The financial responsibilities of PSPA are dictated by law governing
all state public authorities. Accordingly. all surplus achieved by the
authority is transferred to the Government, while Governmnt would cover
deficit, if any. Funds needed for major investments raised through local and
foreign borrowings are repaid by funds either from depreciation or received
from the Government. The interest charges are deducted from the yearly
operating surplus which the Government receives from PSPA.
B. Past Performance and Present Financial Situation
5.03     PSPA's income statements for fiscal years 1981482 through 1983-8i
show very high operating ratios and rates of return. This is partly due to
the inadequate valuation of port assets, but it does indicate that PSPA is
financially healthy.
Table 5. 1: PSPA's Income Statement l
(in '000 EE)
1981-82     1982-83       1983-84 &'
Operating revenues          7,677        7,209        8,221
Operating costs
Working expenses           538       1,109         1,304
Depreciation                22          87           224
Sub total               560       1,196         1,528
Operating income            7,117        6,013        6,693
Non-operating income           37          192          151
Less:
Interest                     -         155           708
Surplus to Government       7,154        6,050        6,136
Indicators
Operating ratio                13.7          6.0          5.4
Return on Net Fixed           115.6S        96.5S       lOl.4
Assets in use
1/  Fiscal Year, July 1 - June 30
2/ Not audited as yet.



- 33 -
5.04     PSPA's total operating revenues increased from EE 7.7 million in its
inception year to EE 8.2 million in 1983-84, an increase of about 71 in two
years, whereas total traffic grew by about 202 over the same period. The lag
in revenues was mainly due to a 75S tariff exemption granted to staple food
imports in 1983. At the same time Law No. 24 of September 1983, applicable to
all ports, enabled PSPA to earn in 1983-84 about EE 3.0 million from ship dues
inexistent before. The current structure of revenues is more diversified and,
therefore, sounder than during the first years of the port authority, when
most revenues accrued from storage dues. Presently, a substantial share of
revenues is derived from tariffs specific to Port Said which are set either by
the Board or by the Ministry of Maritime Transport. Annex VIII shows the
distribution of revenues by sources.
5.05     The 1422 increase of working expenses (Table 5.1) over the last three
years reflects the progressive increase in the number of staff within the
agreed organizational structure. To a lesser extent, it was influenced by
increased maintenance works. In addition, PSPA is now required to pay the
Customs Department a 10 commission collected on storage dues. Depreciation
charges also increased about 10 times to reach E 0.2 million in 1983-84,
mainly due to the addition of new assets. The depreciation of assets received
from the Suez Canal Authority, except the sheds and warehouses, is still
limited to a temporary 0.51 rate pending their revaluation after wbich normal
rates will apply. The non-operating section includes mainly interest: (i)
earned by the PSPA on Bank's deposits; and (ii) paid to service PSPA's debts.
5.06     The PSPA's balance sheets for the three fiscal years under review are
summarized below, and given in detail in Annex IX.
Table 5.2: PSPA's Balance Sheet
(in EE 1,000)
1981-82     1982-83        1983-84
Current assets            4,870        3,183         6,846
Work in progress             527       4,619        10,397
Net fixed assets           6,186       6,427         6,751
Investments                                            120
Total assets           11,583       14,229        24,114
Current liabilities       4,446        3,237         6,616
Loans                      1,310       5,156        11,659
Equity                    5,827        5.836         5,839
Total liabilities      11.583       14,229        24,114
5.07     The growth in current assets is primarily the result of a rapid
increase in receivables, from EE 0.6 million in 1981-82 to 3.9 million in



- 34 -
1983-84. More than EE 1.0 million is long overdue as rent on land leased from
PSPA. The lessees are reluctant to pay the lease amount because (1) there is
uncertainty over the ownership of land located on the Canal's east bank; and
(ii) PSPA has increased rents charged after it took the land from SCA raising
opposition from the tenants. A dated covenant has been introduced in the
Guarantee Agreement for the Government to help resolve the matter not later
than December 31, 1985. Other receivables indicate an average collection
period of about 4 months, which is too long and revenue collection need to be
improved, including changes in the payment systems and a better follow up of
unpaid invoices. Under an Action Plan agreed during negotiations PSPA will
submit to the Bank measures, including tlming for their implementation, to
reach not later than December 31, 1987 the objective of a 60-day average
period for revenue collection, and settlement of outstanding amount.
5.08     Net fixed assets rose by about EE 0.6 million during 1981-1984.
Assets initially received from the SCA amounted to EE 5.9 million. Some
others were progressively released by SCA and incorporated in PSPA's accounts
at their book value. Minor investments in buildings and equipment were also
added to the assets. The current net value of fixed assets. about E 7
million, is substantially understated, in part because land transferred to
PSPA is given no value. Presidential Decree No. 565 of 1980 stated in Article
8 that "a presidential decree shall be issued to define the assets of the
Authority.., and such assets shall be valued by a committee". Under an Action
Plan agreed during negotiations, PSPA will revalue its assets not later than
r^cember 31, 1986 and incorporate their new values in its books by March 1987.
5.09     The Port Authority's net fixed assets remained relatively stable over
the years, whereas outstanding debts increased from EE 1.3 million in 1981-82
to 11.7 million in 1983-84, due to the rehabilitation program including the
ongoing construction of the container berth. About EE 8.1 million of the
total debt is owed to local lenders. In addition, PSPA has obtained letters
of credit amounting to some EE 3.5 million for supply of steel to be used in
the construction of the container berth to be covered by a US$10.2 million
equivalent loan obtained from the Norwegian Government still to be ratified by
the People's Assembly.
C. Prospects and Financial Prolectior-
General
5.10     The financial projections cover the 1985-1992 period.  Though overall
traffic is expected to remain stable. PSPA should be able to maintain a sound
financial position because general cargo traffic, which is the most lucrative
activity, will continue to increase. The expected decrease in traffic will be
mainly in bulk cargo likely to shift to other ports. PSPA will collect
revenues in relation to its ongoing development including, in addition. to
normal port dues: (i) rentals for the new container terminal and multi-purpose
berth; and (ii) charges for the use of the Bank financed equipment.
5.11     The financial objective set for the PSPA is to generate each year
enough internal funds to cover all expenses related to operations, including



- 35 -
administration and proper maintenance, working capital needs, the debt 'service
requirements and to contribute to no less than 35Z of the average capital
expenditures incurred that year and the next three following years. This was
agreed during negotiations.
Investment Program and Financing of the Project
5.12     PSPA's planned investments over the 1985-90 period amount to some
E 93.1 million distributed as follows: (i) the multipurpose terminal and the
Bank-financed equipment - EE 74.8 million; (ii) the container terminal -
EE 16.0 million; and (iii) other investments for limited rehabilitation and
renewal of existing port assets - EE 2.3 million. Loans contracted locally
are equivalent to El 34.5 million, of which EE 26.4 million will be disbursed
during the period 1985 to 1990. Withdrawals from the Norwegian loan over the
same period amount to EE 7.5 million. The Bank loan for a total of US$37
million is equivalent to some EE 53.4 million. The balance of funds needed,
about EL 5.8 million, will be met from depreciation.
5.13     The detailed sources of funds specifically needed to finance the Bank
project are given below:
Bank Loan:    EE 53.4 million
Local Loan    EL 17.9 million
Depreciation; EL 3.5 million
Total       74.8 million
The outstanding foreign loans are revalued each year in accordance with the
differentials of local and international inflation.  The corresponding
financial losses are treated as deferred charges and amortized over the
repayment periods of the foreign loans.  The initial revaluation of the port
assets and the new investments will result in higher depreciation and
therefore greater amounts will be available to finance new investments,
subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Planning.
5.14     The IBRD loan and the local loan have periods of grace respectively
of five and four years. The Norwegian loan has a period of grace which
coincides with the construction period. The loans bear interest as follows;
(i) 8.5Z for local loans; (ii) 9.75% for the Norwegian loan; and (iii) 9.32
for the Bank loan. They are to be repaid in 16, 10 and 15 annuities,
respectively. The loan repayments made by Government are added to equity.
The studies and expert services are classified as start-up costs depreciated
over six years. The projections also assume that the outstanding accounts
receivable are settled (see para. 5.07).
Financial Forecasts
5.15     The future balance sheet is summarized in Table 5.3 below and shown
in greater detail in Annex X. The debt equity ratio increases from 27/73 in
1985 to 58/42 in 1992, peaking at 65/35 in 1990. The capital structure
remains satisfactory throughout the period and PSPA could proceed with some
additional investments if needed without impairing its financial situation



- 36 -
under existing tariffs. The current ratio (current assets/current
liabilities) remains around 1.2 from 1985 to 1989 rising quickly thereafter to
each 3.3 in 1992 with substantial cash accumulated through depreciation.
Those internal resources will be readily available to finance the second phase
of the Port Said Port development currently envisaged but not integrated yet
in this financial projection.
Table 5.3:  PSPA Su.mary Balance Sheet
(in EE '000)
Current Assets      3.591   3.S81   3,075   4,666   4.063   6.627    9.325   14.035
Less
Current Liabilities   3.053   3.039   2.597   3,973   3,092   4,433    3,304    4,294
Net Fixed Assets   47.137  46.798  46.422  71.875  70.904 130,164  127.666  125.298
Work in Progress   13.4S1  36.413  64.530  43,746  S9.S77      -        -
Investments           480    480    480  12.480  12.480  12.48'   12,480   12,480
Deefertred Charges    281   1.282   2.593   4,180   6.150   8.391   10.048   11.577
Start-up Costs       -     -           -                   1,afl  ..1..20f  ...0..0n
Total Capital Used   61.887  85.515 114.503 132.974 150.082 154.819  157.415  159.996
Represented by
Equity          45.002  45,172  45.342  47.503  50,842  54.238   59,714   67.422
Long Term Loans   16.885  40.343  69.161  85.471  99,241 100,581   97.701   92.574
Indicators                                                             771 9.7
Current Rattio        1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.5          2.8     3.3
Debt Service Coverage   5.9    3.6    2.3    1.5    1.3    1.5        1.4      1.4
Debt Equity Ratio    27/73   47/S3   60/40   64/36   66/34   65/35    62/38   58/42
I/ The revalued amount of fixed assets as of January 1. 1985 is taken at El 44.5 million.
5.16     The future income statement is also summarized below and shown in
detail in Annex XI. The operating revenues in 1985 will be raised to EE 10.7
million as a result of tariff i'creases which became effective in January
1985. The expected additional revenue from the new tariffs is estimated at
some EE 3 million. The projection assumes that all tariffs except the storage
dues applicable to supply commodities would be adjusted each year starting
1986 to offset inflation. Projected revenues incorporate no other tariff
increases as the above adjustments alone would secure the financial viability
of PSPA. PSPA's revenues include the dividend to be received from CTOC from
1988 onward and calculated as 101 of its investment or E1.2 million per year
(see para. 2.11). This objective was discussed during negotiations and it was
agreed that the overall financial structure of CTOC be established with due
consideration to PSPA's interest as its shareholder and that CTOC shall earn
revenues adequate to realize an appropriate rate of return on its invested
capital. In view of the good profitability of the public entities in the port
sub-sector, the risks of CTOC not paying adequate dividends to PSPA are small



- 37 -
and should they materialize, they would not substantially affect the financial
status of PSPA since lowering its dividend by 50X would reduce its 1988 income
by about 101 only.
Table 5.4' PSPA Suamary Income Statement
(in EE '000)
12K  E2a  6m  lg87    im               I8  198         I90191
Operating Revenues   10,756  12,292  13.828  16.778  18.439  22.814  25.404  28,073
Working Expenses      1,238   1.353   1.769   2.570   2.938  5.181   5,782   6.469
Depreciation          - -      .678     714    711  1.262  1.615  2.942  4.537  4.7&1
Operating Surplus     8,840  10,22S  11.308  12.946  13.886  14.691  15,085  16.883
Interest on LT debt   1.4SO  2.886   5.144  721   8.221  _h .94  8.523  8.062
Income to Govt.       7,391   7.339   6.164   5.87S   5.665   5,997   6,562   8,821
Indicators
Operating Ratio        0.18   0.17   0.18    0.22    0.25   0.36   0.41    0.40
Return on
- Net Fixed Assets
(NfA) in Use        18.7   21.8    23.4    21.9    19.5    14.6    11.7   13.3
- NFA X Investment    18.6   21.6   24.0    19.7    16.6   13.0   10.7   12.1
1/ Rate of return calculated on the average net fixed assets in ;se.
5.17     The major objective is to generate enough cash from operations to
ensure that no burden is put on the Government's budget to finance port
investments and to service the related debt. A debt limitation covenant
included in the Loan Agreement fits well a situation where practically all
investments are financed through loans. According to this covenant, PSPA
shall not incur any further debt without the agreement of the Bank unless its
net revenues for the fiscal year preceding the date of such incurrence or for
a later period of 12 consecutive months ending prior of such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall not be less than 1.3 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year.
5.18     The above defined covenant will inter alia ensure that enough funds
are available to cover normal maintenance. The latter will be further
specified in a supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement fixing for each
category of port assets a standard coefficient through which to calculate the
budget allocation to the maintenance program for any succeeding fiscal year.
Tariffs
5.19     Without cost accounting, PSPA's pricing of its services is
necessarily tentative. The existing tariff structure which is conducive to
the profitability of the port authority, does not, in a major way, conflict
with sound pricing principles.  However, the technical assistance under the
project will address this matter. The future cost accounting system will be
such as to: (i) facilitate the comparison between revenues generated by the
nationwide



- 38 -
tariffs and their corresponding cost centers; and tii) maintain all tariffs
specific to Port Said in relation to the costs of services provided. Under an
Action Plan agreed during negotiations, PSPA will take all measures to set up
a cost accounting system following which cost related tariffs will be
introduced. Such requirements are extended to the major port operators, CLUC,
GCSW and CTOC, and it was agreed during negotiations that the Government would
assist PSPA to initiate pricing studies to serve as a basis for its proposals
concerning the adoption of cost based tariffs by those three enterprises.
5.20     Cargo handling on the multi-purpose berth will be the responsibility
of CTOC under the existing organization which is satisfactory. The projection
assumes that the area used for storage will be rented by CTOC.  The rental
will cover the operating and maintenance costs, depreciation plus a lOZ return
on the net fixed assets. The cargo handling equipment other than the gantry
cranes will be hired by CTOC at rates covering depreciation plus a lOS return
on the capital invested. Maintenance will be covered by CTOC.
5.21     During negotiations it has been agreed that the lease terms would be
subject to prior review and approval by the Bank on the basis of the above
defined principles.



- 39 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     Confirmation has been obtained from PSPA during negotiations that:
(a) customs duties will not be levied on imported materials or equipment
for the project (para. 3.12);
(b) all contracts under the project will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for Procurement (para. 3.18);
tc) all civil works construction and equipment purchase will be
supervised by independent consultants acceptable to the Bank under
terms of reference agreed with the Bank (para. 3.18);
(d) all consultants and experts for technical assistance and studies will
be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Employment of
Consultants under term of reference agreed with the Bank (para.
3.18); and
Ce) it agrees to project implementation schedule (para. 3.20).
6.02     Agreements bave been reached with the Government and PSPA during
negotiations that;
(a) PSPA will implement the agreed Action Plan (Annex XIV);
(b) PSPA will: (i) increase the number of its engineers to five civil
engineers, two mechanical engineers and two electrical engineers
before December 31, 1985; (ii) prepare for Bank review a report on
needed maintenance works by December 31, 1985 and complete srcb works
by December 31, 1986; and (iii) submit for Bank review at the end of
each calendar year a report on maintenance works carried out during
the year and their costs, as well as works scheduled for the next
calendar year (para. 2.09);
(c) PSPA will undertake studies required to implement a cost related
tariff system (para. 2.27);
(d) the audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within
six months after the end of each fiscal year, together with the audit
report and the accompanying management letter (para. 2.29);
(e) the agreement between PSPA and CTOC for the use, operation and
maintenance of the container terminal, the multi-purpose berth and
the cargo handling equipment provided under the project will be
agreed with the Bank, and should ensure that CTOC will earn an
appropriate rate of return on its invested capital. Signing of the
above agreement will be a condition of disbursement of loan proceeds
for the cranes and equipment (paras. 3.14, 5.16 and 5.21);



- 40 -
(f) the Government will help PSPA to settle the issue of land ownership
not later than December 31, 1985, to recuperate the related arrears
and take measures by December 1987 to settle outstanding accounts
within 60 days of billing date (para. 5.07);
(g) PSPA will revalue its assets not later than December 31, 1986 and
incorporate their new values by March 1987 (para. 5.08);
(h) PSPA will generate each year enough internal funds to cover all cash
expenses and to contribute to no less than 35X of the average capital
expenditures incurred that year and the next three following years
(para. 5.11);
(i) PSPA will not incur any further debt unless its net revenues for the
fiscal year preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
period of 12 consecutive months ending prior of such incurrence
whichever is the greater shall not be less than 1.3 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year (para. 5.17).
6.03     Assurance has been obtained from the Government during negotiations
that:
(a) all necessary steps will be taken to provide all local funds
necessary to complete the project on schedule (para. 3.13); and
(b) it will cause CTOC to acquire before June 30, 1987 container handling
equipment in adequate numbers and capacities that would ensure
efficient operation of the container terminal now under construction
(para. 3.09).
6.04     Complete evacuation and availability of the land needed for the
project should be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.10).
6.05     Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable basis
for a Bank loan to PSPA of US$37.0 million equivalent.



-41-
ANNEX I (a)
R~~~~.1
1X I
L~~I
g~~~~~~ X            |            iiIII
.l II iI.g  jI



ARMAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF PSPA'S FINACIAL AND COMMERICAL DEPARTEINT
rr-
I      Sltu^o&ll                                   4        Tmo
Cosl Accountig &     I        ifmltWl                   9f                     Ciordtcxts &
wow  _i         F! Km                                      _     ocu
r -  - -L-   - J            -  -   -  -  -e                                                              ___________
I      I                  Im            R  e                     CnrcsGra
Ir,0'J---- -              1                                          * cI l 
L~~~ _                                           ____J  __  
r---   1---- r
&ieeow's      ISloakelepmng 
-  _  _  _  _ J   j      ~~~~~Loons9aeW                          
Ar efet                     Moi Sk -  -                                  q        mdi
r - - - -I
~~~~~-  -  -  -O                     - ,s  o eCo
VAmId Ow-26796



- 43 -
ANNEX II
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT-EXPANSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port Performance Indicators: 1983 and 6 months of 1984
Average           Average        Average cargo         Tons handled         Average
waiting time      service tioe       per vessel           per day of         number of
Traffic items          (days)             (days)            (tons)           service time     ships er month
1983     1984     198      1984_9            1984       1983     1984       1983  1984
Wneat in bulk       3.4       3.6     10.1       9.8  30498      38653      3018     3914        3      3
Flour in bags       2.8       2.3     13.8       7.3  11315       9262       820     1259        4      5
Corn in bulk        3.7       5.0     26.8      17.4  25100      17697       936     1016         1     2
Sugar In bags       2.5       2.9     14.0      14.3  11020      10986       784      765        3      2
Frozen meat         2.0       3.0      8.3      5.7   3467        2053       416      360        2      3
Frozen chicken      2.2       2.2      9.1       7.6   4337       3670       475      481         1     1
Frozen fish         2.9       6.8      6.6       5.9   1731       1739       263      294        3      4
General cargo        1.6      1.7      4.1       3.8    705        740       172      193       34    38
Containerized cargo 1.4       1.1      2.0      2.1    741         757       367      369       22    24
Cement in bulk      4.8       4.0      9.8      9.3  12155       13271      1225     1441       11    10
Iron and steel      4.3       6.5     12.0     13.3   5436        6003      451       450        2     2



- 44 -
AMEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND
REtHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of Project Description
A. Civil Works
The project is mainly the construction of a multi-purpose berth 250 a
long and 12 xa deep. The berth design allows for dredging up to 14 m in front
of the berth in the future, if needed. Since the soil condition at the
location of the berth is known to be weak, consisting mainly of layers of
medium to stiff silt deposits over a sand strata located at about 40 m below
MWL, the least cost solution for berth structure is expected to be a
reinforced concrete deck supported by steel piles penetrating about 5 m into
the sand strata.
The berth will be fitted with appropriate fenders and bollards. The
design of the berth as well as its fenders and bollards will take into
consideration the live loads caused by the container cranes and the mobile
cargo handling equipment as well as the effect of ships passing through the
Canal, in particular, on container handling operations.
The berth will be provided with adequate support facilities including
a transit shed, electricity, fresh water, drainage system as well as rails for
container cranes on the same alignment and of the same type as those provided
on the adjacent container berth.
Rehabilitation of existing port facilities will mainly include
purchase and installation of fenders for all deep-water berths, provision and
installation of cathodic protection for the above mentioned berths,
improvement of the electrical system, and purchase and installation of
sub-stations needed for the operation of the container cranes.
B. Cargo Handling Equipment
Two container cranes 35 t capacity each will be provided under the
project. Contract award is scheduled for January 1986 to ensure availability
of the cranes at the time the container berth is ready for operation (fall
1987).
Mobile cargo handling equipment provided under the project are needed
to ensure efficient operations at the proposed multi-purpose berth. These
include two forklift trucks 40 t capacity for containers, two mobile cranes



-45-                               ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
20 t capacity and two mobile cranes 10 t capacity, two forklift trucks 10 t
capacity, eight forklift trucks 4 t capacity, six forklift trucks 2 1/2 t
capacity, five tractors, and 15 trailers 20 to 35 t capacity. Contracts will
include spare parts for three years' use. Contract award for the above
equipment in scheduled for January 1989 to ensure their availability at the
time the multi-purpose berth ip ready for operations (mid 1989).
C. Technical Assistance
(a) consulting services for project preparation;
(b) consulting services for supervision of construction and acquisition
of equipment;
(c) Port Operations: a port operation expert to: (i) devise and install
efficient port operation and cargo handling procedures; (ii) train
permanent port staff and, where necessary, casual port labor, in
these procedures and in equipment operation; and (iii) prepare
necessary documentation (in conjunction with the management
consultants, see (d) below);
(d) Management Services; management consultants to undertake the
following tasks:
i3  review the present financial accounting system and ensure its
compliance with the national accounts code and international
standards;
(ii) devise a cost accounting system, integrated with the financial
accounts, and based upon the tariff structure, which will provide
adequate costing data to enable management to make timely
decisions regarding port tariff rates;
(iii) establish budget preparation and control systems;
(iv) establish effective internal control and audit systems;
(v) prepare necessary manuals on (i) to (v) above; and
(vi) help in recruiting necessary additional staff and undertake the
training of all staff in their respective areas, and assist
management in the use of all above mentioned systems.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EBWT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of PLoVct Cost Estimte /1
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreiui   Total  I of Total
- - -- E million - - - -      -- US$ mIllion   - - -    Bus  Cost
A. Civil Works
1. Barth Construction                  7.750    14.125  21.875       6.20     11.30    17.50      46
2. Dredging                             1.37S    1.375   2.750       1.10      1.10     2.20       6
3. Transit Shad                         1.000    1.500   2.SOO       0.80      1.20     2.00       S
4. Support Facilities /2                1.250    l.S00   2.750       1.00      1.20     2.20       6
5. Rehabilitation                       1.000    2.500   3.500       0.80     2.00      2.80       7
B. Cargo Handlino Equipmat
6. Two Container Cranes                0.125    8.625   8.7S0        0.10     6.90      7.00      18
7. Mobile Equipment                     -        2.750   2.750        -       2.20      2.20       6
C. Technical Assistance
8. Project Preparation                 0.250    0.375   0.625        0.20     0.30      O.S0       1
8. Construction Supervision            O.SOO    O.SOO   1.000        0.40     0.40      0.80       2
10. Port Operations &  anagemnt L3     O.SOO    0.750    1.250       0.40     0.60      1.00       3
Sub-total 1 to 10 (Base Cost) A    13.750   34.000  47.7S0     11.00    27.20    3B.20       100
0. Physical Continoencies LS.              1.750    4.625   6.3V5        1.40     3.70      S.10      13
E. Price Continoencies i6                  5.87S   14.7S0  20.625        2.20     6.10      8.30      22
Total Contingenies                     7.62S   19.3JS  27.000        3.60     9A0      13.40      3S
Total Project Cost                   21.375   53.375  74.750       14.60    37.00    51.60      135
/1 lo customs duties. The project Is exaPt from customs duties
on iwqorted material and equipment.
2  Including buildings, paving and utilities (water. electricity
and drainage).
13 Including training.
/4 At mid-198S prices and based on a rate of exchange of US$1 - El 1.25.
Ts 15S on civil works and 101 on equipment and technical assistance.
/6 Price contingencies, when base cost Is expressed In US$ equivalent, have been estimted
assuming anual price increas  of S for 1965. 7.5S for 1966 and 8S for 1967 to 1990.
and when expressed In ES, 16% for 196S, 14% for 1986 and 121 for 1967 to 1990.
Source: Bank Staff
April 1985



- 47 -
ANNX V
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPRISAL EPON? OF
PORT SAID FORT EXPANSION AND
RCEHUILITATION PROJECT
E.timted Schedule of Loan Diabureemnt
(US$ million)
lank Fiscal Year
and Quarter                              Quarter      Cuulative
1984/1985. Quarter ending
December 31, 1984                          0.04           0.04
March 31, 1985                             0.07           0.11
June 30, 1985                              0.18           0.29
1985/1986. Quater ending
September 30, 1985                         0.11           0.40
December 31, 1985                          0.10           0.501/
March 31, 1986                             3.00           3.00
June 30, 1986                               1.60          4.60
1986/1987. Quarter endinR
September 30, 1986                         0.83           5.43
December 31, 1986                          0.93           6.36
March 31, 1987                              1.28          7.64
June 30, 1987                               1.76          9.40
1987/1988. Quarter endint
September 30, 1987                         1.96          11.36
December 31, 1987                          7.13          18.49
March 31, 1988                             2.05          20.54
June 30, 1988                              2.11          22.65
1988/1989, Quarter ending
September 30, 1988                         1.93          24.58
December 31, 1988                          1.85          26.43
March 31, 1989                             2.81          29.24
June 30. 1989                               1.29         30.53
1989/1990. Quarter endinR
September 30, 1989                         1.16          31.69
December 31. 1989                          1.13          32.82
March 31, 1990                              1.31         34.13
June 30, 199O                               1.19         35.32
1990/19i. Quarter ending
September 30, 1990                         0.64          35.96
December 31, 199O                          0.56          36.52
March 31, 1991                             0.30          36.82
June 30, l991                              0.18          37.00
1/ Advance fro the Project Preparation Facility
Source: Bank Staff
April 1985



- 48-               ANE VI
w    ___       ____             _ _
_ _W
t  I'  I   !_      _ _ _ _ _ _ l _ _
fl _____l IT|
E~ __                     _ _ _ _   -   A I -
_ t   __ _____      _ __  __
_~~~~~ _-
EWX0;  1lI   X1f   ll



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
ARAB REPUBLIC OF ECYPT                Page 1 of 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ports and Port Traffic: Present
Conditions and Future Plans and Forecasts
A. Recent Develoouents
1.        Egypt is mainly served by the ports of Alexandria and Port Said on
the Mediterranean Coast. Ports of Suez and Safaga on the Read Sea Coast
handle primarily specialized cargo and nominal amounts of other traffic.
Alexandria is by far the largest port handling about 751 of the country's
maritime traffic. Moreover, Alezandria and Port Said are only ports providing
diverse services in facilitating Egypt's foreign trade. During recent years
because of the severe congestion at Alexandria, considerable general cargo
traffic and supply goods had to be diverted to Port Said.
2.        Over the last five years Egypt has achieved a relatively rapid
economic growth: GDP increased at an average rate of about 101 per year, as
important strides were made in industrialization. Parallel to these
developments, the introduction of an "open-door" policy and the liberalization
of the external trade and payment system has led to quantum increases in port
traffic (see Table 1 below).
3.        The increase in port traffic has almost exclusively been in imports;
exports have remined relatively stable and in some cases, have declined due
to increased domestic demand. Of the 28.7 million tons of cargo handled
(excluding petroluem) in 1983, about 26.8 million represented imports. Within
this group about 70S of the traffic consisted of a few major commodities or
comiodity groups. These, in terms of relative importance, are grains/flour
8.0 million tons, cement 7.5 million tons, coal 1.3 million tons, timber 1.3
million tons, fertilizer 3 million tons. Other import items of some
importance were alumina, sugar, edible oils, steel and a variety of
manufactured consumer and producer goods.
4.        Traditionally, a predominant portion of Egypt's exports consisted of
agricultural products, mainly fresh fruits, potatoes, onions and cotton.
Exports of mnufactured products, primarily textile yarns and fabrics,
represented only a small portion, about 300.000 tons, of the total export
volume of 1.8 million tons in 1983. Other exports, molasses, salt and
phosphate are shipped through special handling facilities.
5.        Although a predominant portion of total port traffic is handled at
Alexandria, the volume of cargo at Port Said has been steadily increasing
during recent years (see Table 2 below). Port Said traffic has also become
diversified: the port is now a major facility for bulk cargo (wheat, cement
and maize) as well as for conventional general cargo and containers. The port



lable 1: Total IMo9rts and Exports Throuah Eavatian Parts
*(in '000 T)
---- 1975 ----         - 1978 -----   ---- 1979  -----                 -----   ---- 1981 -----   ----   1982 -----
Import   Export   Import   Export   Iaport   Export   Import   Export   Iort   Export   Import   Export
DRLIULK
1.  Grains                                   3,247         -    5,844         -      5,255        -      6,129        -      7,047        -     6,949         -
-  Wheat                            (2,431)         -   (4,044)        -    (3,621)    (10)   (4,508)         -    (4,236)        -    (4,227)        _
-  Maize (corn)                     (  422          -   (  840)        -    (  487)       -    C  750)        -    (1,325)        -    (1,191)        -
-  Flour                            C  394)         -   (  960)        -    (1,147)       -    (  671)        -      1.436        -    (1,331)        -
2.  Phosphate                                     -      115         -       64          -       80          -      139         20      178          -      303
3.  Coal/Coke                                1,153          -      920        -      1,190        -      1,343        9      1,347        8      1,212        -
4.  Iron'Oxide (ores/pyrites)                   64          -      240        -        207       11        247       28        290        7        163        5
S.  Bauxite and Alumina                           -         -     (247)       -       (211)       -       (247)       -       (261)       -       (266)       -
6.  Oament                                     236        97    1,690        28      3,505       12      3,846        -      5,153        2      6,528        1
7.  Fertilizer                                 459        30    1,118        25        663       11        611        1        951        -        235        2
8.  Salt, Sulphur, Sodium, Manganese            84          -       47      159        137       18        100       49         48       14          -        2
Total 1 - 8                                  5,243       242   10,106       266    11,108       162    12,522       326    15,117       209    15,354       313
9.  Cotton and Cotton Products                    -      211         29     225           -      33           -     187          -      123          -      144
10. Rice                                         -       151         -      144          -       76        1SS      192          -      107          5       21
I1. Sugar                                      149       117       362       45        398       27        473        7        654       28        731        -
12. Paper (pulp)                               227         -       193        -         91        -         64        -         78        -         28        -
Total 9 - 12                                   376       479       564      414        469      16        692      366        732      256        764      175
SPECIAL CARG4
13. Timber                                     352         -       667        -        489        -      1,101        -      1,004        -      1.065        -
14. Iron and Steel Products                    591                                     738               1,062       17        769        6        907        1
15. Heavy Equipment and Cars                   216                                     2a2                 429       31        246       34        253       24
Total 13 - 15                                1,159         43    1,383       57      1,509       63      2,592       48      2,019       40      2,225       25
Total Dry Bulk and Special Cargo             6,778       764   12,073       737    13,166    4U1    15,806          660    17,368       507    18,343       513
G[REL CARGO
1.  Oil and Grease                               -         -        72        -          -        -         31        -        314        -        304        -
2.  Food and Agricultural Goods                469       476       735.2   375.1    321         244        416      344        622      178        570      341
3.  Containerized Cargo                                                                                  1,201      187      1,29"    227        1,038      ZO1
4.  Other General Cargo                                                                                  2,074      410      3,339      620      3,160      594
Total General Cargo                          1,472       717    2,528       602      3,173      319      3,722      941      5,744   1,025       5,072   1,136
Grand Total                                  6,250    1,481   14,598   1,339    16,344   1,220    19,528   1,601    23,642   1,532    23,415   1,649
PI I
LI  Including Molasses (114,000 T)
L2  Including Oils and Fats                                                                                                                                        O
Source:  The General Technical Secretariate of the
Ministry of Naritim Transport



- 51 -                                   ANNEX VII
-~ 51 -Page 3 of 12
is operating well above its capacity; a large volume of cargo is lightered
(see Table 3). Traffic at ports of Suez and Safaga, at present, is to a large
extent limited to special cargo: wheat, alumina and fertilizer.
Table 2: Port Said Port Traffic 1978 - 1983
(in 1,000 tons)
Imports     Exports       Total
1978           2,575          290       2,865
1979           3,068          144       3,212
1980           3,470          726       4,196
1981           3,762          983       4,745
1982           4,882          687       5,569-'
1983           5,406          659       6,065"
/1  Including oil traffic (1.05 m ton in 1982,
1.01 m ton in 1983)
Table 3: Volume of Lightered Traffic by Commodities at Port Said
(1,000 t)
1982  -            1983 --    -        984-
Total   Lightered   Total   Lightered   Total   Lightered
IMPORTS
Wheat               1,064        34      1,189        45        618         -
Flour                 446       189        554       237        287        49
Maize                 291        13        276        18        212        56
sugar                 348        97        441       165        154       110
Neat                   46        36         83        23         41        26
Poultry                28        33         35        19         29        19
Fish                   44         5         64         -         38         4
Other Gen. Cargo      265       200        284       240        169       134
Containers            170        22        193        45        109        27
Cenent             1,579        583      1,615       654        823       313
Steel                  81        63        152       139         72        73
Petroleum             520         -        520         -        291         -
TOTAL              4,882      1,275     5,406      1,585      2,844       811
EXPOP -3
Petroleum            532          -        495         -        232         -
Fruits/Vegetables      92         -         99         -         59         -
salt                    2         -          -         -          3         -
General Cargo          12         -         13         -          9         -
Containers             49         -         52         -         36         -
TOTAL                 687        25        659        40        339        20
GRAMD TOTAL        5,569      1,300      6,065     1,625      3,183       831
'1 First Six-month



- 52 -                                ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 12
B. Future Prospects
6.       While it is not expected that the rather high rate of growth in
imports during the last four years will be sustained for long, a moderate rate
of growth in the economy and therefore in port traffic is expected based on
planned specific investments and favorable general economic trends. The basic
assumptions and principles which underlie some of the major comodity
forecasts are discussed below:
General Cargo
7.       In parallel with the expected increase in income at an average annual
rate of 7%, imports of general cargo are forecast to increase at about 5.01
per annum after 1985. It must be noted that this is well below the rate of
increase (8.0X) during recent years and therefore, must be regarded as a
conservative estimate. General cargo exports, on the other hand, are expected
to stabilize at the current level until about 1986 and then to increase at a
moderate rate.
Cement_
8.       During the last few years due to the building boom in the country,
cement consumption increased rather rapidly, about 12S per year. As a result,
Egypt, which was a net exporter of cement, became a net importer after 1978.
In 1980 about 3.8, in 1981 4.1 and in 1983 7.5 million tons of cement were
imported to supplement the local production of about 4.0 million tons.
Current plans indicate that the demand for cement will increase at a rate of
8.7Z in the foreseeable future. At this rate, total cement consumption will
reach 15.2 million tons in 1990 and over 25 million tons in year 2000.
Efforts to increase domestic production are running into problems: in 1983.
actual production was 4.0 million tons, about one-half of the planned output
of 7.8 million tons. It is not expected that the planned target of 15.0 m ton
of local production by 1987 will be achieved. At best, Egypt will double its
output of cement by 1990 requiring imports in the range 4 - 5 million tons.
With further increase in local production, cement imports will gradually
decline during l990s.
Wheat/Flour
9.       A strong increase in imports of food items in general and wheat, in
pexticular, is expected in the future. The estimates based on population
growth rate (2.61 per annum), per capita income growth (5S in urban areas,
2.8S in rural areas) and income elasticity of demand (0.13 among urban
population and 0.54 rural population) indicate that demand will grow at an
annual rate of 3.8% per year, that is 9.3 m tons in 1987 increasing to about
13.5 m tons in year 2000.  On the assumption that winter crops will not
encroach on wheat areas and that some of the recently reclaimed areas may
yield additional wheat, the total domestic production will increase at a
modest rate from 2.06 m ton in 1983 to about 2.3 m tons in year 2000. After
allowing for seeding requirements and projected flour imports of 1.75 m tons,
wheat imports will be likely to increase to 6.0 m tons in 1987 and 9.4 m tons
in year 2000.



- 53 -                                ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 12
Wood/Timber
10.      All timber requirements and predominant portion of wood products are
met by imports. This situation will not change in the future. It is
estimated that demand for wood and timber will grow at about 91 per year in
paraLlel with the growth in construction and in the demand for furniture.
This given rise to 1.0 million tons of imports in 1990 increasing to about 3.4
million tons in year 2000.
Coal
11.      Although coal deposits have been known to exist in Egypt, they have
never been developed, as most are regarded as uneconomic. The most promising
coal field is the Maghara deposits in Sinai with potent al reserves of about
35 million tons. The coal is not of good quality and reserves are too small
to justify development at this field. Therefore, Egypt will continue to relay
on imports to meet its coal requirements. The availability of natural gas
will limit the need for coal as a source of energy, in particular, for
industrial usages. Based on the pLanned expansion of the domestic coke
plants, the volume of imports is expected to reach to about 3.0 in year 2000.
In addition, the current plans for construction of thermal power plants will
require additional coal imports of about 5 million tons in year 2000. For
this traffic special coal terminals are needed at power plant locations.
Pellets
12.      Demand for imported pellets and virtually all metal scrap will
originate exclusively from the iron and steel complex at Dikheila. The
initial demand for pellets is estimated to be about 100,000 tons increasing to
900,000 tons by year 2000.
Maize
13.      Domestic production of maize is currently about 3.1 million tons (net
available amount for consumption is 2.9 million tons) and is expected to
increase to about 4.0 million tons by year 2000. Consumption, on the other
hand, in 1983 was some 4.6 million tons requiring 1.7 million tons of
imports. Maize is primarily used for industrial products (starch, glucose and
yeast), feed.ng animals and poultry and for himan consumption. Industrial
uses of maize will increase rapidly during the plan period - a new lactose
factory is under construction at the city of 10th of Ramadan. Other uses of
maize will also increase, parallel to population growth and growth in incomes,
at moderate rates. As a result, Egypt will increasingly rely on imports, 2.4
million tons in 1990 and 3.2 million tons in year 2000.
Meat/Poultry/Fish
14.      It is expected that the current gap between domestic production and
demand will widen in the future. Domestic production of meat is estimated to
be about 350,000 tons in 1983. On the basis of historical figures, local
production is expected to increase by about 2.51 per annum in the iunediate
future, i.e., reach 420,000 tons by year 1990. In the longer run domestic
production could be increased somewhat more rapidly reaching about 670,000 ton



_ 54 _                            ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 12
by year 2000. Assuming that controls over demand will continue in the
analysis period there vill be a gap between production and demand of about
260,000 tons in 1990 and 350,000 in 2000. In the case of fish and poultry,
the gap between consumption and local production vill similarly widen with the
growth in population and imports are expected to reach about 190,000 tons in
1990 and 210,000 tons in 2000.
15.      Table 4 below shows port traffic projections for 1987 - 2000.
Container Traffic
16.      Forecasts for containerized cargo are based on four major
subdivisions of total general cargo:
A)  Foodstuffs and Agricultural Products;
B)  Raw Materials and Semi-Finished Products;
C)  Consumer Goods;
D)  Machinery and Equipment.
17.      In addition, for each of the commodities included in each of the
subdivisions, the portion which is containerizable is estimated on the basis
of currently prevailing practices. Table 5 shows the historic and forecast
quantities of general cargo and the portion which is containerizable for
selected years.
18.      Table 5 above indicates that the present imbalance between imported
and exported containerized cargo is likely to persist in the foreseeable
future; there will be a considerable flow of empty containers. The rate of
export containerization could be higher than forecast as low cost of using
empty containers could encourage this mode. However, the effect of this is
likely to be negligible and the total number of containers to be handled at
Egyptian ports will not be affected. The number of "imported" containers is
expected to reach about 400,000 TEU/year by 2000, implying a total throughput
of 800,000 TEUS.
C. Port Expansion Plans
19.      The Government recently adopted a long-term National Port Development
Plan largely based on the recommendations of the National Transport Studies,
Phase I and Phase II. The first five-year slice of the program is included in
the current Five-Year Development Plan. Construction of ports of Damietta and
El Dikheila are already underway. In accordance with the plan the
rehabilitation of Port Said Port has also commenced. Details of the long-term
National Port Development Plan are discussed below.
El Dikheila Port
20.      El Dikheila lies about 10 km west of the Port of Alexandria.  It
possesses natural  _dvantages as a port site; it is partially protected by a
reef of rock outcrops which forms the core of the main breakwater. The first
phase, a Bank project, Loan 2183-EGT, includes a mineral jetty for the steel
plan, a 600 m long container quay and a 820 m quay for conventional general
cargo and timber. Developments also include various cargo handling



- 55 -                                          ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 12
Table 4: Port Traffic
(in 1.000 t)
-    Actual-                 Projectlons
1982    19B3    1937    1990    1995    2000
IMPORTS
Wbeat 1'               4,220   4.730   6.000    6,400    7,800    9,400
Flour h                1.330    1.150    1,500    1,600    1.600    2.000
maim 1-'                1,390    1.700    2,200    2,400    2,800    3.200
Deane/Lentils            120       70      160      160      160     160
Tea                       70       70       s0       90       90      100
SVUTOTAL            7,130   6.110    9,940   10,650   12,650   14,860
Cem_t A                6,530    7.500    6,000   4.000    2,500    3.200
Coal l.Z               1.200    1,300    1.750    3.500    6.000   8,000
F rtll er                240      240       80       sO       60       30
Timber                 1.060    1.300    1,300    2,000    2,700    3.400
Ores r                   500      680      m00      900    1,250    1.600
Pellets                    -        -      100      200      550      900
Scrap Iron               100      150      170      250      310      370
SUBTOTAL            9,630   11,170   10,700   10.930   13.370   17.500
Cotton Products           70        -      110      130      150      180
Rice                       5        -        0       90      170      250
Sugar                    730        -      600      850    1,000    1,200
Pulp/Paper               350        -      SOO      700      650    1.000
Steel/Equipmnt         1.140        -    1,330    1.600    2,000    2.200
SUBTOTAL            2,295    2,500    2.740    3,370    4,170    4.30
Fruits                    50        -       80       90      110      1210
Vegtables                 30        -       30       30       35       40
mat/Fiapoultry           320        -      430      450      Soo      560
Dairy Producte           100        -      130      160      210      270
Cb-mcals                 235        -      250      300      400      500
Other Ge. Ccrgo        3,680        -   5,000    6,000    7,600    9.700
: B0OAL             4,415    5,090   5,920    7.030    8,855   11.190
TIL IMPORTS           23,470   26.870  29,300  31,980   39,045   48.380
EXPORTS
Phosppate                300      300      350      360      380      400
Cotton & Products        150        -      230      200      200      200
Moles..                   50        -       50        0        0        0
Fertilizer                 -        -      160      150      150      150
Steel                      -        -      100      100      100      150
Aluminium                  -        -      100       70       50       40
Vegetables                 -        -      260      200      140       80
Fruits                     -        -      300      250      200      100
Other Gen. Cargo       1,00    1.500       450      650      950   1.200
TOTAL IMPORTS       1.700    1,800    2,000    1,980    2.170    2,320
GRMD TOTAL         25.170   28,670   31,300   33.960   41.215   50,700
1-  If dometic production falls short of expectations additional Imports of
about 1.0 . ton In 1990 and 1.5 a ton In 2000 will be needed.
2/ Delays in completion of cement plants will be likely to increse mports
by about 2.0 m tons In 1990 and 2000.
3/ Includes coal supplies needed for the planned power genertion plants.  As
these will require special terminal facilities, only the coking coal
Imports are allocated   ong existing ports. I.e.. 1.6 a tons.
4t  Includes, pyrite, alumina, manganese. sulphur.



Table 5:  Cpntfltnr  TMffic
(in 1.000 tons)
----  ---- ACTUAL -------------   ----------------------------- FiORECAST -------------------------------
r   Cargo Gu     n  -                    -                ----- Z40 -----  ----- I------5 -----  ----- 2-0 a -----
General Cargo GrouPs             Contain-   Total   Contain-  Total   Contain-   Total   Contain-  Total   Contain-  Total   Contain-  Total   Contain-
erizable   Volum   eriuable  Voluu   erizable   Volum  erriable  Volu  oerizable  Volu e   trizable  Volume  etriablg
A.  foodstuffs and Aer. Prods.            90       447       402       367      33)1        03       723      745       706      76        662       7125     655
U.  Raw Materials                         4J       127        61       147       72        422      203       431       209      460       220       490      235
C.  Consunr Goods                        100        II        81        71       71        169       169      169       19        16J      16       168      1I
0.  Machinery, Equ1pmnt                   75         6         4         1        1         14        10       14        12        14       10        14       10
TOTAL                                          661                15                 1,4N8              1,4U               1,377              1,400
TOTAL CONTAINERIZABLE                                    S4U                475               1,106               1,694              1,060              1,08 
PENETRATIOI RATE (Z)                                      25                 25                  35                  4                  50                 55
COUTAINERIZEO CARGO                                      137                119                 287                 438                530                SaU
_                                                 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
A.  foodstuffs and Ar. Prods.            63        759       478    1.431       997      2.353    1,42    2,675    1.65    3,210    2.022    4,148    2,158
S.  Raw Materials                         *2     1,753       912    2,245    1,18        3.4       1,854    3,575    2,615    4,390    2,203    5,635    2.618
C. Consur Goods                          160        87        87       112      112        235       2m       29        24       569       169       I1G      *6e
0. Machinery, Equipnnt                    45       469       164       562      253        927      417    1,034        465    1,217       544    1.4S5       655
TOTAL                                        2,608              4,31                7,131               7,95f             9*,226              l,Wl
TOTAL CONTAINEEIZABLE                                  1,661              2,441               4,038              4,134               5,362              6,441
MUETRATIOU RATE (%)                                       35                 21                  *                  16                  G5                 75
COUTAINERIZED CAUM                                       541                654               2,221               2,720              3,44U              4,6)1
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 57 -                                ANNEX VII
Page 9 of 12
equipment. The site is suitable for further expansion and the master plan,
which has been approved by the Government, includes construction of additional
general cargo facilities to meet the needs of the growing maritime traffic.
Damietta Port
21.      The City of Damietta lies immediately west of the Damietta branch of
the Nile River and is about 50 km west of Port Said and 150 km east of
Alexandria. The site selected for the construction of the port is just west
of the Damietta branch of the Nile. Phase I development of the port includes
the construction of 12 berths with an average length of 250m. The access
channel is designed for a depth of 15 m with berth depths varying from 14.5 i
to 12 m. Of the 12 berths, two will be for grain imports with a silo capacity
of 55,000 tons, three container and Ro/Ro berths and the remainder will be for
conventional general cargo and break-bulk cargo. The construction of the
first phase is to proceed in two stages: Stage I will include 6 berths and is
planned for completion by 1986. The work on Stage rI is planned to coumence
about the same time and expected to take a further two to three years. Phase
I capacity is estimated to De around 6.0 million tons when completed. Phase
II, which is expected to be implemented in 1990s will add a capacity of about
5.5 m tons.
Port of Suez
22.      The Port of Suez is located at the northern shores of the Bay of Suez
and at the southern end of the Suez Canal. It is approximately 135 km to
Cairo. The port traditionally serves the eastern trade routes and is
primarily used for wheat from Australia and some general cargo. Port rbrahim
and Adabiyah are the two principal facilities for cargo and passenger
traffic. At Port Ibrahim, the total usable quay length is about 850 m with
siz berths. Water depth varies between 7 to 9 m. At Adabiyah, only about 300
* of quay, at present, is used for handling ships. The plans for
rehabilitation works include three berths for passenger/cargo combination at
Port Ibrahim and two berths for grain and three berths for general cargo at
Adabiyah. The estimated capacity is about 3.0 milli3n tons.
Safaga
23.      Safaga is located in the center of Egypt's Red-Sea Coast and enjoys a
large and well-protected harbour. The bay offers a considerable depth of
water even at close distances to the shoreline. At present, the port consists
of a 600 m quay with a depth of 10 m providing three berths for medium size
ships. In addition, there is a lighter quay of 200 m long with a depth of 2.5
a and 115 . long 8.5 deep jetty for bulk phosphate. The plans are designed to
improve the general cargo berths and to establish a grain berth. The
phosphate jetty will also be improved. After the completion of rehabilitation
works, Safaga will have a capacity of 2.0 m tons.
D. Allocation of Forecast Traffic by Ports
24.      In terms of allocation of Egypt's maritime traffic among different
ports, the distinction between the Mediterranean ports and the Red Sea ports
is the most important. This distinction is, for the most part, dictated by



- 58 -                            ANNEX VII
Page 10 of 12
the overseas origins/destinations of the traffic. All eastbound traffic
destined to or originating from Cairo, Middle and Upper Egypt is likely to be
handled at the Red Sea ports of Suez and Safaga. In the case of such traffic,
the hinterlands of the Mediterranean ports will be confined primarily to
Alexandria, Damietta and Port Said governorates. In the case of westbound
traffic, the entire country becomes the hinterland of the Mediterranean ports,
depending on the trade-off between the additional inland transport costs and
the extra sailing costs and canal charges. In any event, the volume of
maritime traffic originating from or destined to Upper Egypt is not likely to
be substantial.
25.      Although Egypt has relatively strong trade relations with Far Eastern
countries such as India, Japan, People's Republic of China and Taiwan, the
greater part of its comercial relationships is with the Western countries.
There are no indications suggesting that this pattern will change in the
future. Therefore, the division of Egypt's total maritime traffic will likely
remain in the ratio of 80 to 20 in favor of the westbound/originating
traffic. In terms of traffic allocation between the Mediterranean ports, with
the exception of the areas immediately adjacent to each port, inland transport
costs do not play an important role. In this case, the availability of
adequate port facilities and appropriate cargo-handling equipment is a more
important factor in traffic allocation among ports. Similar observations also
apply to the Red Sea ports.
Minerals and Coal
26.      Coal traffic is presently handled at Alexandria where special
unloading and storage facilities are available. The estimated capacity is
about 3.5 million tons. Therefore, totality of coking coal imports will
continue to be received at this port. Alumina will continue to be imported
through Safaga where special unloading and storage facilities are available.
The future of phosphate trade is uncertain; however. if and when the Abu
Tartur deposits are developed, the export traffic, in all likelihood, will use
Safaga. Imports of pellets will be handled at the new mineral jetty which is
to be built at Dikheila. Coal needed for power plants will require special
terminals at plant sites.
Wheat
27.      Wheat is, at present, imported mostly in bulk. There are plans to
upgrade the handling and storage facilities in existing ports and also to
construct facilities in new ports, i.e., Damietta. In Alexandria, additional
silo capacity is under conatruction. When completed Alexandria will be able
to handle about 4.0 million tons of wheat. The first phase of Port of
Damietta will have a special berth for wheat with an annual capacity of around
2 million tons. The Ports of Suez, Safaga and Port Said also have additional
wheat-handling capacity of about 3.8 million tons. Therefore, the available
capacity will be adequate to handle Egypt's wheat imports for some years to
come, although an additional capacity may be required after 1995.
Timber
28.      Historically, Alexandria has been the main port of entry for Egypt's



- 59 -                              ANNEX VII
Page 11 of 12
timber and wood imports.  A special area in the port is reserved exclusively
for this traffic and it is expected that bulk of this traffic will continue to
be handled at Alexandria. The proposed Dikheila port project and Port of
Dmuietta include special berths for timber to help ease the congested
situation presently existing at the Port of Alexandria, and to facilitate the
movement of expected growth in this traffic.
Other
29.      Other commodities which assume some importance in Egypt's maritime
traffic are cotton, salt,molasses and edible oils. Alexandria is the
country's cotton trading center; all institutions involved in grading and
preparing cotton for export are located in this area. Therefore, most of the
cotton-related traffic will continue to use the port of Alexandria. Salt will
continue to be shipped from Port Said, since salt works are located near the
port. In molasses and edible oils, Alexandria will continue to be the major
trading center and therefore will handle the bulk of this traffic.
30.      Alexandria/Dikheila will remain to be the country's major port
facility in general cargo. The availability of conmercial institutions and
shipping agents in this area will continue to attract traffic to this port.
Much of the Delta area as well as Cairo region will continue to rely on
Alexandria/Dikheila for most of its import requirements. Damietta port will
gradually develop to be the second important port for general cargo. With the
increase after 1990's to reach about 3.6 m tons. Port Said will also continue
to play, particularly after the completion of the rehabilitation works, an
important part in handling general cargo and containers. Tables 6 and 7 show
the future traffic allocation among all ports for the years 1900 and 2000.
Table 6: Distribution of Traffic Among Ports for 1990
('000 tons)
Alexand-
ria, El                Port
Dikheila  Damietta    Said      Suez   Safaga      Total
Cement                2,700      200        900      200        -      4,000
Wheat                 2,500    1,500        600      800    1,000      6,400
Maize                 1,400       -       1,000       -         -      2,400
Flour                   700      400        500       -         -      1.600
Timber                1,000    1,000         -        -         -      2,000
Sugar                   250       50        450      100        -        850
Coal Il               1,600       -          -        -         -      1,600
Cotton                  200      130         -        -         -        330
Ores                    550       -          -                 350       900
Pellets                 200       -          -        -         -        200
Steel                   800      650        150       -         -      1,600
Meat/Fish/Poultry       210      150        200       -         -        560
Other                 5,270    2,400      1.050      750       150     9.620
Total           17,380    6,480     4,850    1,850    1,500    32,060
/1 Excludes 1.9 m ton of coal for power generation
which will require a special terminal.



- 60 -                             ANNEX VII
Page 12 of 12
Table 7: Distribution of Traffic Among Ports for 2000
('000 tons)
Alexand-
ria, El               Port
Dikhoila  Damietta    Said      Suex   Safaga    Total
Cement               2,000       500       200       500       -     3,200
Wheat                3,000    3,000        500    1,000    1,900    9,400
Flour                  600       600       500        -       300    2,000
MNaze                1,000    1,200      1,000        -        -     3,200
Timber               2,000    1,400         -         -        -     3,400
Sugar                  450       350       350        50       -     1,200
Coal                 1,900        -         -         -        -     1,900 LI
Cotton                  280      100        -         -        -       380
Ores                 1,250        -         -         -       350    1,600
Pellets                 900       -         -         -        -       900
Steel                2,000       370       250       100       -     2,720
Meat/Fish/Poultry       200      160       200        -        -       560
Other                5,440    5,100      1,600    1.500       500   14.140
Total          21,020   12,780      4,600    3,150    3,050   44,600
;1 Coal needed (6.1 m ton) for power generation will require a
special terminal, therefore, this traffic is not allocated to
existing port facilities.
31.      Because of the long delays in expanding port capacity to handle the
growing traffic, even with the assumption that all planned capacity expansions
would be implemented on schedule, the nominal port capacity will be just
adequate to meet the demand by about 1990. Equilibrium will be reached only
after completion of the second stage of Phase I of Dmietta. The projected
growth in port traffic after 1990 will require implementation of the second
phase developments both at Dikheila and Damietta and further rehabilitation of
Port Said.



-61_
AMUU VIII
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPAL REPORT OF
POET SID PET EXPARS DN AND
SHD IIBILITLTION PROJECT
Icme- stato_mmt - Te  emils Jm. 30. 1962 throub 1964
(in 3 1000)
1962        123          1964
Shp dim                                7.5        221.7      2981.4
Coemnt dues                          74.6         640.1       686.I
Storge dus                          62A0.4       3242.8      1772.4
osses                                625.6       1463.1      1726.3
Rirlag of egdpet                       -            5.4        17.4
other revemams                        54.3        806.1       795.7
ror years adjustment                   4.4        810.0        39.9
Subtotal                         7677.0      7209.2      8221.2
seretin  costs
Consuibles                            30.9         48.1        69.3
Servics                              125.7         91.4       276.1
Lebour costs                         379.4        545.2       693.8
Others                                 2.7        327.3       18.5
Prior year adjustmets                  -           90.3        76.5
Subtotal                         538.7       1109.3      1304.2
Depreciation                          21.7         67.2       2214.0
Operatiut incoe                         7116.6       6012.7      6693.0
Net no*-operating revenue             37.4        191.8       151.2
nterests oan long-toee debt            -          155.0       706.5
13t lso_                                7154.0       6049.5      6135.7



- 62 -
AIlE IX
ARAB REPUBLIC OF ZEGPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT ZX1ANSION AND
RENHABILITATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet - Yers sndina June 30. 1982 through 1984
(In I '000)
1982         1983           1934
Current assets
Cash                                  4252.1        1185.1       2904.9
Receivables                                .5      1490.1        3552.9
Othbr debtors                          613.2        492.7         361.1
Inventory                                3.9         15.5         27.1
Subtotal                          4869.7       3183.4       6846.0
Net fixed asmeta
Gross value
Land
Constructions                       5932.8       6164.5        6450.4
Equipm et                            109.9        125.7         162.7
Transport mus                        178.7        264.&         374.6
Miscellaneous                         50.3          76.6        189.0
Subtotal                          6271.7       6631.6        7176.7
Minus: depreciation                     85.9         204.8        425.8
Net fixed assets                    6185.8       6426.8        6750.9
Work in proEress                           527.2        4619.0      10396.6
Investuents                                                           120.0
Total Assets                             11582.7       14229.2      24113.7
Current lisbilities
Payables                                 -          372.8         4b0.3
Other accounts                         244.2        458.0        1349.7
Treasury account                      4201.3       2406.1        4825.5
Subtotal                          4"45.5       3236.9        6615.5
Local loans                           1310.5       5156.5        8139.6
Foreign loans                                                    3519.8
Subtotal                          1310.5       5156.5       11659.4
5826.7       5835.8       5838.8
Total liabilities                    11582.7       14229.2      24113.7
__                              -____



- 63 -
SlIM a,ma r                                         A4NE  X
suemr- u6              _nu 371w     a
Par                 rgauu     - mmfIns I im   ism?m
(Pga     ..m. .11m  bi  .191g.    0
..m * r   21161 _  new                                1163 1. ww a_ 
am -~~~~~~~~-     "am2Msn   m4    .
41m * nl@         3. n   l31    111   1116   .01;   3A          I.M   W.036
_mvumIuy             1.6M    6.3     AW      . Z.6 Z         JP    0.131   6.U3
5ul~~~~1-0   Wms Wm    L=                   &      MAN#M
SObtal      ~~~3.59    3.310   3.07    41.40   4.613   6.AR   O.35   140
O1a a"                      I-125   1.      I- .      w    lA      " _ ne
* Lug                      16.4U L        1606   16.66  3.66M. 111    6  O166 In6l.
eIw                         1.16   1.33   1.1    1.16   1.6    1.11    1.16    g.
Lam lo tmWen                D.N    1.333   L1       3.111   4L     U6    1L.3   13.UIg
at Ffl  ftolo              47.1W  461   46.4    ?x   m6.33  1U.6   IVAN   56
eD  mu                        0.3     I.6    2.JU3   4.16  e.IW    63    3.0    1nJn77
civil  1bf                  33.81 3.3 6116Jn OI    3.613   43.716
tldl                        GAK    1.3M    1.    6.711   1J*1
61ev                        0.65   1.61f   1*3   3.4    4.4101
se3ai            13.61  5.41   es"       3.4   W.71
5137 07 461             6.66    0.6     .6      .66 66          .63 16         .6
SWr v cors                    GA   eve   GAI           eae  0.10    Ti      la=     ti
Lem  ALtsIu1                  S.An   6.N    6A.6    06 ue3K    6.31    06           CAN
1mOA ARM5           46*6  MM  ?177.36  136.167         P18  NL    ULM36136.1   166.
LIAIILmESAW31
aG1u LUIILITIO
_gmu  14016                 OAIW   0.101   3.13 1. I43    6.JN    1.6   0.616  0e66
TrONW7 AemmiS               I-IN    3.3    3.SK    350  _3    2.33    .25   3.116
s_ul              3.02   3A.W    Z.7   3.373  3a.       46    3.56.  4.26
P..utp Low                  7.191  31.23   43.41   14.011  61.737  YOM63   6.81    S.1
Liul LOW                    3.M    .AW   23.60  36.    31.514  23.333 27aN   160
sOusi            "An   43.    60.161  671  16I 103.11  37.161   3.374
moiii                        46.A3  46.133  4.3   47.563  16A23  1423  3.714  67.432
TMu. si    unsm  & tun         663   mu"  117.m  O667 13.174  30.1   3LM.1   16
WI~  imws1_t                   0.6    Oil1  0o        gall   0.196   0.146   0.117   e.1D
-.90 imamami                   0.166   0.61    6.20   0.3 o 7   0.144   0.130   6.167   0.121



- 64 -
SMF AP RALT                                5MU nI
MT SIAuD PO  EZSI AN NEULMI`11 PIOCr
Pectad lUas Statmat
(Final VOW Stwtlu  My 1. Eadig Juma  30)
uinin    us     179   Im          ns    ur         ml  lZ
REVM
. Shipg No                   3.192   3.707   4.2      4.701   S00   SAN_  6.156   6J61
b. C_nt DM                    0.973   1.34   1.191   16         135     1.211   1330   1.U2
C. Stge 0as
Seply Cml_ty              2.120   2.200   2.210   2.ZII   2.120   2.00   2jWO  2Z
Omm  Cap                   2.060   ZU14   2.S5   31         4.212   5.07V    53J    6.7
less. Costem FM               0.416   0"    0.51
Total Stwasgm               3.746   4.215   468    5J0    6.3         7.11l  7J39     8J6
4. Leavsu                     2.07   2.365   2.6       3.916   44       7J.506   S3    3.
O. 0M_w Rain"a                O.S      0.920   1.04   1.16    1.312   172   116U    1.77s
Tom  D1WS1              10.756  12.      13J3  u1m    1.4    2a.14  25.    2.73
a. Ca_ssm1s                   0.102   0.103   0.14    0.12   033   0.667  0Da"    O.
-. Svcas                      0.25    0.267   01    06          0.73   2.46U   2.J45   3
c. Lao Casts                  0.378   0.971   1.2       10063   1.845   2.073   2.D3   2.43
d. ODpecIv1tm                 0.673   0.714   0.751   1.0       1.366   2J1S   3_1   3.66
*. Atm    Uh                                           0.1    0.2       3W327   0.3    1OS3
TOTAL EW SES             1.916   2A.      2J.2    3.33    4.S4   3.124   10.3U   11.190
0SrT  SurPU                       3J.6    10.225  l.3    12.366  13.1K   14.6n3  1503   152
Istut              1.450   2.816   5.16    7071   S.A21   66          JD3   OAR
IEr am                            73J31   7.3      6.164   57s   5.SI    Si7   Gin    SA
OpustIng Ras              0.=    0.1O.    0.1      03   02         0356   0CAN    OJ3
PatwNa u Nt Find Assaft



- 65 -
SYYr  APUP   L RPO                            A       XII
ARA REPUILIC OF EYPT
PmiT SAD POET EXPANSIN A  REAILIATIO  FROJECr
Poected Cash Flow Statmnt
(Fiscal Year Starting July 1. Ending Jwe 30)
19g5    1996    197    1988    19U       1990    1991    1992
O"C    F FtDS
cwrating SWplus               8.40  10.2Z5  11.308  12.946  13.886  14.690  15.066  16.882
Dqprciati  & Amrtization     0.678   0.714   0.751   1.26Z   1.615   2.943   4.537   4.721
Sshbtotl           9.5U   10.939  12.069  14.208  15.501  17.633  19.623  21.603
Loca Le                       1.J00   9.490   6.670   5.682   2.786   OW0.    0.000   0.000
D0 Low                        0.62    7.933  19.621  10.911   12.0B4   2.167  O.0O   0.0)0
otlb  Feip Loans              0.90    5.234    1.36   0.000   0.000   0.o  0o O.W       0.000
Sutoetal           330  22.627  27.677  16.670  14.870   2.167   0.0   O.000
Paid by Tresry                1.9E0   3.056   5.314   9.232  11.560  12.90  13.999  15.770
TOTAL S0UI            14.828  36a22  45.050  40.110  41.930  31.890  33.622  37.373
APPLICATI OF FUOS
Participatls                  0.360
NW Project                    0.6S5  12.562  25.217  17.342  15.831   3.423
Omel lsmts                    3.075  10.775   3.275   0.375   0.375   0.375  O.0    1.000
Subtotal           4.060  23-37  28.492  17.717  I6.Z06   3.716   0.800   1.000
Paid to Treaswy               8860  10.225  11.308  12.9U   13.86  14.690  15.086  16.812
ODet Sevice
Intst                     1.450   2.836   5.144   7.071   8.221   8.694   8.523  8O062
Principal                 0.170   0.170   0.170   2.161   3.3 3_       6   5.476   7.708
S.btsl             1.620   3.056   5.314   9.232  11.50   12.090  13.999  15.770
mbreng Capital                1.440   0.272   0.707  -0.858   1.172  -0.432   1.495  -0.516
Increasel(Decrease)
TOL  APPLICATUIO          15.960  36.890  45.821  39A37  42.824  30.U6  31.310   33.136
VARIATION F CUSN
Cash - 1guing of Yer          2.905   1.773   1.505   0.734   1.807   0.914   2.658   4.900
Csh - IincrI(bcr)            -1.12  -0.268    .M       1.073 on .0o3   1.744   2.242   4.237
Cob - End of YTear            1.7     1.505   0.734   1.807   0.914   2.658   4.900   9.137
Ozbt Service Coerg               5.877   3.579   2.269   l.S39   1.341   1.459   1.402   1.370



_ 66 -
ANNEX XIII
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT              PageIof2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents Kept in Proiect File
1. Port Said Master Plan by Bullen and Partners (UK). 1976.
2  National Port Plan by the technical Comittee on Porti (Egypt), 1976.
3. Port Said Port Development by Port of Marseilles Authority (France),
1979.
4. Port Development Policy by Frederic Harris (USA), 1979.
5. Design Criteria for Rehabilitation and Modernization of Port Said Port
by PRC Harris, March 1980.
6. National Transport Study, Phase 11 and III by IEDECO (Holland) in
Association with PACER (Egypt), 1981.
7. Port Said Container Terminal, Evaluation of Stability and Pile Design
(four volumes) by Norconsult (Norway), October 1982.
8. Port Said Container Termdnal Study by CE Maguier (USA), 1982.
9. New Port Development, Port Said, by Bullen and Partners (UK), 1982.
10. Brochure on Damietta tort, 1983.
11* Inland Transport of Containers in Egypt. Final Report, by PACER
Consultants, Egypt, January 1984.
12. PRC's Technical Proposal, April 1984.
13. Contract between PSPA and PRC Engineering Inc. (UK) to Prepare Design
and Tender Documents, September 17, 1984.
14. PRC's Inception Report, October 1984.
15. PRC's Report on Soil Conditions (two volumes), December 1984.
16. PRC's Finl Soil Investigation Report, January 1985.
17. PRC's  Interim Report (Preliinay Engineering. three volume). Januay
1985.



- 67 -
ANNE  XIII
Page 2 of 2
18. PSPA's Anmual Reports 1981, 1982 and 1983.
19.  Ship Movemet in Port Said Port, 1981, 1982 and 1983.
20. PSPA's Balance Sheets and Final Accounts 1981 to 1984.
21. CTOC's Balance Sheets and Final Accounts 1983 and 1984.
22. PSPA's Training Program 1984-1985.
23. PSPA's Assets.
24. PSPA's and CLUC's tariffs.
25. Traffic Statistics for the Ports of Port Said and Alexandria.
26. Law Creating PSPA 1980.
27. Law Governing Public Enterprises in Egypt 1983.
28. Law Creating the Publlc Organization for Maritime Transport (PONT),
1983.
29. Law Creating CTOC, 1984.



- 68 -
ANNEX XIV
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                           Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SAID PORT EXPANSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACTION PLAN
The Borrower, with the assistance of the services of experts as
required, shall carry out the following by the date specified subject to any
modifications wbich may be agraed upon from time to tiam between the Borrower
and the Dank:
I.       Port Operations and Management
(a) Contract a port operations expert, by December 1985, to carry
out a study of port operations and managemnt, under terns of
reference acceptable to the Dank.
(b) Prepare, with the assistance of the port operations expert, an
inception report speciftying the organizational, operational and
manpower requirements of the Borrover by December 1986.
Cc) Appoint staff required and initiate the training program
approved by the Dank by June 1986.
Cd) Furnish to the Dank, by Jun 1986, copies of the expert's report
making recomendations for a system of establishing port
statistics and performace indicators.
Ce) furnish to the Dank, by September 1986, copies of the expert's
report reviewing cargo handling methods and making
recommendations for improvements and tho equipment required for
the container terminal.
(f) Implem_nt, by January 1987, the recomnedations of the study for
the new syste of establishing port statistics and performance
indicators.
(g) Furnish to the Bank, by February 1987, copies of the expert's
report making recommendations for revisions to port operational
and management regulations.
(h) Furnish to the Bank, by June 1987, copies of the final expert's
report containing a summary of the actions taken, the training
provided and the results of the study.
It.     Financial Nanageimet.
(a)  Contract a financial expert, by December 1985, to carry out a
study of the financial manaDgeet of the Borrower, under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank.
(b)  Furnisb to the Dank, by Nay 1986, copies of the report makig
recomundations on improvements to the Borrower's financial
*Dagemnt systems and manpower requiramnts.



ANNEX XIV
-69-                                Pagd 2 of 3
Cc)  Reviev with the Bank, by June 1986, the recotmendations made in
the report referred to in 11(b) above.
(d) FinaLize, by July 1986, an action program, acceptable to the
Bank to implement the recormendations.
(e) Recruit the staff required to operate the new system, by August
1986.
(f) Irplement the program, including training, by August 1986 and
furnish to the Bank, by December 1987, a report s*urizing the
actions taken an the results of the program.
Ill.     Customs Procedures and the Collection of Storage Due.
)                (a)  Make proposals to the Guarantor's Customs Department, by June
1987, on appropriate clearance procedures for containerized
cargo.
(b) Implement a system of direct collection of the Borrower's
storage dues by June 1987.
IV.      Revaluation of PorrtAssets and Settlement Arrears
(a) Approval and incorporation of new values for assets by March
1987.
(b) Prepare a plan to settle rent arrears and furnish such plan to
the Bank by March 1987.
(c) Take measures, by December 1987, to settle outstanding accounts
within 60 days of billing date.
V.       Cost Accounting
(a) Contract the services of an expert in cost accounting, by June
1986, co carry out the study on the cost accounting system of
the Borrower, under terms of reference accepeable to the Bank.
(b) Furnish to the Bank, by August 1986, copies of the expert's
report making recomendations on necessary changes and
improvements to the Borrower's cost accounting system and
proposed manpower requirements.
(c)  Review with the Bank, by December 1986, the recomiendations made
in the report referred to in IV (b) &bove.
(d) Finalize, by March 1987, an action program, acceptable to the
Bank, to implement the recoumendations.



ANNEX XIV
Page 3 of 3
-70-
(e) Recruit the staff required to operate the new system and
implement the recommendations including the training program by
September 1987.
(f) Furnish to the Bank, by December 1987, copies of the final
report by the cost accounting expert containinAg a sumary of the
actions taken by the Borrover to implement an appropriate cost
accounting system.
VI.      Tariffs
(a) Contract a port pricing expert, by December 1987, to carry out
the tariff study, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
(b) Furnish to the Bank for its comment, by September 1988, the
expert's draft report making reco_medations for a cost-based
tariff system including the structure and level of the proposed
tariffs, and storage charges, the method of collection and
proposals for the application of a cost-based tariff system to
other publicly owned entities providing cargo handling and
storage services ae the Port of Port Said.
Cc) Discuss vith the Bank, by October 1988, the proposals for a
system of cost-based tariffs and any other recommendations made
by the expert.
(d) Prepare and furnish to the Bank, by December 1988, proposels and
measures for the implementation of a system of cost-based
tariffs.
(e) Implement the cost-based tariff system for the Borrover by
February 1989.



Af  r  1)  rt r     f   I  A   N   f  A   A              S   E  A
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYRT
PORT SAID PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT                        c      J                                            '>
TRANSPORTAtION  SYSTEM
MAIN PORTS
4. P~~~~~~~~qcIpo.I  . ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ 1 P'
4. 0O* SWt
-R  Fl._. ; r.d e
=c.a Ce. gso
....           *;--f .-Coagg.I                                 '-.   r'1             S
e aDZ Z,"_ R '.                         \A_ 



1SR11622 R
Medirenfnean
_4   - *-.w_   *   w   J---                          -                                - -    -
T  ; PORT FOI4AD 
OM WWUC OF ''W
PORT SAID PORT REHABIUTATION PROJECT .
Cajw   W  U-dwCa c                                -             C-                                                                      I
M#dffme.rnan                  ___mFv
sea                    - A
:  '~~~~~~' ~~PORT SAID
* ftd  LW#  kx y                                                                                     __________________
e0 m gwkx
0"0 W" Ur* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~H



