Documeent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No4. P-3916-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 24.7 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
IDecember 18, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              K 2.00
US$0.50           K 1.00
(The US Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate
shown above is the rate that prevailed at
the beglnning of November 1984.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)              2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      =     0.624 miles
1 sq kilometer (kC2) =      0.386 sq miles
I kilogram (kg)       =     2.2046 pounds
I metric ton (ton)    =     1,000 kg = 2,204.6 pounds
I liter               =     1.057 US quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
BOZ      =     Bank of Zambia
CFB      =     Commercial Farmers Bureau
PIC      =     Project Implementation Committee
PIU      =     Project Implementation Unit
GR'!           Government of the Republic of Zambia
KFC            Kwacha Fund Committee
MAWD     =     Ministry cf Agriculture and Water Development
MOF      =     Xinistry of Finance
Namboard =     National Agricultural Marketing Board
NCDP           National Commission for Development Planning
PCUs     -     Provincial Cooperative Unions
FISCAL YEAR
GRZ: January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AGICULTURAL REARILT&TION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:         Republic of Zambia.
Executing
Agency:         Bank of Zambia
Beneficiaries:    Commercial and eucrgent farmers
Amount:           SDR 24.7 million (US$25 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Project
Description:      The project would further Zambia's economic recovery and
diversification efforts by supplying critical agricul-
tural inputs needed to restore production levels and
establish the foundation for future production
increases. It would support policy and institutional
reforms in the agricultural sector. Specifically, the
Project would provide farm machinery and implements,
agro-chemicals, miscellaneous items, e.g., agricultural
hand tools, packaging materials for grains, etc.,
improved seeds, small-scale irrigation pumps and
fittings, etc., and about 27 man-months of consultant ,
services to carry out an agricultural marketing study.
Benefits
and Risks:        The Project would help restore the productivity and
efficiency of the agricultural sector, thereby making
Zambia more self-sufficient in agricultural products. It
would support the country's strategy of output and export
diversification, improve the balance of payments and lay
the groundwork for employment expansion.
The main risks are delays or failure to carry out the
envisaged policy and institutional reforms; inadequate
availability of complementary inputs not provided by the
project, particularly fertilizers; and recurrence of
drought. The Government continues to demonstrate the
political will to implement unpopular measures, and in
view of the difficult economic prospects facing the
country, it is realistic to expect that the reforms
supported by this project will be implemented. Planned
efforts to increase domestic production and the expected
continued availability of bilateral support for imports
should reduce the likelihood of serious shortages of
fertilizer. Research is underway to develop more drought
resistant crop varieties and farming techniques.
This document has a rsricrtd distnibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of ,
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost
Local   Foreign    Total       z
USS Million
Farm Machinery                   3.9      36.0       39.9     55.2
Spare Parts                      1.2      10.2       11.4     15.8
Agro-Chemicals                   2.0       17.4      19.4     26.8
Miscellaneous                    0.2        1.2       1.4      1.9
Consultancy                                0.2       0.2       0.3
Total                         7.3      65.0       72.3    100.0
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total      z
US$ million
IDA                               -       25.0      25.0      34.5
African Development Bank          -       23.4       23.4     32.4
Swiss Government                           4.8       4.8       6.6
USAID                                      5.0        5.0      6.9
CIDA (Canada)                              6.8       6.8       9.4
Trading Houses                   7.3        -         7.3     10.2
Total                        7.3      65.0      72.3    100.0
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year                   85    86    87    88
UsS Mlllion
Annual                           4.2   10.6  7.7   2.5
Cumulative                       4.2   14.8  22.5  25.0
Rate of Return:                  59 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:          Report No. 5050-ZA of December 12, 1984
No. IBRD 11631/R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 24.7 million (approximately US$25
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance an Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project. Part of the proceeds of the credit would be
channelled through the Bank of Zambia to trading houses which would import
the items to be financed by the credit. The African Development Bank is
expected to provide a loan of US$23.4 million equivalent, the Swiss
Government a grant of US S4.8 million equivalent and CIDA a g-ant of US$6.8
million equivalent to help finance the Project. USAID is financing US$5.0
million of the inputs to be imported under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. This part is
based on that report's findings. Country data sheets are attached as Annex
I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 40 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises.  Copper mining provides o-er 90 percent of foreign exchange
earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Much economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a sharp decline in copper prices in 1975. Zambia's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1982, were 60 percent
below the average for the early 1970s. In 1982, copper prices reached
their lowest level in real terms in the post-World War II era; they
recovered somewhat in 1983 and early 1984, but have fa'len sharply in
recent months and are now below the depressed levels of 1982. Real GDP has
been in a general downward trend since 1975, declining on an average by
about one percent per year. With population growing by 3.3 percent per



- 2 -
annum, real GDP per capita is 25 percent lower than in 1974. GNP per
capita was estimated at US$640 in 1982, using the World Bank Atlas
methodology, but is now much lower as a result of major devaluations of the
Kwacha in 1983 and 1984.
5.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82. The deficit was reduced sharply to 9 percent of GDP in
1983, however, and is expected to be in this range for 1984. Nevertheless,
the volume of imports has declined steadily and is now 75-80 percent below
its level in 1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe
underutilization of capacity and, especially in the mining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements which has
contributed directly to a declining trend in copper production and
exports. The large current account deficits led to heavy external
borrowing, accumulation of arrears on import payments, and a draw-down of
international reserves. At the end of 1983, Zambia's total external
liabilities stood at almost US$4.5 billion, including drawings from the IMF
and about USS500 million in overdue commercial payments. By comparison,
merchandise exports amounted to somewhat over US$1 billion.
6.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the pasL., mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976.
Deficit financing absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and
contributed to a sharp rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per
annum during 1976-78 and 12 percent per annum in 1979-82. Price increases
have accelerated in 1983 and 1984 to about 20 percent per annum, reflecting
the decontrol of prices in December 1982 and the devaluations of the Kwacha
during the past two years.
7.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, other factors over which the Government has little or no control
include transport difficulties in neighboring countries on which Zambia is
dependent for the movement of foreign trade, severe droughts which for
three consecutive years have necessitated substantial food imports, and,
last but not least, the fact that copper mining in Zambia is past its peak,
and that for technical reasons, such as sinking deeper shafts and tapping
less rich ore bodies, higher costs have to be incurred to maintain past
levels of production.
8.        Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties. The main
deficiencies in economic policies were that: {i) pricing and subsidy
policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of the agricultural
producer, depressing the latter's income and incentive to produce for the
market; also, controlled industrial prices led to low profitability in the
manufacturing sector and a decrease in resources available for
reinvestment; (ii) tax incentives and low interest rates led to a pattern
of capital intensive investment; (iii) exchange rate and tariff policies
have encouraged the use of artificially cheap imported raw materials and
other inputs and discouraged the use of local materials. As a result, a
highly capital and import-intensive productive structure was created that
proved to be very vulnerable to prolonged declines in the availability of



foreign exchange. Also, little progress was made in developing the use of
local resources and diversifying production and exports.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
9.        Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In the long
run, therefore, the copper industry cannot be counted on to provide the
domestic and external resources required for development. In the absence
of policies and programs to develop new sources of income, employment and
foreign exchange, Zambia may expect a drastic fall in living standards and
social well-being by the turn of the century. However, Zambia has the
potential to develop alternative sources of income, employment, and
exports. The greatest potential is in agriculture, where there are
opportunities for import substitution (cotton, oilseeds, livestock, grains,
sugar, forestry products, and fish) and for exports (beef, cotton, coffee,
tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start is made with
agricultural development, possibilities will be created for agro-based
industries.
10.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that financial balance in the economy be restored
first. As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a
major role to play. However, it is essential that previous levels of
efficiency are restored to make the industry profitable again and
competitive in world markets. Without a rehabilitated copper industry, the
Government's diversification effort would fail for lack of financial
resources. For this reason, the Bank recently approved an Export
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project which aims to increase the
efficiency of the mining industry and make it competitive again by
international standards. This project was also accompanied by appropriate
macro-economic and sector policy changes aimed at restructuring and
diversifying the rest of the economy in order to create the conditions for
developing new sources of income, exports and employment.
11.       The Government, with Bank assistance, has developed a package of
policies and measures to bring about better economic management and a
*          policy environment conducive to healthy economic growth and
diversification. The Government's economic restructuri-g policies may be
summarized as follows:
- Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which prices are
responsive to market forces;
- Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops. The National Agricultural Marketing Board
(Namboard), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;
- Improving planning and budgetary procedures to shift resources
to productive investment.



4
- Using wages and interest rate policies to reverse
past trends of increasing consumption and declining
investment;
- Improving the management of foreign debt;
- Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil; and
- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy.
12.       In recent months, the Government has made commendable progress in
translating the above policies into tangible action. It has introduced
institutional reforms to improve economic management and has introduced a
number of changes in economic policies which constitute the beginning of-an
integrated program of short-term financial stabilization and longer-term
growth and diversification. It is a program in which actions developed in
cooperation with the IMF and the Bank complement and reinforce one another.
13.       A program to restore financial stability was set in motion in
1983. A one-year stand-by arrangement was agreed with the IMF, and a debt
rescheduling agreement was reached with the members of the Paris Club. As
part of the IMF program, the Kwacha was devalued by 20 percent in January
1983, and, in July 1983, the value of the Kwacha was linked to a variable
basket of currencies. Since then, the Government has adjusted the exchange
rate in a gradual manner such that it is now more than 50 percent lower
than at the end of 1982. Because the Government has been successful in
holding wage increases to considerably less tk'n rises in the cost of
living, it has maintained the benefits of devaluation in real terms, which
has improved the competitiveness of exports. Further measures taken under
the IMF program included increasea in interest rates and tough budgetary
measures (including substantial reductions in subsidies and a cap on new
government employment) aimed at reducing the Government's domestic
borrowing. The program succeeded in reducing the cur,-ent account deficit
to less than 10 percent of GDP and domestic bank borrowing by the
Government to less than 2 percent of GDP. A follow-up standby arrangement
was agreed with the IMF in July 1984 and is currently being implemented,
although with increasing difficulty due to recent declines in the copper
price (para. 4). Maturities due to Paris Club members in 1984 have been
rescheduled as part of the current IMF program.
14.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. Other recent measures with significant long-term impact are
real increases in producer prices for agricultural crops, freer marketing
arrangements for the livestock sector and complete decontrol of most
industrial prices. Over the last three years, producer prices for most
agricultural crops have been increased considerably in real terms. This
has already led to a significant increase in the area under cultivation.



-5-
If St had not been for the severe droughts in the region in the last two
years, this would have led to substantial increases in production.
In a further attempt to allow market forces to play a more important role
In the economy, the Government abolished, in December 1982, the control of
all industrial prices (except for three essential commodities: wheat
flour, maize flour and candles). Since then, prices for a wide range of
commodities have increased, thereby helping to restrain domestic demand,
while increasing the profitability of firms. Most recently, the price of
wheat flour and bread has also been decontrolled.
e           15.       As part of its economic recovery plans, the Government presented
a three-year expenditure program to the Consultative Group for Zambia in
May 1984. The Consultative Group strongly endorsed the Government's new
policy initiatives, as well as its expenditure program which emphasizes
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, increased capacity utilization
and selected investments to diversify the economy, especially in
agriculture. As a result, the Group indicated that its members are
prepared to increase their assistance to Zambia. In addition, various
members indicated that in view of Zambia's serious financial position, they
are converting their assistance programs to a grant basis and are prepared
to make assistance available in the form of quickly disbursing loans and
grants.
16.       The Government and the Bank continue to cooperate In the further
development of policies and measures that would lead to diversification of
production and exports. In the foreseeable future, this may lead to sector
lending for industry through which the Government and the Bank are expected
to agree on further actions of economic reform, covering such subjects as
tariff policies, export incentives, investment criteria and improvements in
the management of public enterprises.
Creditworthiness
17.       Over the past two years the Government has taken important
measures towards financial stabilization and implementing a program of
economic restructuring. More needs to be done, but there are encouraging
signs that the Government is willing and capable to take further
appropriate action. There is, however, reason for considerable concern
about Zambia's capacity to service new loans on conventional terms. At
today's copper prices, scheduled service on existing external debt will
remain at about 40 percent of export earnings for the next three years. In
addition, considerable payments are due to the IMF, and it would be
desireable to reduce Zambia's pipeline of commercial payment arrears and
short-term borrowings. Even with ar. expected increase in the price of
copper, Zambia will continue to experience grave difficulties in meeting
its debt-service obligations. For a number of years it will be necessary
for the government to continue its financial stabilization policies in
cooperation with the IMF, to seek relief through further debt rescheduling,
and, in addition, to obtain a significant increase in the proportion of
non-project lending available from external sources. In the meantime, the
Government should avoid as much as possible borrowing on commercial terms,
and additional borrowing should carry sufficiently long grace periods and
maturities.



-6-
18.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government has made a promising start
and is fully committed to take the necessary further steps towards economic
reform. Assuming successful economic policies, careful financial
management and an improving world economy, Zambia's debt service ratio
iuld decline to about 20 percent in ten to twelve years.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
19.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 11 credits to
Zambia, totalling about U$730 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities vn the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and five
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture and forestry, six loans and
four credits have been for industrial forest plantations, livestock,
commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee production and
smallholder dairy development. Agricultural projects in the Eastern and
Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have
assisted Zambia's urban development program, copper mining and, through the
Development of Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and
industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the
Government improve its planning and project preparation.
20.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$67 million in nine projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one each in
the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production, textiles and copper
production. The latest IFC investment was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 31, 1983. This investment (US$18.7 million equivalent, of
which US$7.5 million is for IFC's own account) is helping to finance an
expansion and rehabilitation of the Inter-Continental Hotel in Lusaka and
rehabilitation of the Musi-o-Tunya Hotel in Livingstone.
21.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been
experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by
the Bank loan. Most seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for tne lagging
implementation of projects are ineffective project management and
inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
Third Highway Project.



- 7 -
22.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as exrtcted,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the period FY77-81, the
disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over 25
percent per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or the
21.5 -ercent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7
percent) and for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To alleviate the
problem, provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA makes advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and when the funds should be made
available are being prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their
need to allow implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan
for these expenditures. As of December 1983, IBRD loans disbursed and
outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's total medium and long-term
debt disbursed and outstanding.
23.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase economic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources to
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, of which the proposed project is the first, will
focus on developing agriculture and industry, which are, respectively, the
sectors with the best potential for production and export growth and for
employment creation. The Group's strategy also gives priority to programs
to increase the use of indigenous energy resources and to raise the
efficiency of transportation services.  Emphasis will be given to
rehabilitation and maintenance, rather than expansion, of infrastructure
and Bank Group assistance- is expected to include a significant proportion
of quick-disbursing resources. Support for addressing the longer term
development constraints, e.g., education, population, health, etc., is also
part of the strategy. Policy and institutional reform programs in each of
the sectors, as well as on the macroeconomic level, are being agreed with
the Government.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structural Features
24.       The development of Zambia's agriculture has remained far below
potential.   Of the estimated 60 million ha of arable land, only about 12
million or 20% is currently cultivated, even though the climate is



-8-
generally favorable for the cultivation of a wide range of crops. Maize is
by far the most important crop, representing over 70 percent of the value
of marketed agricultural output. Other significant crops are cassava,
millet, sorghum, groundnuts, sunflower, cotton, tobacco, sugar cane, rice,
soyabeans and a variety of legumes and vegetables. In addition, the
country has a sizeable number of the various types of livestock. Cattle
are a major source of cash income and offer a considerable potential for
animal draft power.
25.       The sector is acutely dualistic.  On the one extreme are about
460,000 traditional farmers, some 76 percent of the estimated 600,000 farm
households, who cultivate an average of slightly less than 2 ha. They use
family labor and simple hand tools, and produce for subsistence purposes
with only occasional marketable surpluses. On the other extreme is a small
but highly mechanized and productive group of comercial farmers, compris-
ing about 4 percent of the farm households. These farmers produce about 40
percent of the maize and 55 percent of the other marketed agricultural
products. This dualism has been slightly moderated in recent years by the
emergence of a class of market-oriented smallholder farmers, numbering
about 125,000, or 20 percent of the farm households. These emergent
farmers cultivate an average of 3 ha, using mainly hand tools and family-
labor, but they also employ oxen and hired tractors and modest amounts of
purchased seasonal inputs, especially fertilizers. Their marketed output
consists primarily of cereal grains, such as maize.
Objectives and Achievements
26.       Zambia's agricultural objectives have historically aimed at
diversifying output; attaining self-sufficiency in staple food crops,
especially maize; spreading development to all parts of the country with a
view to narrowing the rural-urban income gap and redressing regional
disparities; and ensuring low-cost food for the urban population. Little
progress has been made since Independence towards achieving these goals
however. The country continues to import agricultural commodities that
could be produced locally. Zambia did become a net exporter of maize in
the mid-1970s but soon reverted to being a chronic net importer and its
cereal self-sufficiency ratio declined from 102 during 1974 to 79 in the
early 1980s.
27.       The growth rate of agricultural output has been on a steadily
declining trend since the mid-1970s. During 1970-74, total production grew
by 2.1 percent annually but since then, the s'ctor's growth has slowed,
averaging 1.8 percent during 1974-79 and only   percent during 1979-83.
This compares with a population growth rate of 3.1 percent per annum during
the period. The performance of the market-oriented subsector, which
depends heavily on imported inputs, has been particularly disappointing.
28.       The sector's contribution to the country's diversification effort
has been minimal. Its share of real GDP has declined from about 13.7
percent at Independence to 11.5 percent in 1982, and no significant new
export commodities have appeared. Likewise, its impact on the urban-rural
income gap and on regional disparities has been disappointing. The terms
of trade have deteriorated by about 28 percent against rural areas compared
to 1970, and the three ecologically better endowed ane historically more



-9-
developed provinces have continued to account for over 90 percent of the
marketed farn products.
29.       The reasons behind the poor results are many and include external
factors, especially the shortage of foreign exchange and severe droughts.
However, the adverse impact cf such external shocks and natural calamities
has been greatly exacerbated by a number of internal constraints stemming
mainly from inappropriate pricing policies, inefficient produce marketing
and input distribution systems, poor research and extension services, and
inadequate tillage power.
Pricing Policies
30.       Producer prices of the major crops, notably maize, are subject to
Government control and, until two years ago, were kept substantially below
the border-price equivalents, thus imposing an implicit tax on producers.
Retail prices, at the same time, were set below costs, thereby resulting in
mounting subsidies to consumers. This poliey was drastically modified
towards the end of 1982, when the principle of economic pricing was
adopted. Retail prices were decontrolled, except for maize (although the
maize price was increased substantially) and wheat products, and producer
prices were increased to border price levels. Wheat product prices were
decontrolled in November 1984. By the latter half of 1984 rapid currency
devaluation had restored somewhat the gap between domestic and
border-prices.
31.       Although significant improvements have been made, the country's
agricultural pricing policy continues to entail a number of adverse
features. These include: a price structure for maize and fertilizer that
does not permit sufficient regional differentials or full cost recovery
and a defective price setting methodology. This has led to inefficient
resource allocation and has constrained agricultural development by
ignoring inter- and intra-regional comparative advantages. Also, because
of the inadequate price levels, the Government has had to subsidize
transport and marketing costs.
32.       The subsidies on maize have tended to encourage its consumption
at the expense of the unsubsidized traditional crops such as cassava and
sorghum. This has acted against the interest of an estimated 60 percent
of the farmers for whom, due to climate and soil conditions, the
cultivation of maize is marginal compared to these other traditional
crops. The subsidies on fertilizer have benefited the small proportion of
farmers who have sufficient resources to cultivate a large acreage and who
find the available technical packages involving fertilizer suited to their
farming methods. In addition, by not allowing full-cost recovery, the
pricing policy has: fostered inefficiencies among the marketing agencies
(Namboard and Cooperatives); denied these agencies the opportunity to
generate funds needed to develop essential facilities such as storage; and
inhibited the growth of private enterprise which can survive only if
allowed to recoup full costs. At negotiations, the Borrower submitted to
IDA an action program, for implementation within twenty four months of
credit effectiveness, to adjust the consumer price of maize and the price
of fertilizer sufficiently to cover Namboard's and the Cooperatives' full
cost within a regionally differentiated price structure.



- 10 -
33.       The method used to determine producer prices is unsatisfactory.
These prices are derived from estimated average production costs for the
year immediately preceding the cropping season, based on a singe model
farm budget for the whole country. The data used have little empirical
basis and the resultant prices are not related to prevailing or anticipated
supply-demand imbalances, or to foreseeable changes in incremental
production costs. No account is taken of the trading opportunities open to
the country as reflected by border prices. At negotiations, the Borrower
agreed to formulate, and not later than six months after credit
effectiveness adopt, a pricing methodology for setting producer prices,
which, inter alia, takes into consideration border price equivalents and
full production cost. with Namboard assuming the role of the buyer and
seller of last resorr (para. l(c), Schedule 3, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Produce Marketing and Input Distribution
34.       Produce marketing and input distribution in Zambia play a
critical role in the development of agriculture because only when a
reliable marketing system is assured can the traditional farmers be
expected regularly to produce a marketable surplus. Because of their
importance to the sector, the efficiency of maize marketing and fertilizer
distribution is crucial to the welfare of both producers and consumers.
The marketing and distribution functions for these commodities are handled
almost exclusively by Namboard and the Cooperatives.
35.       Namboard: Namboard was established in 1969.  Its main responsibi-
lities are to ensure market outlets in the maize surplus regions, adequate
supply in the deficit regions, and the availability of fertilizers in all
parts of the country. Following its establishment, it rapidly expanded its
functions and geographical coverage becoming, in the process, an unwieldy
and inefficient organization. Government policies have compelled it to buy
at higher prices than it is allowed to sell at, and to expand its
operations over all the country irrespective of the financial
implications. Consequently, Namboard has been running heavy deficits,
rising from an annual average of K 19.2 million during 1970-74 to K 87.5
million during 1980-82. These deficits have had to be covered by budgetary
subsidies.
36.       During the last few years, the Government has introduced measures
to reduce Namboard's operating losses. These measures include: increasing
Namboard's resale prices to equ&I the prices it pays to producers for
maize, hiving-off its intra-provincial operations and handing them over to
the Provincial Cooperative Unions (PCUs); and reducing Namboard's staff.
Namboard's main functions are now limited to purchasing maize from PCUs in
surplus provinces, or importing it, and selling it to PCUs in the deficit
provinces; importing fertilizers and distributing them to PCUs; and
maintaining maize security reserves. Consequently, Namboard has become a
more manageible operation and has reduced its staff from a total of about
6,000 in 1979 to about 2,000 in 1983. Subsidies have fallen from K 109.7
million in 1980 to K 84.3 million in 1982, with a further estimated
reduction to K 35.8 million in 1983.



- 11 -
37.       In part, Namboard's problems have been solved by shifting the
burden to the PCUs. This is evident from the fact that subsidies to the
PCUs increased from K 30.6 million in 1981 to K 57.8 million in 1982, and
that the consolidated totals (for both Namboard and the Cooperatives) rose
from K 100.1 million to K 141.1 million between the two years.
38.       Provincial Cooperative Unions (PCUs).  There are nine PCUs in
Zambia, one for each province. Their major functions are: purchasing,
collecting, transporting, storing and selling farm produce, and
distributing farm inputs, notably fertilizers. Partly as a result of the
Government pricing policy, all the PCUs have been operating at substantial
losses and depend heavily on budgetary subsidies. While potentially
capable of playing a significant role in the agricultural sector, the PCUs
will have to be strengthened financially. The adjustment of the consumer
price of maize and the price of fertilizers to allow PCU's sufficient
margins to cover full cost, as agreed at negotiations, will help to achieve
this result (see para. 32)
39.       The transfer of Namboard's intra-provincial functions to the PCUs
is a move in the right direction, but it has led to a rapid expansion of
their operations without a corresponding improvement in their managerial
and operational capabilities. All PCUs suffer from an inability to attract
and retain competent staff, from weak management, and from inadequate
capital.   Programs are urgently needed to improve their operational and
financial management. This should be done through staff training,
intensified supervision and the introduction of sound financial and
operational systems. At negotiations, the Borrower agreed to initiate a
study not later than six months after credit effectiveness with a view to
identifying and implementing measures to improve the level of efficiency of
the PCUs (Part B, Schedule 2 and para. 1(b), Schedule 3, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
40.       Role of the Private Sector: The private sector plays the major
role in the marketing of all agricultural products other than maize, and in
the distribution of all agricutural inputs other than fertilizers.
However, maize and fertili7.rs account for the major part of agricultural
marketing and the input distribution trade, and exclusion of private
traders from these two commodities severely restricts the role of the
private sector. In view of the urgent need to improve efficiency in
agricultural marketing and input distribution, the private sector should be
permitted to participate in these areas. At negotiations, the Borrower
submitted to IDA an action program, for implementation within twenty-four
months of credit effectiveness, which would allow private traders to enter
into maize marketing and fertilizer distribution. Under this action
program, MAWD will carry out a marketing study, provided for under the
project, and implement the recommendations of the study with regard to ways
and means of increasing the efficiency of the cooperatives and Namboard in
maize marketing and fertilizer distribution with participation of the
private sector acting as an essential spur to that end (Part B, Schedule 2
and paras. 1(b), 3 , 4, and 5, Schedule 3, draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 12 -
Research and Extension
41.       Insufficient research attention has been given to crops grown
mainly by smallholder and subsistence farmers (e.g., cassava, sorghum and
millet) and the availabie technical packages are largely unsuited to their
needs. Extension services have been geared uainly to the co_ ercial
farmers, and extension efforts have been seriously hampered by inadequate
funding and a shortage of qualified and experienced staff. As a result the
average crop yields among traditional farmers have remained very low. The
Government is now preparing a long-term program to improve research and
extension services, under a possibly Bank-supported project, and to
re-orient these services to the needs of smallholders.
42.       Partly due to poor technical guidance and weak extension
services, Zambia consumes  an extraordinarily high amount of fertilizers
for a country of its agricultural size. The Government has obtained
bilateral assistance to study the problem and identify possible solutions.
At negotiations, the Borrower agreed that this study would be undertaken
within six months following credit effectiveness and its recomendations
implemented within twelve months of credit effectiveness in consultation
with IDA (para. 1(a) and 3(a), Schedule 3; draft Development Credit
Agreemer.t). On the other hand, imports of various agro-chemicals and
produce and input packaging materials have fallen below essential levels
because of the shortage of foreign exchange. This is having an adverse
effect on agricultural production among the market-oriented farmers. The
proposed project would make funds available for these and similar inputs.
Agricultural Credit
43.       The majority of farmers have no effective demand for credit in
view of the unavailability of suitable technical packages. However, the
shortage of bridging funds to finance produce and input purchases by
Namboard and the PCUs is an important problem, stemming primarily from the
Government's budgetary contraints. This has in turn led to long delays in
paying the farmers and has caused cash flow problems down the marketing
chain, thereby artificially increasing the need for credit at the farm
level. Nonetheless, the majority of the commercial farmers face no serious
difficulties in obtaining credit from commercial banks and parastatal
lending institutions.
Tillage Power
44.       Inadequate tillage power (in terms of labor, animal draft and
machine power) is a serious contraint on agricultural development in
Zambia and reliance by smallholders on the hand hoe as the only available
means of cultivation is one of the major causes of the under-utilization of
land. This constraint is exacerbated by the fact that rains are confined
to a short period of four to five months, thus necessitating hurried land
preparation to avoid late planting.    Labor shortages for land cultivation
are, therefore, a major problem during the peak seasons. The situation is
being further aggravated by the exodus of the young and able males from the
rural to the urban areas. Apart from restricting the cropped area, these
constraints influence the type and range of crops grown, leading farmers to
prefer the less labor and power intensive crops. This is one of the
factors underlying the sharp decline in the production of crops such as
groundnuts and tobac..o.



- 13 -
45.       Efforts to lessen these constraints have focussed on promoting
the use of animal and tractor power. The use of draft animals is limited
by tsetse infestation, inadequate facilities for training the animals, and
a shortage of ox-drawn implements. The use of oxen is also rendered less
attractive by the fact that labor requirements for weeding and harvesting
still remain, and, unlike with tractors, the farmer has to await the onset
of the rains to soften the ground before ploughing.
46.       During the last thirty years, tractor power has played an
important role in expanding the cultivated area and in ensuring the
supply of marketable surpluses. But since the mid-1970s, the acute
shortage of foreign exchange has compelled the farmers to defer essential
repairs and replacements. Tractor imports declined from an annual average
of 840 units during 1970-74 to 490 units during 1975-80, and to 230 units
during 1981-82. Imports of essential spare parts has similarly been
curtailed as a result of which it is estimated that about 40Z of the
2,500 operable tractor units now in the country are out of action. Because
of frequent breakdowns due to inadequate maintenance, the operable units
cannot cope with more than 40 ha/year each.
47.       Virtually all of the medium and large-scale farmers as well as
many of the emergent farmers have sufficient farming skills and a fairly
suitable technical package with which to respond quickly to the recent
changes in policies and institutional environment. Insufficient tillage
power alone circumscribes the area these farmers can plough, plant and weed
during the critically short cropping season. The proposed project would
help to finance rehabilitation of the repairable stock of tractors and
associated implements, plus some replacement, as well as the procurement of
animal drawn implements.
48.       A Government tractor fleet, now consisting of abolut 280
operational units, has been offering hire services to smallholders who,
because of their limited financial resources and the small size of their
cultivated plots, are unable to individually own tractors. Also, farmers
and other individuals who own tractors are free to offer services at
whatever price the market can bear. The Government services have been
running at a loss because the charges are fixed below full cost. This has
inhibited proper maintenance thereby widening the cost-recovery gap and
making operational efficiency more difficult to achieve. At negotiations,
the Borrower submitted to IDA an action program for implementation within
seventeen months of credit effectiveness, which, in addition to the recent
increase, would adjust charges for government tractor hire se-vices
sufficient to ensure full cost recovery (para. 2, Schedule 3; draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Part IV. THE PROJECT
49.       The proposed project was identified in discussions between
Zambian officials and a Bank mission which visited Zambia in March 1983 in
connection with agricultural sector work. It was prepared jointly by Bank
staff and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD) and
appraised in November 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
during the period August 6 to 10, 1984. The Zambian delegation was led by
Mr. N. Mukutu, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Water



- 14 -
Development. A credit and project summary appears at the beginning of this
report, and a supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
50.       Project Objectives and Description: The main objectives of the
proposed project are:
(i)   to encourage and support the Government's efforts in policy
and institutional reform in the agricultural sector;
(ii)   to reverse the declining trend in  marketed agricultural
output; and
(iii) to reinforce Government's efforts to diversify the economy
from the extreme dependence on mining.
The project seeks to complement policy and institutional reforms with
physical inputs. This recognizes the fact that to avert further declines
in agricultural production in the immediate future, it is necessary not
only to improve the policy environment but to ensure the availability of
key inputs so as to enable the farmers to respond positively to the
improved policy and institutional framework.
51.       Although the long-term growth of Zambian agriculture depends
critically on the development of the subsistence and smallholder farmers,
the urgent need to increase food supplies, reduce imports and
diversify the economy, dictates that the short-term strategy include
measures to ameliorate the constraints immediately facing the medium and
large-scale farmers, since these farmers offer the best prospects of
increasing production in the short-run. The physical input component of
the project is designed to address the problems currently facing these
farmers.
52.       The project also supports a specific policy action program for
the agricultural sector, extending the policy measures contained in the
.Semorandum of Development Objectives and Policies' submitted to the Bank
by the Government in January 1983. This Memorandum affirmed the Govern-
ment's commitment, inter alia, to:
(a)   provide a system of incentives to producers of agicultural
products, based on a sound price setting methodology, with a
view to facilitating the establishment of economic prices
and a rational allocation of resources according to the
principle of comparative advantage among the various
regions;
(b)   adopt a policy of economic pricing for parastatal
enterprises, and streamline their operations; and
(c)   increase the efficiency of the marketing system, by allowing
competition among the official marketing organizations,
cooperatives, and private traders, eventually leading to a
system in which official producer prices would become floor
prices and Namboard would become the buyer and
seller of last resort.



- 15 -
53.       In summary, the actions to be taken in connection with this
project include:
(a)  allowing sufficient trading margins in maize and fertilizer
to cover Namboard's and the Cooperatives' full costs, within
a regionally differentiated price structure;
(b) undertaking a study, and implementing its recommendations,
regarding ways and means to improve ;he efficiency of
Namboard and the Cooperatives;
(c)   evolving and adopting a better methodology for setting
producer prices, which relates such prices to the
border-price equivalents;
(d)   adjusting the charges for the Government tractor hire
services to achieve and maintain full cost recovery;
Ce)   allowing private traders to participate in the marketing of
maize and the distribution of fertilizer; and
(f)   undertaking an assessment of the factors underlying the
extraordinarily high consumption of fertilizers, and
implementing its recommendations..
The proposed project would encourage the Government to further the policy
and institutional reforms in accordance with the details and implementation
schedule set forth in Annex IV herein. (Schedule 3, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Description
54.       The project has four main components as detailed below:
(a)   Farm Machinery and Implements: new tractors; mechanically
powered and animal drawn machinery and implements for land
preparation, sowing, weeding, fertilizer and
agro-chemical spreading or spraying, and for crop
harvesting; ox-carts; and spare parts;
(b)   Agro-chemicals: various crop protection chemicals and
herbicides;
(c) Miscellaneous: agricultural hand tools; bags for packaging
fertilizer and grain; improved seeds; small-scale irrigation
pumps and fittings; and farm trucks and trailers; and
(d)   Consultant services: about 27.5 man-months of
internationally recruited specialists to carry out the
proposed maize marketing and fertilizer distribution study.
55.       Provision of Inputs:  Because of foreign exchange shortages,
machinery, equipment, etc., have not been replaced or maintained adequately
and the sector's capital base has eroded significantly. In addition, the



- 16 -
supply of tools, packaging materials, seeds, spares, etc., and
agro-chemicaLs is seriously deficient. A necessary condition for a
resumption of adequate rates of growth in the sector, as well as for the
diversification of production and exports, is to restore the capital base
and provide the materials needed by the sector. This part of the project
will supply a substantial proportion (about 75 percent) of the sectors'
requirements in this regard, supplementing the resources made available
from the country's foreign exchange earnings.
56.       Consultant Services:  Some of the proposed project's policy and
institutional measures require analysis before implementation. Studies,
estimated to involve about 10.5 man-months of consultant's services, to
determine the appropriate pricing structure for Namboard and the
Cooperatives so that they can recover their trading expenses, and for the
Government to achieve full cost recovery on its tractor hire services, have
already been initiated. A study of the maize marketing and fertilizer
distribution systems is also included in the proposed project. This study
would focus on ways to increase the efficiency of these systems through the
strengthening of Namboard and the Cooperatives both managerially and
financially and through the introduction of private trading of these items.
It is estimated that the study would take about six months and would
require about 17 man-months of internationally recruited consultants. The
consultants chosen would be acceptable to IDA and would be selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines. (Section 3.03(a); draft Development Credit
Agreement). At negotiations the Borrower agreed to carry out the study and
implement its recommendations in line v7ith the schedule shown in Schedule 3
of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
Estimated Costs and Financing Arrangements
57.       Estimated Costs: The total project cost is estimated at about
US$72.3 million, consisting of US$39.9 million for farm machinery and
implements, USS11.4 million for spare parts, US$19.4 million for
agro-chemicals, US$1.4 million for miscellaneous inputs, and US$0.2
million for consultants services. The foreign exchange costs are estimated
at US$65.0 million. The project would be implemented over a period of
three years.
58.       Financing Arrangements: IDA would provide US$25 million, equiva-
lent to about 38% of the estimated foreign exchange costs. The Swiss
Government is expected to co-finance US$4.8 million, the African
Development Bank US$23.4 million, USAID US$5.0 million and CIDA (Canada)
US$6.8 million. The signing of the Swiss Grant and ADB Loan agreements,
would be a condition of effectivenes of the IDA Credit (Section 6.01(a);
draft Development Credit Agreement). An agreement with USAID to finance
certain items under the project has already been signed. CIDA:s
participation, while firm, may not be formally committed until mid-1985 and
therefore is not a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. The local
costs, estimated at US$7.3 million, v"uld be financed directly by the farm
machinery and implement dealers (trading houses). Each Trading House would
be required to pay to the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) the Kwacha equivalent of the
full amount of the foreign exchange cost of the items it is authorized to
import under the project.   At the current exchange rate the IDA Credit
would generate about K 50 million of local funds. The IDA Credit would be
to the Republic of Zambia and would be subject to the standard IDA terms.



- 17 -
Provision has been made for retroactive financing of up to SDR 80,000 for
expenditures incurred for consultants' services in connection with the
studies already initiated (para. 56).
Implementation and Management
59.       Overall Responsibility: The Bank of Zambia (BOZ) will have the
overall responsibility for implementing and managing those aspects of the
project which involve financing physical inputs, while the Borrower,
through MAWD, will be responsible for implementing the studies.    To help
BOZ to carry out its responsibilities under the project and before Credit
effectiveness, GRZ would establish a Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD), Ministry of Commerce and Industry
(MCI), National Commission for Development Planning (NCDP), commercial and
small-scale farmers, and the Project Executive Officer (Section 3.02,
draft Development Credit Agreement). PIC's main functions would include
establishing implementation procedures and allocating foreign echange
among the participating trading houses (Paragraph 1(b), Schedule, draft
Project Agreement).  BOZ has already set up criteria for allocating foreign
exchange among the trading houses and has prepared a proforma agreement
between itself and the trading houses.   These are satisfactory to IDA.
60.       Project Implementation Unit: BOZ would also establish, before
Credit effectiveness, a full-time Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which
would be headed by a Project Executive Officer (PEO) with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA. The PIU would be staffed sufficiently
and provided with adequate facilities and logistical support. It would be
responsible for the day-to-day operations including: evaluating and
processing import applications; ensuring that import licenses are issued
promptly to the eligible Trading Houses; monitoring the project activities
to ensure that the Trading Houses are complying fully with the stipulations
of the agreement between themselves and BOZ, and maintaining proper records
to show the uses of the proceeds of the Credit. (Section 6.01(d),draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 and Paragraph 1(c), Schedule,
d-aft Project Agreement).
61.       Trading Houses: Importation of the goods financed by tne proposed
*            Credit would be undertaken by Trading Houses, which are farm machinery and
agro-chemicals dealers located in Zambia. Each Trading House wishing to
participate in the project would enter into a formal agreement with BOZ.
The Trading Houses or their agents would allow on-the-spot inspection by
BOZ of goods imported under the project, stock sufficient spare parts
up-country, and submit supplier contracts or similar documents for approval
by PIC prior to execution. Conformed copies of shipping and other relevant
documents would be sent to PIC upon receipt of the goods concerned.
62.       Tranching: The IDA Credit would be made available in two
tranches: (i) a first tranche of SDR 10 million upon Credit effectiveness;
and (ii) a second tranche of SDR 14.7 million, approximately 15 months
after Credit effectiveness and after IDA's satisfaction following a joint



- 18 -
review of progress on implementing the policy reforms set out in Schedule 3
of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       Procurement: Procurement would be undertaken by Trading Houses
already established in Zambia and dealing in farm machinery and implements,
spare parts, and agro-chemicals. All items would be procured by the
various Trading Houses through normal commercial channels; the major
international manufacturers of farm machinery and agro-chemicals are well
represented in Zambia and are engaged in fairly intense competition for the
available market. The consultant services would be procured in accordance
with the Bank/IDA guidelines  (Section   13, draft Project Agreement)
64.       Disbursements: The proceeds of the IDA Credit would finance 100
percent of the foreign exchange expenditures for imported farm machinery,
spare parts, agro-chemicals and miscellaneous items; and 100 percent of the
consultancy service costs. Disbursements would be fully documented. To
facilitate disbursement for the eligible goods and services, the Borrower
would open a Special Account in the Bank of Zambia on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA and into which IDA would, upon Credit effectiveness and
receipt of a valid withdrawal application, deposit a sum of up to US$3
million (equivalent to about 3 months of imports of the eligible goods).
Thereafter, IDA would periodically replenish the Special Account upon
receipt and approval of the borrower's application, subject to the maximums
set by the tranching arrangement described in paragraph 62, and a minimum
of US$20,000 equivalent per each replenishment application. The
establishment of the Special Account would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 2.02(b) and 6.01(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
65.       The Bank of Zambia would maintain separate records and accounts
for all activities relating to the financing of physical inputs under the
proposed project while the Borrower would similarly do so regarding the
studies (Section 4.01; draft Project Agreement and Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The accounts and financial statements
would be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA not
Later than four months following the end of the financial year (Section
4.02, draft Project Agreement and Section 4.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).   BOZ and the Borrower would also maintain adequate
records to facilitate a close monitoring of Project implementation and
would prepare and submit to IDA quarterly progress reports and a final
Project Completion Report.
Relations with the IMF
66.       The project would complement the IMF's programs in Zambia
by assisting the Government to eliminate subsidies, thus helping to reduce
budgetary expenditures and deficits, and by increasing the domestic
production of the major staple food crops and industrial raw materials. By
reducing the need to import food commodities and fertilizers, it would
contribute towards improving the balance of payments.



- 19 -
67.       Environmental Impact:  The project would have no adverse
environmental impact. Agro-chemicals known to damage the environment would
not be eligible for IDA financing.
Benefits, Risks and Justification
68.       Benefits: It is not possible to make a meaningful assessment of
the benefits likely to result from the project . However, tt is realistic
to expect that the policy and institutional reforms supported by physical
inputs would have a considerable positive impact on agricultural
development in Zambia. They would do so especially by: (i) encouraging a
more efficient use of resources in accordance with regional comparative
advantage, (ii) releasing funds to productive investments through
reductions in subsidies, and (iii) improving the efficiency of the
marketing and input distribution channels through making the system more
competitive with private sector participation. Also, the project would
reinforce Government's efforts to diversify the economy, generate
alternative sources of employment and income, help to ease the balance of
payments problem, and increase domestically produced food supplies.
69.       To gain some notion of the likely impact on production arising
from the project an indicative assessment of the financial and economic
costs and benefits has been carried out on the cultivation of hybrid maize
by the medium- and large-scale farmers.
70.       Under conservative assumptions, the project would increase maize
production by an amount rising from about 30,000 tons in year 1, to a peak
of about 320,000 tons in year 10. Incremental production would average
190,000 tons annually over a period of 12 years which, at current prices,
is equivalent to about K 59.8 million gross; the present value of the net
benefits discounted at 13.5X would be K34.3 million (US$17.2). On this
basis, the financial rate of return is estimated at 27 percent and the
economic rate of return is estimated at 59 percent. The financial rate of
return is fairly sensitive to changes in costs and benefits: a decrease in
benefits by 10 percent would reduce the rate of return to 15 percent, while
an equal increase in costs by 10 percent would reduce it to 17 percent.
71.       The envisaged policy and institutional reforms would benefit a
wide spectrum of Zambian farmers, including subsistence farmers on the
verge of entering the market economy. The major part of the machinery,
spare parts, and agro-chemicals would go to the medium- and large-scale
farmers. However, assuming that farmers buy these inputs in proportions
that reflect the current ownership of tractors, at least 20 percent of
these inputs would benefit the emergent farmers. In addition, about 7,000
emergent farmers would benefit from ox-drawn implements financed by the
project.
72.       Risks:  The project's main risks are: delays or failure to carry
out the proposed policy reforms; inadequate availability of complementary
inputs, especially fertilizers; and recurrence of droughts. The Government
has already demonstrated its determination to carry out unpopular
measures. Because of the grim economic and financial prospects confronting
the country, it is realistic to expect that the Government will continue to
implement the reforms proposed under the project.



- 20 -
73.       The risk related to the possible shortages of Imported
complementary iuputs is expected to be minimized by the on-going efforts to
increase local production of fertilizers, and by the fact that fertilizers
are one of the input. for which Zambia ham found it relatively aamy to
obtain assistance from bilateral sources. With regard to droughts, little
can be done in the short- to medium-terms. For the long-term period,
research is proceeding with a view to developing drought-resistant crop
varieties. In any event, severe droughts have not occurred with great
frequency historically; the recent prolonged period of low rainfall belng
an anomaly.
74.       Justification of IDA Assistance:  Agriculture offers the best
prospects for diversification of the Zambian econony and for generating
future export proceed. to substitute for the decline In copper earnings
expected about the turn of the century. Because of its international
character and expertise in the sector, IDA is in a unique position to be
able to support the Government's efforts to reform sector policies and
institutions and to mobilize the external resources needed for that
purpose.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreewent between the
Association and the Bank of Zambia and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the ArLicles of Agreement of the
Association arc being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include: (a) signing of
the ADB Loan and Swiss Grant Agreements (para. 58); (b) opening of the
Special Account (para. 64); (c) establishment of the Project Implementation
Committee (para. 59); (d) establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
(para. 60); and (f) establishment of project execution procedures (para.
59).
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 18, 1984



-21 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
2ANIIA                 - EOcIAL INDICATOR4 S DATA mU
mflma                               Umncu  MoUMa CuuiTlD  ALRACIS) p
MOST                (NO"T MCUNT r.TIMTS) lb
RCCNT       HMIDDLE INC             mnIaDDLK tHCnO
zseobk   19701k    tiTmlUTbt  AFRICA 3. OF SAM          N. ARICA & MD WT
Ma  cuu.mM  IQ. 0)
TOTAL                              752.6        712.4     752.e
AGRICULTURAL                       397.4       399.3      401.4
OFP MCAPITh CUE)                      230.0       380.0      640.0             1112.9                 1149.6
WEDDT cmsuawia  ISa CAPITA
(RILOMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)            ..       301.0      443.0              529.0                  U22.1
M IATIO  MO1 VtS  TAISTIC8
POPULATWON,NHD-YRAR (THOUSANDS)    3207.0     4159.0    4045.0
URBAN POPULATION (C 0W TOTAL)       23.1        30.0       44.6               29.7                   41.2
POPULATiON PtoJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                           11.4
STATlONARY POPULATION CHILL)                             37.0
POPULATION PERHTUI                                        2.0
POPULATION OCHSITY
PER Su. lO.                        4.3          5.5       7.8               55.8                   36.3
PER SQ. KI. ACRl. LAND             8.1        10.4       14.5              111.5                  461.7
POPULATION AGE STRCTURE (1)
0-14 YIS                         45.0         46.1      47.4               45.4                    43.4
15-64 YRS                         52.5        51.4       50.0               51.7                   53.1
43 AND AOVE                        2.'         2.5        2.6                2.9                    3.3
POPULATION GRCAI RmAn ZX)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.6        3.1                2.8                    2.8
URBAN                              5.3         5.2        6.5                5.2                    4.5
CRtDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        50.6        49.6       49.5               47.0                   40.4
CRtUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       24.4        20.1       15.5               15.2                   11.5
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE              3.4         3.4        3.4                3.2                    2.5
FAMELY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 OF HRRIED  OEN)            ..          ..         ..                 ..                   22.2
gm AN   OIITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       ".0         96.0       87.0               91.6                   97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIRhENETS)      87.0        87.0       93.0               93.2                   110.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          58.0        58.0       58.0               56.7                   70.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       14.0         16.0      14.0 /c             17.0                   17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-43 DEATh RATE         38.0        29.0       20.0               16.7                   14.6
ALTU
LIFE *XPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       39.7        44.6       50.9               51.7                   57.5
INFMT MOnT. RATE (PER THOUS)       164.0       137.0      105.0              102.7                  101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPrP)
TOTAL                               *          37.0      42.0 Id            35.6                   59.7
URBAN                               .,        70.0       86.0 7             54.1                   64.5
RURAL                               *-        22.0       16.0 T             27.3                   38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPUIATION)
WTOTAL                                                        ..        16.0       42.0 Id
URBAN                               ..        12.0       87.07; 
RURAL                               ..         11.0      16.o 7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9540.0      8140.0    7b70.0 le          11943.3                 4345.1
POP. PfU RURSING PERSON           9920.0 /f   2430.0    1730.0 7e           2248.9                 1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            360.0        300.0     210.0 Ia           986.9                   632.9
URBA                             180.0 If        ..     350.0 7j           368.7                   545.5
XMtlAL                           470.0 If        ..     240.0Ig           4012.1                  2513.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..       31.0                                         2 ..  24.2
OSlING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                               ..          4.4
URBS                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROIB
TOTAL                                          2.6
URBAN                               ..           ..        .                  .
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TDrAL                               ..           ..        ..                 ..                    44.2
UR                                277.5          ..        ..                 ..                   77.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  ..                  16.1



-22 -                                           ANE  I
Page 2 of 5
ZAMIA                  -USOCA zIuICAOmu DATA SHIR
ZAMBI                                NBRNC  ROUS (VRIGnTK  AVIRIOR) La.
MOST                (MOST ECUT  ESThIAY) a
RECUT        IZIU iNCOnK            NIDDLE 13CI
z,mo13.    197w0b    n    uilk    AnicA S. r sAna    s. AnicA   mIaD UaT
ADJUSTED INROLUNT  RATIOS
PRiAY,  TOTAL                      42.0        89.0       96.0               91.0                    88.3
MALE                    51.0         99.0     102.0                90.5                  102.5
FEMALE                  34.0         79.0      90.0                73.6                   73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    2.0        13.0       16.0                17.4                   43.0
MALE                     3.0         17.0      21.0                23.7                   52.3
73ALE                    1.0         6.0       11.0                14.8                   33.0
VOCATIONAL (5 0? SECONDUY)           27.8         3.2        2.3                5.3                    10.3
PUPIL-TIACHZ RATIO
PRIKARY                            50.0        47.0       44.0 ;s            38.6                    30.3
SECONDARY                          14.0        22.0       22.0 W             24.3                    23.1
ADULT LITERACt RATE (2)              28.5 /f     47.3       44.0                35.6                   43.5
PASSENCER CARS/TNOUSAND POP          10.2        14.5       18.7 /b            20.7                    17.8
RADIO RICECIVERS/TOUSAND POP          4.7        18.0       23.9              100.8                   138.8
TV RECEIVERS/TEO0SAND POP              ..         4.1       10.6               19.5                    46.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEA
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             5.0        13.7       19.9 /i             17.2                   31.2
CiEMI ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..           ..        0.3 7iW             0.3                    1.7
TOTL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           1322.0      1621.0    2157.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   33.3        32.6       32.3               33.8                    10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              79.0        73.0       67.0                57.1                   42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0         9.0       11.0               17.4                    27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.2        39.0       35.7                36.3                   26.2
MALE                               55.3        52.9       49.3               47.6                    46.4
FEMALE                             27.3        25.2       22.6               25.1                     5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENaC RATIO             1.2         1.2        1.4                1.4                     1.8
aWCE Dmmm
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS           33.7        23.0 /i
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS          58.2        63.0 7-1  56.7 /b
LOWEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS            5.4         3.8 71"    3.6 7..
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.0        10.1 7I"   11.1 7W
povn TARw  GRU
ESTIKATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      247.0               525.3                  274.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      16S.0              249.0                   177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      126.0              477.4                   402.6
RURAL                                ..          ..       85.0              166.0                   284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                ..          ..       25.0
RURAL                               ..
NOT AVAILABLE
MT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatLon-aeibted aritretic mans. Coverage of countries ano  the
indicators depends an availability of dat and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year betaLe  1959 and 1961; -Data for 1 70" between 1969 and
1971; and data for host Recent EetiuteC between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1979; /f 1963; /L 1978; /h 1976; /1 1973.
JUNE, 1984



-23-                                                                    AE I
e- W SOmUML ac~tcPage 3 of 5
70     *i  d         C    ic-    -   .etl    _    t. -            _5t1        _ _sse  It    _d .1. _  et        l_cf      tat 
A0__s . _-          U_ ___   .
_-e Beat fin  -"G M .   a              lt-a              In  _  Q      -     w I.    -tU  -       __ lB           - c_ .
*_- a. C acalaC. ate. .g..C. -|t   as-e.-aSt. ne   a.jae   _tc-- .                           _     r
_B cate.         -  fl) lB -   .c-w t--at -  eliact at.  a  Ua                    r _c   -tn ..... A  -t   1a __                    at. .   -n  I.
~~~Sm   - |- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~               ~ ~~ t~ ln ~-t_  _-Ia_-  -                                             d
_t       ,  _n __ _:f m-  l            a  _e .ec- at. -act. _. e _n  It -                                                  -    t -  -aLBe.     t
_e ta feth   -~m             B.e  in  __   C         taa _t ti _r_r.c  _agc _ _B _atatlt C _e  =. t_                                 *ac
-  _c~  __.                             _.   _   't  _-                                                 .   tZ_ _ -e -ar _
CNl' 'll NIPM  .: See                                                             ramtat- ft-aft -ae pl-  11e-1a -tIm  St   .tStpneStm
- eattac.at nes..z..a:  -  t  Ir-4p9         t                a--               s-  S9f  M..A.    st-m.#-aIa   e. -at
tat Isa-a. pe  tt  - IItt~~~   .a- c - It.-ItatIft &ilt-.bf.t m. t.g                                                -
_ icc  a  .   _ea.                                                               am-at3s. me    ttal B-    -- tst      Vc ~.t- __p .tP  .
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it  _ te_. ~5                                                                           r ta bu-St    lt    -   C c_ St    - 
V       -"P  ,      -       .      t       -   _ _      ed o-  -       _.    .B     ea     _I. ... -a r   t-la                           ....I    .  -
-aapn.al- -         a             -ted          m  170        25                   tatUttlt            ea tap.a -z fl        ltt   e.llattt
o-r_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Isac          ___,. -e_ -a _..       _, - tee -, lB.atc. _-.c                                                            cm..da e.aa
(                  a            etee.c~~~~~~vltllop Me. -lag    at don ..t-.m  -c    t)                 ecl4*taI             ata tt.t.
C.- ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~        w SI-   _ - f-w_"s_t                              -
_  __~~~~~~~;  =                           -_s I __.. sLU                   d-      .               %-*t     __ s. e -__ -s
--^~~~- ~~"~ ~-  L    -                   _      u    __^_  Ill-   /C_t
U   et Se..      ......                                                             -   ALcII-n    l  BC-    rt  Ca'- .1   -.      -1 .-Ia.
2_  - 2-k. -1 f-A. zsft                            77-5                   C, _-        SlS.Lsa  St .B t        _    -                
a-gal  _gle. t  c  _t)  _ _ _ Set _; t. W S-. 50                          _U_ _ ___ __            _
1be            -at - _ct -                S     _       M. Sn sa  lela- a  *             eslt _
_t    tataa -           r           C. .          t1- _     a                       t     t-
_- -e       Z                                                                  -   a a-       - f- S  - -            - .t. _I. t1   -
c-a.       -   -- tc- tesegeaj.t   -   eC ~10                        -    c  ,n- - - a      s-.      -  ..a  a..    a-ate-
te  _ee .  _S   _  -. S_S eac _         .US7-  a  I U                           ctiU_       t    -asft _Lv. _seUs '   _t_f -ca.     te          -tS
r_ -Vb  _sr_-|. --_wt  _ wre_  _ S.; 
-    ,tati. p e _  . _,t__e _ _    _t'  - _       .   t s-cc _t7 _c
-                         -     -. r-S t -         .   t           _.  m       t.     _ -    L_.'2 _       C _    S_  _   _  _  _         te.t _
t  at  b.. tat..                                ts.at. rV- t_            _          e     t    llts      . nit eci  2. *I-ic- tLSt  Ce.t
aa, nfla    . fe.lS  Idlt   -         ineI a-L--lt
=eatea_ _-  talt a.te_   tiaft_..s    ar_a                                        ...s. t..tsm  s-sn
_ _ __t__________zE_  _1    .   -   aw   -..tfte c-atlec...                                   * tale         e   at. _ Se. __a! <..         ct
- l. _           a.* cm.t_ b. _t_  ti-a f-_ - rie.                         p....  t . dIa-s.e _s di?c. te.g   C         _ ncc 
es-    _        -a 5._ u           .Is    s       _.sa   -g a-                     .tw   -    at. -  _In -    -  a *css .mI-
am* -t_att _, t. -<, _n  B          s  ._ -a g.e.el                . -   .                 ceth  a-att -acft -- tt_-tB-te .ttt. gat.e                cc z
_. B ~tIn She   *_aa-e-t.mct NettIng.  _e tisa                                    _r_.ed. ste  t_t. atI. _a_S_ _< cs _t .f   ._r. Is  -1
_A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 'E., l-._                                                       I
=f a _ae. ia fs               _- _ccc     __ _ ___ at 0i                   tt.._ea _et..  _r.e           -      .c-i _ 'ee       Itete
_. .ini I..                                                                    i-..e eat. _ eta  .'   _c   __  .  at_t  __ _tS _c_t
-citt. ' r_ 1,                                                                    nctte   a .         t.n.t. --.s 6-4 *-    t *_ tIoS. I. r. _
m--a-_ ase.r.               ..  e t -  _ _         t                              S-      --_, -*   e-  __tc                                    L
eats      It.  laW- -  it.  En.  Ad-            -                       - fatS-e-ti.   ...n-oe-ta gga, ta Ia .t -ft-c-
c,-&.          e7                                                                    - _* -t'- - _c : - _     w.tt -eeSte   Cd-le    -
P.   I_SMw,_l
.sa     get_w      wl,0te  m.a__  _s, a  ISth..                                Set __Stc f..e _~              :at.. -s _Stt .~. *at s     . Ne Pll
t.geIs.Se Cgts    'ge-tact - a_he -_ _c..: ass lea., _ at                        t_-~t. in          l r.      t         C   S.ld:          -__.
- uars  ct   __.1e-        ._        _ . ta-s-ca. aa _isa.                        ettc.      ra.-c -.   act..        I. _.-   ..lc.t  -c
o.sn.B.te.g                  -    .aI.  'tn. -. _~     _t                 _           t  _- laM.t    a 's,*r mte- _te         _C B_ st_t. __ 
Icl  _70  lt't  a  170-t raw                                                  alt..o _ t s-Lie-i llc1.s-_s 
t    I               -     t       c-c Sc-   _ __              <         a_-< cae  C..        e        __i--ra..c Fe   a t_ _
f    c       _e, _-w _M--     as  -1  _c _70    -. t_                 - _ces- o                                                              1t  -  _ d    .-     dc I   .   pe._   __
_0-                   _r..t.. r_                                                                     gema _1.              <  .rt  .       -- .t_
Felt wl- -   Itat-cc Ca cc-aItet.cnm   -  e-nat I      .C*      a-.                    Bdl   ?a~a      a-f Is
M e. t_tc t                                                                                     cs  tin c0 _   t     ~ S t    -c[We
- Scs-.att.m. pl ftctl d- -w oII Sa -S."-
gst   cc W   atce-eas-S               On  a-gelS       1a -                    L- Ste *        -r*r,
cdi.I   _a    g.-.ll              _a   ES.. al0 e                    _            a,  r.a a-t_em1 tt.e..t   - s_ r_o1lir t_l. cc1.4 _eaI-mc
da__ _ _. t__aaM       s- Ia flc    Sac .in  r-  cnett, a                                       l,d I. _.1a              _ta   _t^t.  t~--ft., tI-ts
_P_ I. I,.                   -Wt-ales_t_   t    . r V   t     I. _  _.  ate
tan.. i ca- caal,cI..- ta,t. tSea?r..t) -aaa -cc a-ec        eg--e -m-- as-  c-Icta I      .. L-!   rmc- t- tes  Se- Ic
t _eln  at_ D. __             _gt    _I_s    d_a_t_s           _              t.tat. g,e.tg __ Lanre_ D.r  _t a tast. i         Et_. -as
cffaa  a taa cc _ s.f).   Wamt_       ge.case at tan ac-cr I.                     ttacrctes-L . -L-  .     -     - i e  r rc   sat _    ts. __._ 55_7
-  ett  ac-cs(- seetat .--; Ittf. M-S  I-tIfl5 a  latI                      d-fl  Cc-...        ~         f-   -           -  r      
a                                                                         afttet.ct. in. (.ft-c..st - dtP.&t- .I -alJ- Fctct.ne 
_-9   _ _t_            _     ~  In_             II    ttStler_
*                              car catS   .l-  t_ pa.t. Ce... c  alm-a)-C *fte ttf  c--                                                   ._ rattt      t-.     tate  aetan
eew  c-le- C .5t *SaC _-S. ..cll  .cc._D.c stn _r-                              c-gacstt' _  teal _te    faI  _ a_. -an _ t_l cc  ..tctc-
*c   atttti  c-In  _ -I. _a r c Dctg5.  Itt _.                          _          s. _tt  _, reto S.  _. __t :1 s. _t*  _.tcssn  dc_..
-   ct       .. MO.    - %".l   em _   --_A._    r__
sgt. _-  rt Ca cieaSt  a  _ _ _t ts etcit...................................  r _ t .at.. a  US cl..  _e-
Z-       - -_S.  f     a         a_.a   .-a t_   a  ra -_  r                                     - _     a c          e-   ii a 4 an _cc __
r clas_  a _ca _em.ac    r_sca   t_aaa  _U.  elvm*_t.                     *     _        a_aa  s- _ *-tc-la  Ina ed r7-B).
cctr   _- acsca a,t_s p.-es.  a  .tlnm _t_   cat..                                         __ c_-a_    1_   _Z}_w_~   w
-~~~~~~~~_ C_t _rt _  t_l_d  I-tel_ tilr r_ _wo a_ s   r-t.                              ta ac. rnwg,c- t 
_tc-_  Cs _atct   _- .aa_  at t_ _ alt...                   .   a-t         _       .c  ps-. a _ai ccaasl _p gcta,rl_   _Dsct _r_cacacis ac
ttS-      %t- IWa   C  -a pe -          atI n-c-C   ae 
_t_~ ~~~~~~~g-                                                             rr_t
gelstUr  ~ . cmam. r_ s-   _. a~ aetid Bw a tef _a _ s..  lt_*                  stat? _W     _-____rt_
t_ asSt ge1- se-st -_ tat tin aId  se.a *_  _t _:_ti                               _t  cc a-e.at _ lt    llcat cn.ts.r                    _f_
Wiledt _rId *-_sc. lf.5.-Is* ;te  a:, _a. 45                     lttasa  astcm-te gt_  __1 tI _s  r,_  tacXt. - ac_   -w r_ma -
tanit_e C      teA   a  pat}-s ta  - -  d.a  Ei         san a_ tic,                .aetsts -aqet _.  cIa. es.tal .-as t             a r ica_  _  - .
5md tet _ m.t      -n Cm.e tIa         -      inl _   a_ t Sss Itt               fstra _nai.tctcSccte   ft .  a5t-al.avss
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ce at  aSa_nn _s Stat-s                                              a   tlttnt  athe ac-a..     M
__s-e   Sc-   El-aics. 1. _ie  aS Ea_ t s _cc
acs_   _         c ats t_   Cc.. __    tsa _.mcta t-Ia   a                                                                        __ ;_  -
at_n ata  c-I  cc-sI  C               _ .t   _e       thet  _tett
c-    _t_ _s.ea  _a   c_l    -a         I    S. Se ti IntI 
_r.  atlBc-a-d ae                    Sta  a_I-s.l...pt.



e.s4 -
n  I
P  4 of 5
}tnC -s
F-pulatiox      5.862 mU3:m  ed-191)
Q  Per CBPit   U$60Q (rAi.-IgS)
NWAL AGOOMS
homc            &Shareof EV at             Amerae Amw
(MUM [s           Qirre Mh*at Pdiw        r     Gmth (Z)
1kKicstor       at (omeit Prtces)           (p     2)        (at gutt 1970 Prdces)
1982       '97   1975  198   19)   1970-75 1975-80  L0-12
Oke Dkm.stk Prxdact         3,83D        10.0 100.0 100.O 1M.O   3.0    -0.9           1.3
Agrcldtue                   52D         10.7  13.0  14.2  13.6   2.7        0.5    -2.2
LUUng                       432         36.3  13.6  16.   11.3   0.0       -3.0      4.3
Otblr indstry`              932         185  2&.1  Z3.7  24.3   8.3        -0.2      1.2
Servis                    1.946         36.5  45.3  46.0  5D..8   3.2       0.4     0.3
co3mpqie                    3,631         54.6  79.0  81.4  94.8   3.4        0.0     3.7
Crossuvestmet                 668         28L4  40.5  23.4  16.9   4.1    -16.9   -22.4
Eixwts of loods & NFS       1,05D         54.   36.3  62.2  27.4   0.5       -3.5     0.4
pts  of Goods & ?5S         1,498         37.1  55.8  47.0  39.1  -1.2       -9.0   -18.5
Grass  Tric S-&-migs          199         45.4  21.0  18.6   5.2  -9.9        0.0   -57.7
.OVEfr FDIRW.z               Gera3 Gdverme:t2           CeatraG  lro         (19M)
(KNMn.)      Zof?P         (KNpn.)         ZofG
Oirrwt PRecepts                                           878.7          24.7
Qwrent Expsxii                                           1,323.0         37.1
Qwrezt Surps                                             -444.3         -124
CaQtal Ependitures                                       32D.2           8.9
-teaml Fnmr                                                192.9          5.4
W:Y, camrr and HBIM                    1970   L975  -0   1981   1982   L9833
(luflcxi;End Pe -d
itay and Qasi lxsy                      356    493    907    979   1309   1398
Bmk Credft to Gwerimet                 -164    318   1355   1495   1983   2116
Bak Credit to Private Sector4           137    393    505    765    905    985
(Percetg of lTdeK NLidrs)
Mey ad Qasil Mey as Z o GP               28.1   31.3   30.1   28.4   36.7
Ixi1lesal1e Price rid   (195..10D)5     116.4  188.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.0
Anml percetage I  g: In:
V "lesale Price ixdex                   2.5   16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.1
Bak Credit to GDV(erreist             -40.8  406.9  3W.8   10.3   32.7    6.7
Bwk Credit to PriVate Sector4          25.0   17.0    4.6   51.4   18.3    8.8
1                    xJfa g,  ui    elecLidty, gas and water.
2 Figweres do not differ   f    y from  Central Goe   i.
3 Erd-Septed)er 1983.
5 All domestEcly uged goods.                                          Sept. 1984



-25-
A        I
bW 5 GE 5
7RL PAMNE    AND CAPIA MM
BN1A.I  cF PXC                          rA3E     EX1S L982
1980   198    1982   1983
f                                                 (MIffflifx  USO$) (Est.)                       Ms$ M.  Z
Exports af  Nod, bES          1,611  1,126  1,050  1,065    Copper                     843     90
hortsa of Coods,  S           1,795  1,608  1,499  1,130      O*1t                     30       3
Pesourca Gap (defit  -)        -183   -482   -49    -65    lad ain Ziw                 30       3
All otle cmuti           41      4
Factr Services (net)l          -321   -271   -238   -2D1        Total                 943   7a)
Net Transfers2                 -144   -101    -30    -40                                      -
Ban    i Qirent Acmt           - 649   -.85    -76-  -306
MT Dec.1 31, 19
Offical Qntl                    30      26      3D      26
Drect Foreigg lIxesRmt           ..     ..    ..       ..              l$l.
Net MlLT Boarmr g               437    210    238    i11c Debt, Ina.    _                   2,6M3
Misin                        624    400    334    158                     Private D          ..
I   I izatcm                  187    L90      96      47    TotaL             & 1sbzzed 2,6353
Net IW                           8    367    -49        64
Eternal Paynwt Arrears          136     53    186       14
Otber      (nei.)               39    159    396        66     MT SWIMR5 D O
Chwge in Reenres                -1      38    -88       25                                   Z
-Increas)
PbbUc Debt, In.              11.6
ISbl r      ;                                                   l      d onGmmt    Ptivate Debt   
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tt  0usaot    & Ms;:T                              e  11.6
Qmss Tit'l.  Peeves             90      52    110    115
(weeks of Tqworts, f.o.b.)    (4.2)  (2.7)  (7.4)  (5.3)
Qixeut A/C Bla. as Z GDP     -17.0  -21.6  -18.7   -.9        ]/Dlk IRDI, SepOte 30, 1984
RMES C' E13INlEZ                                                                       IED    II
US$
c                                                                          (hatg &    nsb=seA  336.66  3835
190                         1.2682                            UnLsbre                 fL7.00  92.10
1981                        1.1466                            ozaxding iixl.
1982                        1.0748                               Uhdisburs            453.66  130.45
1983                        0.8083
1    I cU otract salary axd gratuitier transfrs
2 E  loding offnial g ts and cxtract salary and gratuities rsf
3 Ratio of debt service an MX debt, ewcb!irg arrears and 1W repaymnts, to edpt  of goos and
fctor services.
..nt available                                                                       s4 1



-26 -                             ANE  I1
Page 1 of 2
STATUS- OF BANR GROUP OPERATIOIS IN ZANBIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Avount in U$ Hillion
(Less Cancellations)
loan   Credit                                                                  Undisbursed
No.   No.       Year   Borrower          Purpose                 Bank    IDA   Loan Credit
19 Loans fully
disbursed                               400.22
1131            1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications      32.00            0.19
1424            1977   Zambia            Industrial Forestry    16.80            0.08
1566    798     1978   Zambia            Third Righway          11.25   11.25  11.25   9.24
863     1979   Zambia           Coffee Production                6.00           0.75
873     1979   Zambia           Technical Assistance             5.00           2.56
1790    973     1980   Zambia            Third Railway          25.00   15.00  11.26   2.62
1923            1981   Development       Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company         15.00           1.43
2001            1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development     11.00            9.08
1193     1982   Zambia           Southern Province                                  -
Agric. Development             18.00          14.89
1196     1982   Zambia           Smallbolder Dairy Dev.           7.50           6.10
1251     1982   Zambia           Fifth Education                 25.00          19.98
2151            1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Mining
company          Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.  5.10            4.63
2152            1982  Zambia             Pet. Exploration Prom.  6.60            4.27
1333     1983   Zambia           Maamba Coal Eng.                 4.30           3.23
1362     1983   Zambia           Rural Water Supply              10.00           8.54
SF2      1983   Zambia           Rural Water Supply               6.00           4.67
1437     1984   Zambia           Indz Forestry-PhaseIII          22.40          21.48
2391            1984   Zambia            Export Rehab. & Diver. 75.00           74.81
Total                                          597.97  130.45 117.00  92.10
of which has been repaid                      144.31     -
Total now outstanting                          453.66  130.45
Amounts sold                       28.58
of which has been repaid          28.58          -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                     453.66  130.45
of which is undis',ursed                      117.00   92.10
NOTES:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Credit 1529, approved on November 27, 1984 for the Fisheries Development Project, has
not yet been signed.



-27 -
ZAMBIA
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Investment                                                      US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                       Type of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216-ZA     1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing      0.85   0.23    1.08
250-ZA     1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery             1.20    -      1.20
307-ZA     1975   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324-ZA     1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia          Company                  -     0.54    0.54
394-ZA     1978   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials    0.10    -       0.10
483-ZA     1979   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production             28.00    -     28.00
527-ZA     1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited     Textiles & Fibers       7.60    -      7.60
600-ZA     1981   Zambia Consoli-    Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                        27.03    -     27.03
709-ZA     1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism                17.25   -      17.25
Total gross commitments                   82.81   0.98   83.79
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                   29.60   0.81   30.41
Total now held by IFC                     53.21   0.17   53.38
=9 -
Total undisbursed                         34.82     -    34.82
NOTES: Investment No. 743-ZA for US$2.1 million equivalent in Mpongwe Development
Company Limited approved on June 12, 1984 was signed on October 8, 1984.



- 28 -
Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Tinetable of Key Events
a)  Tine taken to prepare project:           4 months
b)  Project prepared by:                    Ministry of Agriculture
and Water Developoent
(MAWD) and the Bank of
Zambia
c)  First Presentation to IDA:              March 1983
d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission:      November 1983
e) Negotiations:                             August 1984
f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           April 1985
II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
a) Review of conditions precedent to release of the second tranche of
the Credit.
b) Contributions to a Special Account to facilitate procurement out
of IDA resources.
III. Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of the IDA Credit is conditioned on
satisfactory progress by the Borrower on sector policy reforms (para.
62).



- 29 -
Annex IV
ZAMBIA
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Schedule for Policy Reforms and Other Measures
A. Prior to Credit Effectiveness:
(i) The Borrower to establish a Special Account in the Bank of Zambia
(para. 64);
(ii) the Borrower to establish a Project Implementation Comidittee
(PIC) (para 59);
(iii) the Borrower to sign the ADB loan and Swiss Grant Agreements
(para 58); and
(iv) the Bank of Zambia to establish a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) (para 60).
B.  After Credit Effectiveness:
(i) the Borrower would further adjust hire charges for
Government-owned tractor services to achieve full cost recovery
by not later than end of August, 1986 (para. 53);
(ii) the Borrower, with regard to maize marketing and fertilizer
distribuion and within a regionally differentiated price
structure, would allow the PCU's and NAMBOARD sufficient margins
to cover at least one-third of full costs by May 1985, two-thirds
by May 1986 and full costs no later than May 1987 (para. 53);
(iii) the Borrower to adopt by not later than six months of Credit
effectiveness a pricing methodology for producer prices which
relates such prices to border prices equivalents (para. 53).
(iv) the Borrower, based on the fertilizer consumption study, to
present to IDA for comment by no later than six months of Credit
effectiveness recommendations for measures to reduce the high
level of fertilizer consumption and to implement the agreed
recommendations by no later than twelve months after Credit
effectiveness (para. 53),
(v) the Borrower: to submit to IDA by no later than twelve months of
Credit effectiveness, for review and comment, an interim report
of the maize marketing and fertilizer distribution study; to
submit to IDA for review and comment by no later than eighteen
months of Credit effectiveness the final renort of such study;
and by no later than twenty-four months of Credit effectiveness:
to implement the recommendations of such study (para 53).



ZAMBIA
NATURAL VEGETATION ZONES AND RAINFALL                                      ZAIRE
Z A  I R  E   
Average annual rainfall, millimeters                                               ,             -
Roads                             Natural vegetation zones:                      .-'
-   * Railroads                            Woodlands                                        NchoI.ng.,
Rivers                                Savannas                                                           F
.  Swamps                            Thickets
@ 19   National capital                  Grasslands                                         K(wa
\   @    Provincial capitals             Deciduous or dry
-  Provincial boundaries               e      e. s:':Fndres
*   . _ International boundaries                                                                               A
Kitom.t.rs 0  50    too    IS0    200   250                          -
Z rA  I RE                                            Miles 0         50         I0a)       150            n'  
v-   ~ ~ ~ ~~-             ~roLeho5.
*                                             I Luhimis~~~~  ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ashti   Smp,
MwniI-
i   /-12,                                                               o  (/e,-'
j   ;r ~ ~ ~                      .i         -                   . t.f.j_                               1-
ANGOLA
16@ ~   ~       Zmbz !_>Xb                                    --           v,
N  Rb 5:/S hMu
>      \A                          r  a h          _               1                                       Z  | hp a   A  1d
(                         C~~~~~~~~~~~asimoba Kuta
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Snz._                                           -~    -              Z1    I    M   IB   IA   . tn *--_d n .BAte,^/
16'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
_-- ' / s _ - , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t^rO'._ba .d...s    ,No....- o.   . . "   dO  0   ,0. O
.-                      2 '  J >--~~~~~~~~~BOTSWANA  -.                                .o.oo{ C'* 8'.,dl
0 .  ,                      ,   I



IBRD 16373
JUNE 1982
T A N Z A N I A
,~.    .              \   -cbJw>. 
\i~~NcIheI.no.Mpookoso
ISO     200      250                            N    -O    2    7      H                           *       <
Lubumbashi              L
122
I
:                 Utepir5sp~~~oshB                   A7yy                                  og\_      .n
_q PPEA'OR,                                                          -                           .MALAW I
T. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    0
;bwe                          ,                      -    -b  - _
t > ~                     /    U  7 5    Ki  -_ _-_ _J_                                             _  _  _ _     _  _  _  _
1   >    ' r    --   -i --x                               ~M oZ A M B I Q U E
^;;C.\d)                            -                                _**~~                                        )       SOMALIA
;-J'z , u,,  _'_                                  .                     v                      .Lr.A:DA1 A
ul                                                                                                            KENYA )  )    -  KENY.
'~~~~~ ~                                                                  ::.  F. -  / _    UU
TANZANIA
5 6 -  1 AA    -   -   -  Z  I                      M B   A    B   VV   E  i  ;    ; _ > [ ^ ... AL t AALAWI
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~ZI  ABA 
ri.-rs Dp h.s 0.p,. ,n'd tr IN. Wre  See krrrs  xr ,t.rt.r     80r  -d -   - '-
I. t'              at ol. 'rce tde, a' rtr'ca, _r-  ..'e- .r . atlepenC d  e dc..,..eeai coc .',a rr   \ZIt.1BtBNE~ f  9"
beh-_da,..s nr, ,tf nno -.w, r; eralut . p . oef  M0  t   end ge,,a rd  N A.' 1 A  15
.cC.te   s.v   a.,                                                    r scrs ;.dNA     _  -                MADAGASCAR






