Docuntei of
The World Bank
FOR OMIcAL USS ONLY
Repot No. 10341
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1545-ZA: A5-ZA)
FEBRUARY 19, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
DONALDSNo,/ 10341-ZA Type: (*CR)
DONLDSN,/X31753 / T9 047/ OEDDI
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department VI
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zambia Kwacha (ZK)
zKL     I/S 1
1984                          1.7
1985                          2.0
1986                          7.5
1987                          8.0
1988                          8.0
1/ Annual averages
ABBRE VIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
BOZ            Bank of Zambia
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
GRZ            Government of the Republic of Zambia
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOF            Ministry of Finance
Namboard       National Agricultural Marketing Board
PIC            Project Implementation Committee
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
USAID          United States Agency for International Dovelopment
ZCF            Zambia's Cooperatives Federation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL Y8AR
January I - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
o4ae of Difecot.General
Opmatmn Evaluat.i
February 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS A!D THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on ZAMBIA - Agricultural
Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1545-ZA; A5-ZA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Zambia: Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1545-ZA; A5-ZA)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at tihis time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1545-ZA; A5-ZA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PREFACE     ..................          .................          .......  ......
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . ........ ...........................iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                             .I
Project Identity.                                                                  I
Background.                                                                        I
Project Objectives and Description.                                                2
Project Organization.                                                              3
Project Implementation.                                                           4
Project Results and Impact.                                                       6
Project Sustainability.                                                            7
Bank Performance.                                                                  8
Borrower Performance ..................    ..................  9
Project Relationships.                                                            9
Studies and Consultancies .10
Project Documentation and Data .10
Findings and Lessons Learnt .10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .13
Table 1:    Related Bank Loans and Credits .13
Table 2:  Project Timetable .13
Table 3:       Estimated and Actual IDA Disbursements .14
Table 4:       Implementation of Policy Reforms and Related Actions .15
Table 5:  Project Costs .16
Table 6:  Project Financing .17
Table 7: Studies .18
Table 8:  Status of Covenants .19
Table 9:   Staff Inputs and Mission Data .22
ATTACHMENT 1: COMMENTS FROM CO-FINANCIERS .23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMABIA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1545-ZA; A5-ZA)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
in Zambia, as modified in February 1986, for which Credit 1545 -ZA in the amount of SDR
24.7 million was approved on March 8, 1985. It became effective on August 10, 1985. On
November 1, 1985 a supplementary credit A5-ZA in the amount of SDR 9.7 million from the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) was approved. It became
effective on December 9, 1985. The project objectives were modified substantially in
February 1986 when, at Governmzent's request, the Bank agreed project funds to be used to
support exchange rate reform through foreign exchange auctions. Both Credits closed on June
30, 1988, with undisbursed amount of SDR 0.84 million for the IDA Credit and SDR 0.15
million for the African Facility. These balances were canceled.
The first draft of Parts I and III of this PCR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program. The final version was prepared by the staff of the Africa Region,
Southern Africa Department, Agriculture Operation Division. The PCR is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit, Guarantee, and Project agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
Part II of the PCR was prepared by the Borrower. The PCR was sent to all co-
financiers but only the African Development Bank, USAID, and the Government of the
Netherlands responded. The co-financiers' comrnents are contained in Attachment 1 hereto.



iiu
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1545-ZA; AS-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The primary objectives of the project originally were to stimulate agricultural growth
in order to increase rural incomes and diversify the economy from the heavy dependence on
mining. The project sought to achieve these objectives through: (a) supporting policy reforms
related to prices and marketing of agricuiltural commodities, notably maize, and inputs,
notably fertilizers; and (b) improving availability of key imported inputs, notably farm
machinery and implements, so as to enable farmers to respond to policy reforms (para 5).
The project objectives were consistent with the main constraints on the sector and the design
was appropriate relative to the objectives. The objectives and design were changed
substantially soon after the project got underway when it was decided to use the project funds
to support exchange rate reforms, through a weekly auction of foreign exchange, and to allow
project funds to be used for all imports subject to a short negative list (para 7). From then
on, the project ceased to be an agricultuiral operation except with regard to the sectoral policy
reforms.
Implementation Experience
2.     The implementation arrangements as envisaged at appraisal were sound and realistic,
given the project objectives at the time. They too were changed substantially after the
decision to channel project funds through the foreign exchange auctions (paras 8 and 9). This
created major difficulties in documenting the end-use of the project funds and preparing
accounts and audit reports (para 32).
3.     Disbursement progress was initially slow. The demand for and disbursement of
project funds increased substantially after the decision to use the project funds for all imports
and, by the closing date, only a negligible amounts of IDA and African Facility funds
remained undisbursed (para 10). However. it is estimated that only about a third of the
project funds went to agriculture. A fundamental reason for this outcome is that maize
constitutes the overwhelming part of Zambia's agriculture and, since maize prices continued
to be controlled, the bulk of the agricultural sector, uinlike the other sectors, could not freely
pass on to consumers the high cost of imported inputs ,esulting from depreciation of the
Kwacha; therefore, compared to the other sectors, dgriculture was ill placed to compete for
project funds at the foreign exchange auctions (para 17).



iv
4.     A significant amount of the Swiss and Japanese funds, which were administered by
IDA, remained undisbursed (para 2). The low disbursement of the Swiss funds was entirely
due to the curtailment of the project period by about a year, following the abandonment of the
reform program in May 1987. The low disbursement of the Japanese funds was mainly due
to the fact that the use of these ftunds was restricted to agricultural transport items the
effective demand of which was seriously depressed by the sharp depreciation of the Kwacha
while maize prices continued to be controlled (para 11). The closing dates of the agreements
for these funds have been extended; the Swiss funds are expected to be fully disbursed by
June 1992 and the Japanese funds by October 1992.
5.     Before the Government abandoned the reform program in mid-1987, good progress
had been made in implementing the policy changes envisaged under the project (para 12), and
in complying with various covenants stipulated in the Development Credit and Project
Agreements (Table 8). The abandonment of the program was precipitated by a major social
unrest, following announcement of policy to decontrol prices of the "breakfast" maize meal,
consumed mostly by the high-income groups. and to shift subsidies for the "roller' maize
meal, consumed mostly by the poor. from the marketing parastatal and cooperatives to
millers. The unrest was exacerbated by Government's failure to ensure that firm
implementation arrangements regarding payment of roller meal subsidies to millers were in
place before announcing the policy change. Faced with the uncertainties on the issue, many
of the millers stopped producing roller meal. The result was a socially explosive situation as
the prices of breakfast meal more than doubled overnight while at the same time serious
shortages of roller meal became wide-spread (para 13).
6.     The abandonment of the program was accompanied by a general reversal of previous
policy reforms and de-privatization of all except the small maize mills, and suspension of
Zambia's withdrawal rights after the country stopped servicing Bank loans (para 14).
Project Results and Impact
7.     The project helped to finance imports of capital gwods and spare parts, thus enhancing
the country's production capacity for all sectors. During the period when the reform program
was in full swing, agriculture recorded a growth rate above the normal level; and production
of export and import-substitution crops increased substantially, thus helping to slow down
deterioration of the country's balance of payments (para 18). Also, maize production shifted
according to comparative advantages between the large commercial farmers and smallholders
and between geographical areas (para 19). Reduction of subsidies helped to slow down
deterioration of the country's fiscal position (para 21). Reforms to decontrol maize marketing
and prices were just starting to be implemented when the Government abandoned the entire
reform program. Had the reforms been allowed to run their full course, the project impact
would have been much more positive.
8.    It has not been considered meaningful to attempt a calculation of an ex-post economic
rate of return, given the difficulties in determining accurately the end-use of the project funds
and the fact that the decision to use the project funds for general imports transformed the
project into virtually a balance of payments supporn operation. It is, however, reasonable to
expect that farmers took advantage of the inputs financed by the project to undertake
investments which yielded good tinancial rates of return; and that, by eliminating distortions



v
due to currenjy over-valuation, the market-determined exchange rate helped to ensure that the
economic rates of return were correspondingly g-od.
Project Sustainability
9.      The project's achievements are sustainable provided that the reforms envisaged under
the project are resumed and allowed to run their full course. With Bank support through the
Economic Re 'overy Credit approved by the Bank's Board in March 1991, the Government
has resumed implementation of all the policy reforms envisaged under the project (para 24).
The Government's commitment now appears sufficiently strong to give reasonable
expectations that the resumed reforms will be allowed to run their full course. Continued
commitmenw to the resumed reforms has been enhanced by the fact that the reform program
has incorporated measures to address the main factors which led to the abandonment of the
reforms under the project. These measures include a coupon system to target maize meal
subsidies to the poor and other vulnerable groups, actions to ensure that adequate maize
stocks are in place before decontrolling maiie prices so as to avoid sharp increases in
consumer prices, and a program to expand availability of hammer mills in rural areas in order
to reduce the cost of maize meal.
Fitndings and Lessons Learnt
10.    There are three important lessons from the project. One, if socio-economic conditions
under which the reforms were conceived deteriorate drastically, as it happened under this
project in terms of the general cost of living, at least a crash program should be put in place
to alleviate the negative impact on the atfected groups (paras 25 and 33). Two, equal
attention needs to be paid to implementation process as to the policy reforms per se. Had
implementation mechanisms for re.inbursing roller meal subsidies to millers been firmly in
place before the reforms were announced, millers would not have stopped producing roller
meal and the extent of the riots which led to the abandonment of the reform program would
have been minimized (para 29). Three, partial iberalization among sectors may lead to
allocation of resources in a manner which is inconsistent with the long-term comparative
importance of the main economic sectors. Due to continued control of maize prices,
agriculture could not compete successfully with the other sectors for the project funds at the
foreign exchange auctions. As a result, the amount of project funds going to agriculture was
proportionately less than implied by the sector's long-term importance in the economy. This
was an undesirable outcome, given the urgency to accelerate agricultural development which
is the main sector with long-term potential to diversifying the economy from the heavy
dependence on the dwindling mining sector (paras 16, 17 and 34).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1545-ZA A5-ZA)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name             : Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.          1545-ZA; A5-ZA
RVP Unit
Country            Zambia
Sector           : Agriculture (later all sectors)
Background
1.    General: The project originated from discussions between Zambian officials and an
IDA mission which visited Zambia in March 1983 in connection with agricultural sector
work. A follow-up IDA mission visited Zambia in August 1983 to assist the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) with project preparation. The project was subsequently appraised in
November/December 1983, negotiated in August 1984, and presented to the IDA Board in
January 1985. The Development Credit and Project Agreements were signed in March 1985
and became effective in August 1985. In November 1985, IDA approved an additional credit
of US$ 10 million equivalent from the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African
Facility). This credit became effective in December 1985. Both credits closed in June 1988
as scheduled.
2.     As indicated in Table 6, other co-financiers were expected to support the project. The
African Development Bank (AtDB) was expected to provide US$ 23.4 million; the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), US$ 6.8 million; the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), US$ 5.0 million; the Swiss Governnent, Sfr 10 million;
the Dutch Government, US$ 3.0 million; and the Japanese Government, Yen 600 million. At
the end of the project, the USAID and Dutch funds had been fully disbursed; US$ 12 million
had been disbursed from the AtDB loan, Sfr 8.3 million from the Swiss funds, only Yen 90
million from the Japanese funds, and nothing from the CIDA funds. I/ The Swiss and
Japanese funds were administered by IDA and the reasons why they were not fully disbursed
are given in para 11 below.
I/ AfDB funds were fully dibbursed in 1991 and amounted to US$30.5 million



2
3.     Sectoral Cont: A major concern at appraisal was that, for many years, the growth
of Zambia's agriculture remained far below its potential. Despite a climate generally
favorable for the cultivation of a wide range of crops, only about 12 million hectares or 20%
of total arable land was cultivated, Total agricultural output was growing at only 1% per
annum compared to annual population growth of 3%. The country was becoming
increasingly dependent on imported food. The contribution of agriculture to real GDP had
declined to about II % from 14% at Independence twenty years earlier. The economy
depended overwhelmingly oti the mining sector which faced a grim future in view of declining
volume of copper deposits and quality of copper ore. The Government's overall objectives
for agriculture sought to accelerate the development of the sector in order to increase rural
incomes and diversify the economy from the heavy dependence on mining. The sector's
contribution to these objectives remained disappointing due to several constraints.
4.      These constraints included inappropriate pricing policy, particularly for maize which
is by far the most important crop; over-valued currency; inefficiencies in output marketing
and input distribution system; heavy maize and fertilizer subsidies; and shortage of farm
machinery, implements, ancl other imported inputs. Maize producer prices were kept low
while consumc.- prices were heavily subsidized to provide cheap food for the urban
population. The level of subsidies, combined with pan-territorial prices, distorted the
cropping patterns, reduced efficiency of resource use, and strained the fiscal position to the
extent that left essential agricultural services with little budgetary funds especially for
recurrent expenditures. The marketing of the major crops and distribution of inputs, notably
fertilizers, were monopolized by a parastatal, the National Agricultural Marketing Board
(Namboard), and co-operatives, thus stifling competition and efficiency. Due to a severe
strain on the budgetary resources, the operations of both Namboard and cooperatives were
seriously hampered by increasing delays in the release of subsidies and by the fact that, when
they were eventually released, subsidies were frequently inadequate to cover output marketing
and input distribution costs. With the collapse of copper prices in 1975 and subsequent
escalation of oil prices, the country faced a persistent deterioration in the balance of
payments. Foreign exchange constraint inhibited importation of critical agricultural inputs,
notably farm machinery, implements, crop-protection chemicals, and packaging materials.
The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project was designed to address some of the above constraints.
Project Objectives and Description
5.     The primary objectives of the project originally were to stimulate agricultural growth
in order to increase rural incomes and diversify the economy from the heavy dependence on
mining. The project was to achieve these objectives through measures to improve the policy
framework for the agricultural sector; and to ensure availability of key imported inputs so as
to enable farmers to respond positively to the improved policy framework. The policy
reforms centered on enhancing efficiency of the output marketing and input distribution
system through: (a) developing and adopting a methodology for relating producer prices to the
border-price equivalents, regionally differentiated to reflect varying regional comparative
advantages; (b) decontrolling wheat prices immediately; (c) phasing out maize and fertilizer
subsidies over a period of three years after which full private sector's participation would be
allowed in the marketing of all agricultural commodities and fertilizer distribution trade;
(d) improving efficiency of Namboard and cooperative; and (e) adjusting charges for the
Government tractor hire services to full-cost recovery. To ensure availability of key imported
inputs, the project funds were to ifinance mainly tractors, farm machinery and implements,



3
spare parts, and animal drawn implements. Other items to be financed by the project
comprised smrn!!-scale irrigation pumps and fittings, farm trucks and trailers, hand tools,
various crop protection chemicals and herbicides, and packaging bags for fertilizers and
grains.
6.     The project also financed consultant services to carry out studies on maize marketing
and fertilizer distribution, and ways and means to improve the efficiency of Namboard and
cooperatives. Given the extraordinarily high consumption of fertilizers in the country, the
project was also to finance a study to identify the factors underlying the situation and how to
address them. It also supported establishment of a fund, the Swiss Kwacha Fund (SKF), from
the local currency gt, --ited by the Swiss contribution to the project and intended to finance
local costs of select'    icultuiral projects.
7.     The project objectives and design wcre based on the understanding that the project
was solely an agricultural operation and would be disbursed over a three-year period. The
project objectives and design were substantially changed within six months when, to ensure
adequate funds for the weekly foreign exchange auctions, the Bank in February 1986 agreed
to a Government request to channel the project funds through the auctions and to allow the
funds to be used for all imports. The objectives of the project were thus changed to support
the exchange rate reform which was the central goal of the Industrial Reorientation Project
(Cr 1630-ZA) and which sought to achieve market-determined exchange rate through a
weekly auction of foreign exchange. From there on the project funds were channelled
through the foreign exchange auctions, pooled with funds from the Industrial Reorientation
Project and several other sources, and. except the Japanese funds (para 11), used to finance
all imports subject to a short negative list. These changes, which had not been foreseen at
appraisal, fundamentally altered the project design and objectives to the extent that, from then
on, the project ceased to be an agricuiltural operation except with regard to the sectoral policy
reforms. The project became essentially a balance of payments support operation.
Project Organization
8.     The organization and management arrangements as envisaged at appraisal were
intended to ensure that the project funds will be used only for agreed agricultural inputs and
adequate documentation will be maintained to show the end-use of the project funds. The
primary responsibility for allocating foreign exchange funds and ensuring proper
documentation of the end-use of the project funds rested with the Bank of Zambia (BOZ)
where a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was set up specifically for the project. The
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was responsible for implementing the policy reforms and
related studies. A ProjeLt Implementation Committee (PIC), composed of representatives
from the relevant agencies, was set up as required. The most important function of PIC was
to ensure that the project funds were used for the intended goods. To this end, PIC was to
screen and approve applications for foreign exchange from interested importers. To qualify
for allocation of foreign exchange, applications were to include only the goods specified under
the project and provide sufficient information to facilitate, among other things, accurate
documentation of the end-use of project funds. Importers were required to submit to PIU
reports on the type of goods -ventually delivered into the country.
9.      Since a cardinal objective of the foreign exchange auction was to make it function as
closely as possible to a free market system, the above implementation arrangements were



4
discarded or proved impossible to comply with after the decision to channel the project funds
through auctions. From there on, dttention focussed on ensuring that enough funds were
available to meet the amounts needed at the weekly auctions, items in the negative list were
excluded, and bidders deposited the required Kwacha amounts and paid to BOZ the Kwacha
equivalent of the involved foreign exchange. PlU's main task became simply to maintain a
record of the auction proceedings, notably the amounts of funds sold, the market clearing
exchange rate, and amouints of toreign exchange to be credited to the accounts of the winning
bidders. One of the results from these changes was major difficulties in documenting the end-
use of the project funds, the only ascertainable fact being that US$ 10 million was used to
finance oil imports andc about US$ 300,000 was used for studies (para 32).
Project Implementation
10.     General: The project effectiveness was behind schedule by two months. This delay
was due to problems in finalizing the staffing of the Project Implementation Unit and the
terms of reference for the maize marketing and fertilizer distribution study. The studies were
completed after a short delay. BecaLise inputs financed by the project were to be procured by
a wide range of private trading houses, the normal Bank's procurement procedures were not
required and importers were free to prociure goods through normal commercial channels.
Disbursement progress was initially slow partly because the project funds became available
late in the planting season. Following the changes to allow the project funds to finance
general import, the demand for and disbursement of project funds increased tc the extent that
by the time Zambia's withdrawal rights were suspended in May 1987 virtually all IDA funds
had been fully committed. By the time the project closed in June 1988, only SDR 0.84
million from the IDA Credit and SDR 0.15 million from the African Facility remained
undisbursed and were therefore canceled.
Il.    As indicated in para 2 above, about 17% of the Swiss and 85% of the Japanese
funds, which were administered by IDA under the Special Facility for Africa, remained
undisbursed. The low disbursement of the Swiss funds was entirely due to the curtailment of
the project period by about a year. tollowing the abandonment of the reform program in May
1987. While the curtailment of the project period was a contributing factor, the low
disbursement of the Japanese funds was mainly due to the fact that their use, as specified in
Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement, was restricted to agricultural transport items. This
impacted negatively on the use of these funds as the sharp depreciation of the Kwacha,
combined with controlled producer maize prices, severely depressed the effective demand for
imported agricultural inputs relative to other imports (para 17). Following the resumption of
the reform program by the Government of Zambia early in 1991, the closing dates of the
respective agreements for the Swiss and Japanese funds have been extended. The Swiss funds
are expected to be fully used by June 1992 on mining equipment. With decontrol of
agricultural producer prices under the recent Economic Recovery Credit, the demand for
imported agricultural inputs is expected to increase and the Japanese funds are expected to be
fully used by October 1992 in accordance with the Grant Agreement.
12.    Policy Ret'orrns: Table 4 summarizes implementation progress of policy reforms and
related actions as set out in the Development Credit Agreement. Before the Government
abandoned the reform program in mid-1987, good progress was being made in implementing
the policy changes envisaged under the project. Maize subsidies were reduced as agreed in
1985 and 1986; official producer prices for other crops became floor prices and private



5
traders were allowed to deal in the marketing of these crops. A methodology relating prices
to the border-price equivalents was developed and adopted but its application was rendered
impossible by th.e sharp and frequent changes in exchange rates under the weekly auctions.
Fertilizer subsidies were reduced as agreed in 1985 but less than agreed in 1986. Charges for
the Government tractor hire services were adjusted during the first two year but continued to
fall below the agreed levels in the face of sharply increasing fuel and other operating
expenditures as a result of the depreciation of the Kwacha. Implementation of the
recommendations of the study aimed at facilitating private sector's participation in maize
marketing and fertilizer distribution was just starting when the entire reform program was
abandoned.
13.    The abandonment ot the reform program was precipitated by major social unrest and
riots, following a simultaneoLus announcement of two reforms. One of these reforms involved
im.iediate decontrol of consumer prices of the premium quality maize meal, known in
Zambia as breakfast meal, which is consumed mostly by the high-income groups. The second
involved shifting the subsidies on the lower-quality type of maize meal, known as roller meal
and consumed mostly by the poor, from Namboard and cooperatives to millers. These
changes were consistent with the recommendations of the maize marketing study.
Unfortunately, the Government announced these policy changes before firm arrangements
were in place as to how. when and by whom millers would be reimbursed subsidies related to
roller meal. Faced with these uncertainties, most of the private millers stopped producing
roller meal. The result was a socially explosive situation as the prices of breakfast meal more
than doubled overnight while at the same time serious shortages of roller meal became wide-
spread.
14.    The abandonment of the reforms was accompanied by a general reversal of previous
po!icy reforms, including the abandoning of foreign exchange auctions, with the exchange rate
fixed at about a third of the level attained in the last auction; rescinding decontrol of breakfast
meal prices; and de-privatizing all except the small maize mills. However, measures
concerning the marketing and pricing of crops other than maize were maintained. In addition,
Zambia's withdrawal rights were suspended in May 1987 because the country stopped
servicing L nk loans and credits.
15.    The Swiss Kwacha Fund (SKF): SKF was to be administered by a Kwacha Fund
Committee under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of MOA. It was to be used to
support agricultural proje ts and programs, including credits, as may be proposed by MOA
for the benefit of the relatively smaller smallholders. Due to documentation problems, it was
not until towards the end of 1986 that the Fund was funded with some K 33 million. Only K
6 million was utilized, all for credit, by the time the Government abandoned the reform
program. As a result, the balance of some K 27 million has since been lying in an interest-
free account at BOZ. Largely because of frequent staff changes, the officials concerned with
the use of the Fund have not been aware of its existence.



6
Project Results and Impuct
16.    Availability Qf Imported Inputs: Project funds enabled the country to finance imports
of capital goods, including essential spare parts, as well as raw materials for all sectors. This
helped to enhance the country's production capacity. Due to lack Zf documentation, it is not
possible to accurately ascertain the end-use of most of the project funds among various
sectors. General indications suggest that only about a third of the project funds went to
agriculture. Consequently, the project impact on improving availability of imported inputs in
agriculture fell far below appraisal expectations. This is attributed to two factors. Based on
estimated annual demand for inputs to be financed by the project, appraisal envisaged a three-
year disbursement period whereas the decision to use the project funds to support the foreign
exchange auctions transformed the project into a quick-disbursing operation. A more
fundamental factor, conveyed by commercial farmers' representatives and importers of
agricultural inputs, is that the bulk of agriculture could not successfully compete for funds
with the other sectors at the foreign exchange auctions for the reasons indicated in the
following paragraph.
17.    The bulk of agricultuire consists of maize production which uses most of the
imported capital and recurrent inputs in agriculture. To ease the negative effects of the policy
reforms on the poor, the Development Credit Agreement provided for elimination of maize
subsidies over a period of three years after which maize prices and marketing would be
decontrolled. Meanwhile, between the introduction of the foreign exchange auctions in
October 1985 and the next cropping season in 1986, the Kwacha depreciated by more than
fivefold; before the following cropping season in 1987, it had depreciated by tenfold. Since
maize prices continued to be controlled at levels determined long before the cropping season,
the bulk of agricultural producers, unlike the suppliers of the industrial and other
commodities, could not freely pass on to consumers the higher costs of inputs arising from the
sharp depreciation of the Kwacha. The result was a depressed effective demand for imported
agricultural inputs relative to other imports.
18.    Agricultural Production:  During 1986 when the reforms under the project were in
full swing, the sector grew at rate well above the normal level. In real terms, the sector grew
by about 8.7% between 1985 and 1986, compared to about 3.5% between 1983 and 1985.
General observations and information from farmers and importers suggest that most of the
project funds going to agriculture were used to expand the production of export and import
substitution crops whose domestic prices were not controlled. These included wheat,
groundnuts, sorghum and horticultural products. Import substitution crops such as wheat and
sorghum benefitted signiticantly from both the decontrol of domestic prices and the sharp
depreciation of the Kwacha. They recorded sharp increases during the project period, with
wheat production increasing by about 250% and sorghum by 300% between 1985 and 1987.
Mainly due to technical constraints in the form of poor seeds, the production of one of the
other major import-substitution crop, sunflower, continued to decline. Export crops, notably
groundnuts, tobacco and horticultural products similarly benefitted from price decontrol and
depreciation of the Kwacha. Groundnut production rose by about 330% while tobacco rose
by 40% between 1985 and 1987. However, primarily due to depressed world prices and high
costs of agro-chemicals, production of one of the major export crops, seed cotton, did not
increase significantly.
19.    With regard to maize, production remained heavily dependent on weather conditions.
Compared to the year before the project, maize production increased by 10% in 1986 but



7
declined by 6% in 1987. The reforms under the project brought about two important
structural changes. First, the high cost of imported inputs as a result of the depreciation of
the Kwacha reinforced a shift from the large commercial farmers to smaliholders who use
much less imported inputs in maize production compared to commercial farmers. It is
estimated that smallholders' share of the total maize production increased by about 7% during
the project period. This shift was in line with comparative efficiency between the two
farming systems in terms of domestic resource cost. Second, reduction of subsidies and
prevalence of some regional differentiation of maize consumer prices changed relative costs
and benefits, leading to shifts in maize production towards the maize-deficit provinces. For
example, as a proportion of total production, maize output in the Copperbelt rose threefold
and in the Western Province by about 30% between 1985 and 1987; other maize-deficit
provinces which recorded a favorable shift in maize production during the period included
Northern, Northwestern and Luapula. The shifts were accompanied by increase in the
production of other grains, notably millet, better suited to some of the maize-deficit areas.
20.    Had the reforms been allowecl to run their full course, leading to complete decontrol
of maize and fertilizer prices, with till participation by the private sector in maize and
fertilizer trade, distortions and inefficiencies in the use of resources would have been
eliminated. The above structiural changes would have been advanced further and aggregate
agricultural production increased much more.
21.    Reduction of Suibsides and Budgetary Impact: Although consumer maize and
producer fertilizer prices were increased appreciably, the gap between costs incurred and
prices received by Namboard/cooperatives continued to widen as inflation rose.
Consequently, total subsidies did not decline as envisaged at appraisal. However, the
situation would have been worse in the absence of the actions taken under the project to
reduce subsidies in 1985 and 1986. This conclusion is vindicated by the facts that whereas,
as a percentage of Government expenditures, subsidies rose from an average of 7.2% during
the two years before the project to 8.2 % during the two years under the project (1986-86),
they rose sharply to 14.5% during the two years following the abandonment of the reform
program (1987-88). The project thus helped to slow down the deterioration of the country's
fiscal position.
22.    Economic Rate of Return:  It has not been considered meaningful to compute an ex-
post economic rate of return for the project. At appraisal the economic rate of return was
estimated at 59% under the assumption that about 75% of the project funds would be used for
tractors and other farm implements. Apart from the lack of accurate documentation of the
end-use of the project funds, calculation of a meaningful rate of return is rendered difficult by
the fact that the decision to channel project funds through the foreign exchange auctions and
to finance all imports changed the project into virtually a balance of payments support
operation. It is however, reasonable to expect that farmers took advantage of the inputs
financed by the project to tindertake investments which yielded good financial rates of return;
and that, by eliminating distortions due to currency over-valuation, the market-determined
exchange rate helped to ensure that the economic rates of return were correspondingly good.
Project Sustainability
23.    Imported Inputs and Production Capacity:  As noted above, the project funds enabled
the country to finance imports of some capital goods and spare parts badly needed to improve



8
production capacity in all sectors. The project thus achieve an impact on production capacity
which can be sustained for some years until the time comes for replacements. With regard to
agriculture, the project contr ibuted towards the long-term sustainability of this capacity by
beginning to shift production in favor of export and import substitution crops (para 18). To
that extent, the project helpedl towards increased earnings and savings of foreign exchange
resources to finance future needs for spare parts and eventual replacements of capital inputs.
24.    Policy Reforms: The project's achievements were largely truncated by the
abandonment of the reform program in mid-1987. These achievements are, however,
sustainable provided that the retorm program is resumed and allowed to run its full course.
Under the Economic Recovery Credit approved by the Bank's Board in March 1991, the
Government has resumed implementation of all the policy reforms originally envisaged under
the project. Actions taken recently include: substantial devaluation of the Kwacha and
adjustment of maize meal prices, introduction of a floor-price system for maize producer
prices; dismantling of Namboard; and allowing private sector's participation in the marketing
of all crops, including maize, and in importation and distribution of fertilizers. The resumed
reform program also providles tfor full decontrol of maize prices and re-privatization of the
maize mills taken over by the Government in 1987. The Government's commitment now
appears sufficiently strong to give reasonable e pectations that the resumed reforms will be
allowed to run their full course2/. While it will remain difficult to sustain these reforms
unless they show significantly positive results within a reasonable period, their sustainability
has been enhanced by the fact that the reform program has incorporated measures to address
the main factors which led to the abandonment of the reforms under the project. These
measures include a coupon system to target maize meal subsidies to the poor and other
vulnerable groups: actions to ensure that adequate maize stocks are in place before
decontrolling maize prices so as to avoid sharp increases in consumer prices; and a program
to make hammer mills available in all parts of the country in order to ensure supply of low-
cost maize meal throughout the country.
Bank Performance
25.    The Bank ensured that the Government was fully involved in project identification
and preparation work. The decision by the Bank to support the project was appropriate and
well-timed to complement the Industrial Reorientation Project and an IMF standby
arrangement. The Bank's flexibility in agreeing to Government's request to use the project
funds for general imports was soun(l. This enabled the country to sustain the exchange rate
reforms for a longer period than would otherwise have been possible. At negotiations, the
Bank was accommodating to the Government's concerns to the extent they were well founded.
Thus, the Bank agreed to a three-year phasing out of maize and fertilizer subsidies in order to
minimize the negative impact on the poor. The Bank was justified in insisting on immediate
elimination of wheat subsidies, considering that wheat subsidies benefitted mostly the high-
income groups in urban center. On the other hand, as a result of factors which could not be
foreseen at appraisal, the project implementation period was marked by sharp increases in the
cost of living3/. At appraisal. the low-income price index was rising by abouAt 18%
2/ There has been a slippage in decontrolling mai,e prvies but this is expected to be rectified after the general election in
October 1991.
3/ This was largely due to Government's failure to implement sound stabilization and demand management policies.



9
anrually. Compared to the appraisal period, the inde'x rose by 50% in 1985, by 215% in
1986, and by 325% 1987. Whatever the causes, the fact is that the steep rise in the cost of
living substantially altered the appraisal assumptions underlying the phasing of the subsidy
removal and the expected impact on the poor. In retrospect, once the sharp rise in the cost of
living became a reality, action should have been taken to ensure that at least a crash program
was put in: place to alleviate the negative 'mpact .n- the poor.
26.    As shown in Table 9, six supervision missions visited Zambia during the project life
to monitor implementation progress. Their input was found useful by the PIU and, before the
abandonment of the program, the missions contributed substantially in ensuring that the
agreed reform measures were taken. They also played a key role in initiating the use of the
Swiss Kwacha Fund by the cooperatives for credit to the smaller smallholders.
Borrower Performance
27.    There were initial delays in staffing the PIU and finalizing the terms of reference for
the marketing study. These setbacks were eventually resolved; the PIU was well-staffed
during most of the project life and the marketing study was eventually carried out. The PIU,
however, continued to experience serious documentation and accounting problems after it was
decided to channel project tmn(s throLugh the foreign exchange auction. As a result, audit
reports were not submitted to IDA on time. MOA was unable to come up with sufficient and
acceptable proposals on how to utilize the Swiss Kwacha Fund. The Swiss Kwacha Fund
Committee never became operational. Too frequent staff changes, especially in BOZ and
Ministries of Finance and Agriculture, caused some problems in project implementation as
new staff were generally unaware of the project objectives and required actions.
28.    Up to the time the program was abandoned, the borrower complied with most of the
covenants stipulated in the Development Credit and Project Agreements as amended (Table
8). There were delays in preparing project accounts and audit reports but these were
primarily due to documentation problems arising from changes in project implementation
arrangements.
29.    By hind-sight, the borrower performance was less than satisfactory in connection with
the maize price reforms that led to social unrest and riots (para 13). The borrower should
have ensured that implementation mechanisms and processes for reimbursing roller meal
subsidies to millers were firmly in place before the reforms were announced. This wo!ld
have removed the uncertainties which led many of the millers to halt production of roller meal
and would have, in turn, at least minimized the extent of the riots, thus giving little cause for
the abandonment of the reform program.
Project Relationships
30.    The project provided a vehicle for Bank-Government dialogue on sectoral policy
issues. Before mid-1987, relationships between the Bank and Government were agreeable,
with both sides prepared to accommodate each other's views on how to make the project
achieve the desired objectives. The relationship become severely strained and dialogue
between the two parties virtually collapsed when the Government abandoned the reform
program and simultaneously stopped servicing Bank loans and credits. The suspension
Zambia's withdrawal rights, however, did not affect the project much. By then virtually all



10
the IDA funds allocated to the project under the Credit and the African Facility had been
committed and disbursed. Relations between the two parties has recently improved and the
country is now current on servicing Bank's loans and credits.
Studies and Consulting Services
31.    Table 7 shows the three studies which were expected to be carried out under the
project, and their impact. One of the studies, the Fertilizer Consumption Study, was found
unnecessary since USAID had carried out a study which covered all the major aspects
envisaged under the project. The other two studies were carried out well, with assistance
from consultants, and were considiered satisfactory. The maize marketing and fertilizer
disLribution study has continued to serve as a useful basis for the recent resumption of the
reform program as indicate(d in para 24 above.
Project Documentation and Data
32.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) together with the project files and supervision
reports were well documented. The Development Credit and Project Agreements were well-
understood by all the concerned parties. These agreements were amended twice to reflect
changes in project objectives and to facilitate the channelling of project funds through the
foreign exchange auctions. These changes, which naturally had not beer, foreseen at
appraisal, rendered the SAR of little use as a document to guide the monitoring and evaluation
of the project progress except with regard to the sectoral policy reforms. The project lost its
identity completely and, as a result, the PIU found it extremely difficult to maintain accurate
documents on the use of the project fti .... Apart from the US$10 million used for oil and
about US$ 0.3 million for studies, the only accurate information that could be generated by
the auction system was how much of the funds from various sources was sold at the auction
and the resultant Kwacha proceeds. There was no way to readily ascertain the actual end-use
for most of the project funds. This led to serious difficulties in preparing project accounts
and audit reports. It was with major efforts that accounts were eventually prepared and audit
report submitted to IDA. Apart from the funds used for oil and studies, the audit report was
able to verify only that the project funds was sold to bidders at the auctions.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
33.    There are three important lessons from the project. One of them is that it is essential
to pay sufficient attention not only to the reforms per se but also to the implementation
process. Had implementation mechanisms for reimbursing roller meal subsidies to millers
been firmly in place before the reforms were announced, millers would not have stoppeci
producing roller meal and the extent of the riots which led to the abandonment of the reform
program would have been minimized (para 13 and 29). The second lesson is that should
conditions under which the reforms were conceived deteriorate drastically, as it happened in
the case of this project in terms of the cost of living, action should be taken to at least put in
place a crash program to alleviate the negative impact on the affected groups (para 25).
34.    The third lesson is that partial liberalization may create new distortions, thus
frustrating achievements of some of the desired results. Following liberalization of the
exchange rate while prices and marketing of maize continued to be controlled, the bulk of the
agricultural sector could not compete successfully with the other sectors for the project funds



I1
at the foreign exchange auctions (paras 16 and 17). A.  a result, the amount of project funds
going to agriculture was proportionately less than implied by the sector's long-term
importance in the economy. This was an undesirable outcome, given the urgency to
accelerate agricultural development which is the main sector with long-term potential to
diversifying the economy from the heavy dependence on the dwindling mining sector.



12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following are the borrower's comments on the Project Completion Report as prepared by
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme:
1) The objectives and design of the project were consistent with the major development
constraints and potential of the agricultural sector. The project financed imports of capital
goods and spare parts, thus enhancing the country's production capacity.
2) Project results and impact were complementary to national efforts designed to stimulate
accelerated production growth, farm incomes and diversification of the agricultural economy.
3) The report suggests that only up to one third of total project funds disbursed were availed
to the agricultural sector. This is rather unfortunate as the agricultural sector was the primary
target beneficiary as envisaged at appraisal. This could be attributable to general inability of
the agricultural sector to comnplete with other sectors due to fixed agricultural commodity
prices while foreign exchange auctioning resulted in sharp increases in the cost of imported
inputs. In recognition of similar situations, future projects should allocate targeted funds
exclusively for the agricultural sector.
4) Economic diversification during project implementation was hindered by insufficient
producer incentives for non-traditional exports, price controls, subsidies and reliance on
foreign exchange and trade restrictions. However, it is noted that the project contributed
significantly to !ong-term sustainability in production capacity resulting from a shift in
production in favour of export and import substitution crops. This diversification of the
agricultural production base has generated foreign exchange earnings and savings needed to
finance imported inputs in agriculltLure.
5) The timing of project start up was not appropriate with respect to agricultural crop seasons
and hence the slow initial disbursement process.
6) The implementation arrangements appear not to have facilitated efficient information flow
between policy makers and target beneficiaries. Documentation was a fundamental problem
in this regard. Implementation arrangements should have provided for explicit accountability
in foreign exchange allocations at Bank of Zambia. Similarly, coordination in policy
implementation must have been inadequate on procedures for accessing project funds by the
commercial banks and target beneficiaries.
7) The Swiss Kwacha Fund (SKF) resulted in a net balance of ZK 27 million unutilised for
credit by the time GRZ abandoned the reform programme. This amount, which has been
lying in the interest-free account at Bank of Zambia, has been committed to Nutrition and
Social Action Programme (SAP). The Government of the Republic of Zambia has no
objections to this effect. However, it is expected that the agricultural sector will benefit
sufficiently under SAP appropriations.
8) With outstanding debt repayment to the Bank now cleared, the Zambian Government
expects the World Bank to resume it assistance in resource mobilisation from other donors to
ensure adequate suppoirt to the Government's reform programme.



13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Title            Year o,l                            Purpose                                 Status
Industrial Reorientation      1985      Industrial policy and institutional reforms to raise capacity  Completed
Credit                                  utilization and exports; and technical assistance to restructure
INDECO's enterprises and public investments in industry.
Recovery Credit               IY86      Providing support to macro-economic and sectoral policy     Completed
Program                                 rdoinT
Economic Recovery             1991      Providing support to macro-economic and sectoral policy         Ongoing
Credit                                  reforms, including continuation of agricultural sector reforms
initiated under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project.
Table 2 - Project Timetable
D)ate Pliutated        Revised Date           Actual Date
Item                         Months        Year     Month       Year      Month        Year
Identification                  -           -                                3          83
Preparation                     8          83          -          -          8          83
Appraisal                      11          83          1         84          11         83
Credit Negotiations             3           84         7         84          8          84
Board Presentation              5          84         9 J        84          1          85
1        851
Credit Signature                                       -          -          3          85
Credit Effectiveness            6           85         8         85          8          85
Credit Corroletion              12          87                               12         87
Credit Closing                  6           88                               6          88
Source: Project Files.



14
Table 3 - Estimated and Actual IDA Disbursements
(US million)
......... SAR Estiaute ..........   ...... Revised Estimate 1/ .......  ............Actal  .....  Cumulative
Actual as %
IDA      Semester      Sesuesterly     Cumuulative     Sesuesterly      Cumulative       Semesterly       Cumulative    of Revised
FucaI                 Disbursenieuts   Disbursemesits   Disbursements   Disbursements   Disbursseata   Disbursements  Estimate
Year
1985/86      First          -                               5.9              5.9               --
Second         4.2              4.2             6.7              11.6            13.3             13.3            115
1986/87      First         4.8              9.0             8.1              19.7            15.5             28.8            146
Second         5.8             14.8             7.3             27.0              8.5             37.3            138
1987/8S      First         5.2             20.0             3.6             30.6              1.0             38.3            125
Second         2.5             22.5             3.4             35.0               -              38.3            109
1988/S9      First         2.5             25.0                                                               38.3
Source: World Bank.
1/ Includes US$ 10.0 million additional financing under the African Facility approved in
November 1985.



15
Table 4 - Implemenitation of Policy Reforms and Related Actions j/
Measures to be Adopted tiider the Credit                             Actual Course of Action
Adjusting prices of maize and fertilizers to reduce subsidies  Maize and fertilizer subsidies were reduced as agreed in
according to the following timetable:                        1985; maize subsidies were again reducad as agreed but
fertilizer subsidies were reduced slightly less than agreed in
-  to not more than two-thirds ol' fiil coats by Muy 1985;   1986. The reforms were abandoned in May 1987.
-  to not more than one-third ol' luill cobts by Muy 1986l
-  completely by May 1987.
Adopting (within 6 months aller the date of eftectiveness) a  The new price setting methodology was adopted but actual
new price setting methodology so that producer prices be     implementation, especially for maize, was mnde difficult by
determined in relation to border prices,                     sharp weekly changes in exchange rate at the auctions.
Adjusting charges for Government's tractor hire services to  Tractor charges were increased in 1985-86 but never to a
achieve full cost recovery by August 1986.                  level sufficient to ensure full cost recovery. The reforms
were abandoned in May 1987.
Undertaking (within 6 months aller the date of el'hI tivencss)  The study was abandoned because USAID had carried out a
an assessment of the factors under,ying the high             similar study covering all the relevant aspects.
consumption of fertilizers and implementing (within the
following 6-months) an action progranm agrced upon with the
Association.
Undertaking studies to improve efficiency of maize           The studies were completed with only minor slippage. One
marketing and fertilizer distribution systems and efficiency  of its main recommendations (i.e. transferring subsidies
of Namboard and cooperatives; and implementing studies'      from maize marketing agencies to the millers was
recommendations                                              imp!emented in 1986 but was rescinded later when the
reformn program was abandoned.
B"ead  m the Dlopmet Credit Aeejawct. Schedule 3.



16
Table 5 - Project Costs
...... Al)praial Estiutate ....... ..........  Actual 
Item                                l.ocal     Fureigoi   Total     Local      Foreign    Total   Totl Actual as %
Costs    Exchmige              Costs    Excbange                of Appraisal
Costs                          Costs
Farm Machinery Replacenents:
- Tractors             ?.8                       26.4     29.2      N.A.        N.A.      N.A.          N.A.
Tractor Implements                    i         8.2      9.2       N.A.        N.A.     N.A.           N.A.
- Ox-drawn Implements                0.1          1.4      1.5      N.A.        N.A.      N.A.          N.A.
Sub-total:                       3.9          36      39.9      N.A          7.0      N.A           N.A.
Spare Pans:
- Tyres                              0.2          1.8       2
- General Spare Parts                  1         8.4       9.4
Sub-total:                       1.2         10 2     11.4      N.A         10.0      N.A.          N.A.
- Agro-chemicals                       2         17.4     19.4       N.A         3.0      N.A.          N.A.
- Miscellaneous                      0.2          1.2      1.4       N.A
- Petroleum Products                   8           0         0       N.A        18.2      N.A.           N.A.
- Other Imports                        0           0        0        N.A        26.4      N.A.          N.A.
- Consultancy                          0         0.2       0.2        0          0.3       0.3           ISO
TOTAL COSTS:                     7.3          65      72.3      N A.        64.9      N.A.          N.A.
N/A = Data not available because when the project funds were channelled through foreign exchange auctions and opened up to all eligible,
including non-agricultural, imports, the project completely lost its identity.



17
Table 6 - Project Financing
(US$ million)
IPlaied    (%)    Revised    (%)         Disbuned at          (M)
(Credit                                 C!osing Date
Agreetuent)
A. IDA:
Expenditure Category
- Farrn Implements and Inputs            24.8               39.11/                  38.0
- Consultants' Serviccs                   0.2                0.3                     0.3
Sub-total:                         25.0       35      39.4       39            38.3 2/           60
S. Co-financing Institutious
- Swiss Oovernment                        4.8                5.33/                   4.4 4/
- AfDB                                   23.4               30.5 3/                  12.05'
- USAID                                   5.0                5.0                     5.0
- CIDA                                    6.8                7.6 I/                   -/
Netherlands                              -                 3.0                     3. 7/
-Jlapan                                 _                 4.6 3/                   0.7
Sub-total:                         40.0        55      56.0      54            25.8              40
C. Domestic Sources:
- Trading Houses                          7.4                7.4                     N.A. 8/
Sub-total:                          7.4        10      7.4        7            NA.             N.A.
TOTAL:(A+ B-C                         72.4       100     102.8     100           64.19/            too
Source: World Banak oad ISnak of Zambia.
1/    Difference due to additional US$ 10 million from African Facility and exchange rate movement,
Z/   SDR 0.84 million and 0. 15 million were canceled from credits 1545-ZA and AS-ZA meetively.
2/     Dif'erence due to exchange rate movement.
4/   SwFr 1.7 million or 17% of the total grant were not disbursed at the close of the project.
I/   Remainder of the loan was disbursed early in 1991.
6/   Disbursements of this grant started only in September 1990.
2/   Fully disbursed. Difference due to exchange rate variations.
I/   Data not available but presumably very little since only a fraction of the funds were disbursed under the original arrangements
before the foreign exchange auction system was staned.
2/   Foreign exchange financing only. Data for local currency financing not available.



18
Table 7 - Studies
Title                        i'larpuss                          Status                            Impact
I. Study of Agriculitiral    To improvc markcting elThciency of   Completed                        Prices of breakfast meal were
Marketing and Inputs     maize aind distribution of fertilizers                                decontrolled and subsidies on
Distribution             through improving cost-effectiveness                                  roller meal were transferred from
of Namboard and facilitating                                          Narnboard and Cooperatives to
panicipation by the private sector                                    the millers in 1986 in order to
enable private sector's
participation in msize mnarketing.
These reform were short-lived as
they were soon abandoned. Te
studies have provided a sound
basis for the recently resumed
reforms.
2. Study of Cooperatives     To improvc marketing efliciency of    Completed                       Actions were taken to improve
maize and distribution of fertilizers                                opention and financial
through improving cost-effectiveness                                  rmnagement of some of the
of Cooperatives and facilitating                                      Provincial Cooperative Unions
participation by the private secter
3. Ferailizer                 To analyze causes of the high      Was found unnecessary because      No discernible impact
Consumption Study          rerniliter consumption major aspects  USAID had done a fairly similar
relating to the use of fertilizers in    exercise.
Zambia.



19
Table 8 - Status of Covenants
Development Credit Agreements
Section                                   Short Description                                Complianel
3.01 (a)              ...  Carry out Part B I/of the Project through its            Full compliance
Ministry of Agriculture end Water Development
... provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
3.01 (bl              ...  Cause the Bank of Zambia to carry out its                Full compliance
responsibilities under the Project Agreement ..,
take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, services end other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Bank of Zambia to perform such obligations, ....
not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
3.02                ...  Establish and thereafter maintain a Project               Superseded with the
Implementa,;on Committee ... to provide                  introduction of the
coordination and policy guidance ... (for the            auction system.
execution of Part A of the Project).
3.03 (a)              ...  In carrying out Part B of the Project ... employ         Full compliance
consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such consultants
to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.03 (b)              ...  Cause all goods and services for Part A of the           Full compliance
Project financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project 2/.
3.03 (c) (i)                 Maintain records and procedures adequate to              Could not be complied
record and monitor the'progress of Part A of the         with ful;y due to
Project ... to identify the goods and services           documentation
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and          problems in identifying
to disclose their use in the Project.                    end-use of project
funds after decision to
channel funds through
foreign exchange
auction.
/   Pu B of the Prnpa rern to ihoranryung out of 2 *tudy on maize and fertilizer's marketing atd distbulnm sasm. Pat A of the Projctt rf  to the
provisib of forsip exchawis ror importu of artcultuul inpuu and. since the Amendmens of Februny 2, 1986. to g1au imnpos for prductive setm (see
amso (o>x 2 below).
Based an the Aamnlments of Psbnm, 25. 1986 the Borrower Wis allowed to utize the ucommited baelam of gm cXdt fat th r i of geues impoS
for Xhe poduti sectou. Coesumer and luxury goods. military equipment and specific i4m included in a sptive lis u    eigible.



20
3.03 tc) ii)             Furnish to the Association at regular intervals all   Complied with up to
such information the Association shall reasonably  the time when the
request concerning Part A of the Project.       reform program was
abandoned.
3.04                 From time to time ... exchange views with the    Full compliance
Association on the progress achieved in carrying
out project implementation.
3.05             ...  Publicize ... the amount of foreign exchange    Superseded with the
vvhich has been allocated by the Bank of Zambia   introdustion of the
to the specific trading houses and the types of  auction system.
gcods to be imported by them.
4.01 (a)               Maintain or cause to be maintained records       Full compliance
adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of Part B of the Project.
4.01 (b) (i)            Have the (above mentioned) accounts for each     Full compliance with
fiscal year audited ... by independent auditors  delays
acceptable to the Association.
4.01 (b) (ii & iii)        Furnish to the Association ... not later than four    Full compliance with
nmonths after the end of each such year, a      delays
certified copy of the report of such audit ... end
f.u. urnish such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Project Agreement
The Bank of Zambia will:
2.02 (a)          Establish and maintain Project Implementation Unit    Full compliance
(PIU) headed by an executive officer whose
qualification and experience are satisfactory to the
Association
2.02 (b)           Provide PIU with adequate facilities and support     Full compliance
2.04 (b)           Cause goods and services ... financed out of the     Full compliance
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purpose of t:-a Project
2.05 (b)           Maintain records ... to identify the goods and services   Could not be complied
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and       with due to
disclose their end-use                               documentation
problems after the
decision to channel
project funds through
foreign exchange
auctions



21
4.01 (a)           Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect ..    Complied with. For the
revenues and expenditures in respect of Part A of the   most part after the
Project, including ... all expenditures for which   decision to channel
withdrawals are requested on the basis of Statement    project funds through
of Expenditures                                     foreign exchange
auctions, records could
only show revenues in
terms of the Kwacho
generated from the
auctions and
expenditures in terms
of foreign exchange
funds sold at the
auctions.
4.02 (a)           Have (the above) accounts ... audited .. by          Full compliance but
independent auditors                                 with delaVs
4.02 (b)           Furnish to the Association ..., not later than four  Full compliance but
months after the end of each year. the report of the  with delays
auditors



22
Table 9 - Staff Inputs and Mission Data
Ststge of                   Seint by    %1ontli/yealr   No. of    Period   Specializatiou  Overall        Types of
Project Cycle                                        persons  igi Field   Represented   Performanice    Problems
(weeks)                     Rating
-Identirication              IDA          3/83          --                 AE, P, M
- Preparation                 IDA          8/83         5          4          FP, I
- Appraisal                   IDA          11/83        2          2         AE, A
Post-appraisal              IDA          2/84          1         2           AE
- Post-negotiations           IDA          10184         1         1           AE
- Supervision I               IDA          10/85        2          2         AE, A            2               p
- Supervision 2               IDA          2/86          1         2           AE            N.A.           N.A.
- Supervision 3               IDA          6/86          1         3           AE             2             P; D
- Supervision4                IDA          11/86        2          3         AE, A            2             P; A
- Supervision 5               IDA          3/87          1         1           AE             2            P; D, A
- Supervision 6               IDA          7/87          1         1           AE             2             P; A
- Project Completion        FAO!CP         9/90         2          2          E, F
Source: Project Files.
Expertise:           A = Aguiculturist; AE = Agro-economist; P = Agro-processing Expert; M =  Farm
Mehanization;
FP - Fcrjilizer Production Expert; I = Institution Expert; E = Econotnist; F = Financial
Types of Problems:           P = Policy rclatwd; D = Documentation; A = Accounting/Audit



23
A2TACHMENT I
COMMENTS FROM CO-FINANCIERS



24
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
WASHINGTON. D C 203
OCT 3 1991
Mr. F.I.H. Moreithi
Acting Chief
Agriculture Division
Southern Africa Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
ZAMBIA:   Agriclutural Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.1545-ZA) Project Completion Report
(PCR)
Dear Mr. Moreithi:
Thank you for sending us a copy of the subject PCR. We
appreciate the opportunity to comment on this report.
Based on a quick review of the PCR, we are in general agreement
with the findings and conclusions of the PCR. Nevertheless,
there are two points which I would like to make which might merit
minor revisions in the report. These are as follows:
1) The rapid increase in the cost of living cited in paragraph
24 and other places was largely due to the failure of the
Zambian authorities to adhere to their agreements with the
IMF concerning stabilization and demand management policies;
and
2) The discussion in paragraph 23 that Zambia is once again
back on the reform track has clearly been overtaken by
events.
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.
Yours sincerely,
Richard Harber
Economist
Office of Southern African Affairs



25
BANQUE AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ADIRESSE TtLGRAPHIQUE                                01 B.P. 1387  ABIDJAN 01
AFDEV ABIDJAN                                          C6TE D'IVOIRE
TtLtPHONE: 20.44.44
TELEX: 23717
23498
23263
FAX: 32.77.53                          RIFtRENCE.  X  ...
Mr F.I.H. Moreithi
Acting Chief, Agricultural Division
Southern Africa Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.   A
Dear Mr Moreithi,
ZAMBIA: Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Thank you for sending us a copy of the project
completion report for the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project in Zambia. As cofinanciers of the project we were
interested to have the opportunity to review the PCR, and to
compare the experiences of the World Bank's with our own.
As you know, an ADF PCR mission was recently in
Zambia, and we have now prepared our report on the project.
Our PCR touches upon many of the same issues and shares some
of the observations of your own; although it is probably a
more critical document, reflecting the particular problems
that ADF experienced with regard to its loan. However, as
one of the ADB Group's first such operations, the project
has provided us with a number of useful lessons for the
future. I have enclosed a copy of our report, which I hope
you may find of relevance to your own. Regarding your PCR,
we have the following comments.
First, the statement that the project "ceased to
be an agricultural operation except with regard to the
sectoral policy reforms" (para. 7.) does not do justice to
the central role that should be played by the policy
reforms. It is common practice today for agricultural sector
adjustment loans to focus almost exclusively on policy and
institutional reform measures, and to permit the funds to be
utilised for the importation of all goods and services,
subject only to a negative list of prohibited items. We do
not consider such loans any less "agricultural operations"



BHAQMU AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT   26
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
2
for that. It might therefore be a more fair statement to
indicate that what started out as an agricultural project
with policy-based conditions gradually became a type of
sectoral adjustment loan.
Second, it is true that Government failed to give
sufficient consideration to the immediate impact of shifting
the subsi"dies from breakfast meal to roller meal, and that
it was this lack of attention that led to the riots which
preciptated the abandoning of the reform measures. However,
with a weak institutional capacity within Government and
only lukewarm political support for the reform process, this
should not have been surprising. As is mentioned in the last
section of your report, more attention should have been paid
to the issues of implementation, and more support provided
to  Government   in  this   respect.   The  provision  of
institutional support, ie technical assistance, to the
Ministry of Agriculture might have helped Government to plan
the measures better, and so avoid such problems.
Third, the experience of the World Bank in
administering the Swiss Government's counterpart Kwacha Fund
is similar to ADF's own: the funds remained unutilised,
gradually losing their value over time (see our report,
sections 3.3 and 6.1.5). We concluded - with the benefit of
hindsight - that it would probably have been more
advantageous to have simply made the local counterpart funds
directly available to Government, rather than requiring that
they be tied to specific projects.
Fourth, we do not wholly agree with the
conclusions  drawn regarding the sustainability   of the
policy reforms (para. 23). Certainly, the achievements would
have been sustainable provided that the reform programme had
run its full course. But the fact is that it did not; and
the agricultural sector today remains in a precarious state.
For the maize sub-sector particularly, the momentum of the
reform years has been completely lost, and the problems of
production, marketing and subsidies are greater than ever.



. a0.              ,27
BANQUE AFRCAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
3
Fifth, the ADB Group concluded that tying loan
funds to the agricultural sector, as suggested in the
Borrower's section (para. 3) was not helpful to the reform
process. This issue is discussed in detail in our PCR
section 6.1.3.
A Lastly, we would point out that the entire ADF
loan was finally disbursed, although not until early 1991;
and that in US Dollar terms the value of the funds disbursed
finally amounted to US$ 30.5 million.
We hope that these comments and the PCR prove
useful to your exercise of finalising the report.
Yours sincerely,
E. Olsen, Director
Agriculture and Rural
Development Department
South Region



