Docmmt of
The World Bak
FooR OFFICALl USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY          C4              1c96 ' -4X
Report No. P- 529B-SE                                               RpwtNe. P-5298-SE
MITCHELL, f X3483'1 / J9 117/ AF51N
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
05 THE
PRESIDENT OF TRE
INTEERATIONAL DEVELOPMT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 49.9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE TRANSPORT SE-TOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROGRAM
MAY 16, 1991
N
Thi doctomat has a remticted distrbution and may be aned by recPient OulY hi the performne Of
hilr bffkial dpties its cqttcnt -may not otherwise be discosed wifthotWorld Bank autborlsatlo.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROGRAM
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January  1990)
Currency Unit  -    CFAF
US$1           =    CFAF 300
CFAF 1 million -    US$3,333
CFAF 1 billion -    US$3.33 million
FISCAL YEAR
For FY91 - 92: July 1, 1991 - December 31, 1992
starting FY93: January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)               -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km?)       0 0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)          -    2,205 pounds (lbs)
This report Is based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Mrs. Brigitta Mitchell (Senior Transport Economist, Mission Leader), Mr.
Amadou Cissa (Senior Civil Engineer), Mr. Michel Loir (Transport Economist/
Financial Analyst), Ms. Yvonne Powers (Financial Analyst), Mr. Roger Lebussy
(Railway Engineer), and Mr. Karim-Jacques Budin (Railway Engineer), who
visited Senegal in December 1989 to appraise the project. A post-negotiation
mission by Mrs. Mitchell and Mr. Cissa was undertaken in December 1990 to
assess the draft environmental impact study.   Mr. Peter Watson and Ms.
Katherine Marshall are the managing Division Chief and Department Director
for the operation; the lead advisor has been Dieter Havlicek. Mrs. Fanny
Barrett and Ms. Amy Gallagher provided secretarial support in the preparation
of the report.



FOR OFFICILU USE ONLY
RP  LIC OF SENGL
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTKEM  INVESTMENT MRo
Table of Contents
Pa*e nos.
Credit and Project Summsry  .. .. ................  .   i-v
1. TH  ECOof .vnu    .                      . .                      * * *             1
A.  Recent Economic Deve opment  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                I     
B. DevelotpmentPt Prescts .....:.:.:                               ..:..... *  2
C.  _overtment 1 -Medium-Ter  ir;vr*s                                        3
II.  MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT-PROGRAMS  . . . . .   . . . . .  . . . .  3
III.  MAIN ISSUES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND STRATEGY FOR ADDRESSING THEM . . . .  5
A. * ackaround   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  *  .  .  .  .  *  *  *  *  .  *  .  .  .  .  .*  .  .  5
B.  InvestmentP lannint andS tratea.  .......a         .o . ......    7
C.  TheInstitutional Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .*. .. .   8
D.  Financial Viabilit  and Ooerational Efficiency . . . . . . . . . . .  13
IV   THE PROJECT .  * . . . . . . . * *   * * . . . . . . * . . . . . .               19
A. Proaram Ob1ectives and Kev Actiors . ... ... ... .. .. . . . 19
3.   reit SizeandProaramCoumonegts . . . .  *              999              19
C.  Program and ProJect Cost Estmagtes and Financini t    . . .   . . . . 22
D. Im1em ntation                             ..e                   o   24
E.  Procurement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . . . . . . . 25
F.    bt8ursements                            *                              .......................*29
G.  Accountinand Auditina  .. ....... . .......                             31
H.  Reort      . . i    . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
I.  Imact -on Environment and Emlognyent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
J.  Proiect  ustif ication             .......................  32
V.  BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS            .       ........  ....... ......  35
A.  Country AssistanceeStrateao ............................... 35
3.  Bank GroupOperations2 Past and Future ... *.......... .....    36
VI.  COORDINATION WITH THE IMF     .   . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 39
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AIID RECOHMENDATION  .........               ........ .......  39
ANNEXES
I        Economic Indieat4re
IIs      Lettre de Politique Sectorielle
IIb     Action Program
III      SNCS (Railway) Financial Deta
IV       PAD (Port) Financial Data
V        AIR SENEGAL - Comptes Financiers
VI       ASECMA-SENEGAL - Financial Data
VII      Description of TSAIP Investment Component
VIIl    Cost Estimates and Financing Plan by Subsector
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJE^T FILE
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfor  nance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatinj



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDI     Canadian International                Agence Canadienne pour lI
Development Agency                   D;veloppement Internetional
ASECNA   Agency for Air Navigation Safety    Agence pour la Securito de le
Navigation Aorionne
BAD      African Development Bank              Banque Africaine de Developpement
BGR      Road Management Unit                  Bureau de G&.tion Routi're
BID       Islamic Dovelopment Bank             Banque Islamique de Doveloppement
BOAD     West African Development Bank         Banque Ouest Africaine de
Developpoment
CCCE      French Development Fund              Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique
CPTP     Public Works Training Center          Centre de Perfectionnement des
Travaws Publics
BERM     Office of Road Maintenance            Bureau de l'Entretien Routier
and Equipment                        et du Materiel
DTP      Directorate of Public Works           Direction des Travaux Publics, MINEQ
DRSP     Public Sector Reform Agency           Delegation a la R"forme du Secteur
Parapublic
DTT      Directorate of Land Transport         Direction des Transports Terrestres
ERR      Economic Rate of Return               Taux de Rentabilite Economique
FAC      French Development Aid Agency         Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED      European Development Fund             Ponds Europeen de Diveloppemeu>*
Fonds
CEDEAO  Development Fund of the Economic    Ponds de la Communaut; Economique
Community of West African States     des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
KFW      German Bilateral Aid Agency           Agence Al.emande d'Aide Bilatirale
(Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau)
m        Million                               Million
MINEQ    Ministry of Equipment, Transport    Ministere de l'Equipement, des
and Housing                          Transports et du Logement
MF       Ministry of Finance                   Ministere des Finances
MPC      Ministry of Plan and Cooperation    Ministere du Plan et de la
Cooperation
PAD      Dakar Port Authority                  Soci&te Nationale du Port Autonome de
Dakar
p-m      person-months                         personne-mois
RCFS     Senegalese Railways (before 1989)    Regie des Chemins de Per
du Senegal
RCFM     Mali Railways                         Regie des Chemins de fer du Mali
RF       Road Fund                             Ponds Routier
SNCS     Senegalese Railways                   Societe Nationale de Chemins de
(since Nov. 1989)                    Per du Senegal
SONATRA  AIR SENEGAL - National Airline        Societe Nationale de Transport
Aerien, AIR SENEGAL
tpy      tons per year                         Tonnes par annie
PNUD     United Nations Development            Programme des Nations Unies pour
Program                              le Developpement
voc      vehicle operating cost                Coat d'exploitation des vihicules
vpd      vehicles per day                      Vehicules par jour
v/km     vehicle-kilometers                    Vehicules-kilom1 tres



REPUBLIC OF 8ENGL
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUST IINVESMtENT PROGRAM
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Rnt. NO.                               Document Title
Road Cogeonent
1-1          Uinletbro de L'Equipm_nt - Pr parstion au Premier Projet
Sectorial de Transport - Compoeante Routl6re - Rapport: Synth&e
1-2         Mlnet*r. de I'Equipesmnt - Pr4poration au Prml-r Projet
Sectoriel de Transport - Composante routitre - Rapport:
Rentorcement des Chouss 4e
1-8          Ministbre de I'Equlpment - Pr6porstlon au Premler Projet
Soctorill de Transport - Composanto routl4re - Rapport: Teroes
de R4fMrnco
1-4           inis4tbro d  I'Equip   nt - Pr6parstion au Premier Projot
Swctoritl de Transport - Composanto Routl&ro - Rapport:
Assstwanc Technique et Fomatieon
1-C          Minltbre de I'Equlpement - Rapport: Etude compldmsntaire our le
Centre de Formation et de Perfectionn_ment - Projet d'AjuetOomnt
Sectorlol dbe Transport - Volume I: Le Rapport
1--          Minsetbre do I'Equipm.nt - Rapport: Etud. cpldm.nt.lr. our I-
Centre de Formation et de Porfectonnoment -
ProJet d'Ajustemnt Sectoriel d   Tr,nsports - Volume Is Les
Annexes.
1-7          1nst&re, deo I 'qulpment - Premier Projet Sectorlel do
Tranoport - Composant RoutilAro - Document de Support a la
Rdunlon des Beaileure do Fends.
14-           MinistAre de I'Equtlpemnt - Ageone Canadlenne do Dveloppoment -
Prora    do Coop6ration Industr il Is Volet 1 - Plan d'Actlon
du 1 DTP - Rapport olnIrel, Dec. loU
1-9          MinlstIre do l'Equtpem.nt - Agence Canadtenne de D4vloppement -
Programe do Coop6ration Industrioelle: Volt 1 - Annex 1 -
Orgaatnstion d'un o"Inalr. our I volot routlor du PAST, Doe.
S9W
1-10         Minlotbr. do IEqulp_ment - Agenc Conadtenne do D6veloppwment -
Programme do Coop6ration Industrillto - Volot 1 - Annex 2 -
Etude sommalre do Is cnpacIt6 des P.M.E. s6nfgalalse & rIollnsr
lag travaux d'entretnen routlor du PAST, Dec. 19O
1-11         Minitlre do l'Equlpemnt - Aence Canadlenne do Dvelopp N nt -
Programme do Coopiratlon Inddstietole, - Volot 1 - Annexe 8 -
R6organlsation do Is D.T.P. et do Is D.T.T. pour Is bonne
*xIcution du PAST, Dec. 1990
1-12         Minintre do l'Equtpmesnt - Agnce Conedienne do Dveloppoment -
Programe do Coop6rotion IndustrellI - Vol t 1 - Annexe 4 -
PrAparation db dossiers d'aoslstance technique & I* D.T.P. et A
Is D0T.T. pour Is bonne r6allesteon des setions du PAST,
De. 1990



Rot. Me.                              Document Titlo
1-18         Ministr do I'Eqopernt - Agence Comdlenne de D.wloppesn"t -
Progra_m de CoopOration lndugtriel b - Volot 1 - Annoxo £ -
pr Oloction doe entrepr lr s ot P.M.E. a6nagat.lai pour los
travaux d'ontrStlon routISr do Is caMpagno 1990 - 1991,
0.e. 1990.
1-14        1 alotbte do I *Equip_ent - Ages. Can1dionne do DSO loppeonnt -
Progm_  do Coop6ratlon Enduetriol to - Volot I - Annex"   -
Programation des trovaux d'Ontr.tl.n routor pour to c_ga-
199 - 1001, Dec. l0ow
1-15        Mia bltre do I 'Equlpeent - Agenc. Canadion  do   - * loppeount -
Program, de Cooprutton Indostrtiolt - Vol.1 1 - Ansxo 7 -
ModAlon do Cahtors do  Charge ot do Maroh trp ds travaux
d'ontrntitn courant A I'ontr.prls pour la capagn 1008 - 1991
Dec. 1990
1-10         MInlstro do I 'Equipemnt - Agec. Canadlonne d DJhvloppement -
Programme do Coop6ratlon Industriol l -
Volot 2 - Etude our tor habilitatlon .b la r1nforement do
catre do formation .t do perfectionnement 4. travaux publice.
Volume 1 - L. Rapport, Doe. 1090
1-17         MillloUAr d  I 'Equipemt - Ages. Canadl_am  do D6lelopp_met -
Programs do Coop6rAton IndustrIoll1 -
vol t 2 - Etude our I r6habilItation at I reotoro_met do
centre do formtlon st do porf.ctionreemt des travaux public*.
Volme 2 - Les annexes, DOe. 1090
1-1*         Minler. de l'Equipe_t - Mlodernistlon do  la Directlon de
Transport T*rrootre - Aide Mbolr .
2-1         Premi*r Projot Sectorial des Trnsport - Etude Forrowvlir. -
Mare 188
2-2          Premier Projeb Soctoriol des Transport - Etude Fbrrovliro -
Annto s - Tome I - More 180
2-8          Presier Projot Sectorl-l dee Transports - Etude Forrovtiir. -
Annexe - Tom _I - Mre 1088.
2-4          ProJot Se¢torill do Tran.port4Soction InfownstIqoe - Mol 1o8.
2-5          Premier Projet Sectorial des Transport. - Etude Controt Pln -
Projot do Rapport Final.
2 s          MinistAr d  I 'Equto_e nt - Soc1bt National. do Chasnm do
For - Contrat Plan - Mare 190.
2-7          IinlbtAr. do IEquipement - ROgio dbo Chbsln do For do
S6n val - 8lln au 8W Juln 1086.
2-8          Minltre do I Equlpsnt - R6g1o do. Chbmln do For do
SOrOgal - SilaS *u s Juln 1907.
2-0          MInitUr. do I Equipme_nt - Rdgie doo Ch elne do F*r du
S3nOgal - lnS SOu 89 Juin 1908.
2-10         MInIeUtr do IEGqupmonnt - R6gie do Chasms do For du
SOagal - Bilas au 80 Juln 100.
2-11         Mlnlstre do lVEqulp e.nt - Rgie dbe Chemins do For du
Ss6ga6l - Stlsn so 81 octobro 108.
2-12         MinitAr. do I EquIpoment - ROgl. deo Chemine do For d'J
SOnOgal - Rapprochebmot fichior - Imobillationo - octobre
1098.



Rtf. No.                              *Oocuw t Ttl4h
*-1          PerC Autonoso de D 4ke - Etude do Plan Op6rationnel Tec_lque
pour t'A AIlerOton du Fonctlonasmont do Port de Oskar - Phsw
Rapport  ntoru6ditare Dlcneostle
84l          Port Autonooe . Poknr - Etude du Plan 0p6.rtlonnol Tentoique
pour I'A Atoration do Fonctienosmnt do Port do Poker - Phase
tt - Tom It Plan DoAction
84$          Port Auteno  do hh*r - Etude de Plan Op6rtIonnI Tlechniqew
pour I '*AI beotlon do fonctionnent do Pert do Oskar - Phas
tt. Toe tt MAttvit6s ds Export. as Coors de Is Se1.ig. 
Etap .
S-4          soessed Conultaen  - Prolet Controle, do Getle. pour 1e Pert do
Oakar.
4Sesrd Consultnt - Projet do Coeptabit it6 Ann lytqeo peor ie
Pert Auto... do Dakar.
4@          SBossard Consltant. - Port Autonose  s Osakr - Doosser D'Etudes
t Projet r eletifs & lacisition des 4bdoo.o pour to
coptabl  lt6 flnoncl4r et & Is transition coeptabil It
EPZC/Carptabi IIt S*04t6 Nationale.
'-7          WInietSr do I'Equt _pent - Port Autenos do Dokar - Rbcoull do
Texte lighlatitf et r6glo_ eelres.
Civil Aviation Component
4-1          ASECNA - Convention - Status - Cabler dma Charges.
4-2          Orgnleation do l'Avietion Clvil* SOternationale - Etue sur lee
A6redroee du S6n6sol - Financ et Ade tstrotion ROapport
Pr611sinsmre.
4-4          Zstmttat do Transport * rlon - Le Tre _ort £6ie. a*u S6audgl -
Rapport S6tinitlf.
4-4          SOMATRA - SoclWt Nationale do Transports W6r1e. - Ml  pique ot
Analyse de Coptpe VAir SP 16a.
4-5          Air IdnAgal - L'lVeiUIQon per lor chlflr .
4W0          SOMATRA - Alr SA&dgal - Plan d'Entrpprol.
4-7         Atr ft$o6pl - Manuol do ProeAdr. Administrative et Fl a_ ire.
4-           Air SAnAgal - ReWon. do 1 Politi,u Con_erciale - Avar,
Rapport.
4-9          Air S&ndgal -  anueul do Procedures dlExploltatlon (Smooire)
4-1          Air SAniGpl - Spkcflicoatons DOEntretlen



REPUBLIC OF SERECAL
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUS TNTIIMVLSTMEN PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Government of Senegal
Credit Amounts              SDR 49.9 m (US$65 m equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard, with 40-year maturity
Co-Lenders:                 European  Development  Fund  (FED,  US$54.1 m
equivalent); African Development Bank (BAD,
US$23.8 m equivalent); West African Development
Bank (BOAD, US$18.0 m equivalent); Islamic
Development Bank (BID, US$11.5 a equivalent);
West African Development Fund (Fonds CEDEAO,
US$5.4 m equivalent); Unitad Nations Development
Program (PRUD, US$0.8 m equivalent); ASECMA
ART.2:    US$2.1 a    equivalent;    Canadian
International Development &-nociation (ACDI,
US$3.2 u   equivalent);  Caisse  Centrale  de
Coop$ration   Economique   (CCCE,   US$25.1 m
equivalent); Fonds d 'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC, US$3.3 m oquivalent); Government of Italyt
(US$32.6 a equivalent); and Government of
Finland: US$5 m equivalent (Special Fund for
Africa).
Priect Description:         The  project will  assist  the Government  in
rehabilitating   and   maintaining   essential
transpott infrastructure and in biproving
sectoral efficiency, including the strengthoning
of existing institutions as well as the adoption
of sound policy and regulatory measures. The
project covers the priority areas of the
Government's    FY91-FY95    total    sectoral
expenditure  program,     The  program  places
particular emphasie on road maintonance,
including reliable counterpart funding and
lnstitutional improvenrtts, and selective road
rehabilitation  of  national,  regional,  and
departmental roads. The project also Includes
road safety lprovements. Tho railway component
covers essential track maiLtonance and a
Contract  Plan  (CP)  to  Improve  manage-unt
autonomy and efficiency.   The port component
focusses on laplieintation of the  remaining



- it -
tasks under the operational and financial Action
Plan and on improved roadlrail access to th new
container terminal and rehobilitt ion of
dilapidated  utility  networks.      The  civil
aviation component iL%cludes rehabilitation to
essential safety standards of the Cap Skirting
and Ziguinchor runways, and assistance to
financial and operational action plans for AIR
SENEGAL and ASECNA-Senegal.  Additionally, the
project will finance technical assistance for
management support and training, and for the
implementation of agreed policy actions in the
sector.
Proiect Benefits and Riskss The project is designed to restore transport
sector efficiency by modetrnizing the sector's
administration,    restructuring    sector
parastatals, and halting the decay of transport
infrastructure for road, rail, maritime, and air
services   which,   if   unattended,   womld
incressingly deter economic activity, partic-
ularly in the Dakar arcua and hamper the
important transit trade. It will, thus, benefit
both the urban and rural populattons of Senegal,
as well as the economy of neighboring land-
locked Mali. Rehabilitation and msintenance of
roads and other infrastructure have very high
economic returns leading to substantial savings
of fureign exchange, as do improvements In road
safety.  The main project riskr are that the
Government may not be able to fully carry
through the institutional and policy aspects of
the projct, and resolve the constraints in
mobilizing   adequate   funding   for   road
maintenace. The possibility that low priority
investments will be carried oui with tbe support
of some donors is a much reduced risk at this
point.
These risks are considered acceptable in the
context of the technical assistance and
implamentation arrangements designed for the
project; thoy will be further reduced through
additional financial support and close project
monitoring under the adjustment component of the
project, through continued close coordination
with co-donors, and through reinforcing measures
under the ongoing structural adjustment program.



- III -
Suan  Panre Cost Natimate
fga1tocg daa         Taxe       Di
--------1----18$ mllion-------------
I. Xl   I    S      S3Il
load CoMponent                       197.2      79.7     68.6       345.5
Railway Component                     36.3      16.8      14.4       67.5
Port Component                        15.1       7.6      10.3       33.0
Aviation Component                    11.3       3.1      3.6        18.0
T=otal Base C0st                  259.9    10          6.9       464.0
Fhysical Contingcies                  31.7      13.3      11.9       54.9
Price Contingencies                   34.9      14.2      13.0       62.1
T1r ITVESNt COmENS                   326.5    114.7    121.8        flL.0
II DJUS  Cm                               20.0    -           -          I0
UII.  ROJPCT PAPAMTION FACILITY             14       -         _      
?O¶'AL P121OUA?4 COST                 ML.B   JIM.i.     1aA 2  hMiA



- v -
Pinancina Pla
Foretan    Loeal       Taxes sTota
---------------US$ million------------
:. Inveotment Component
IDA                                          44.5       4.0                   4BPS
FED                                          38.0       16.1                  54.1
BAD                                          23.8                             23.8
BOAD                                          18.*0                           18.0
BID                                           11.*5                           11.5
Fonds CEDEA0                                  5.4                              5.4
PNUD                                           0.8                             0.8
ASECNA ART.2                                   1.8         -        0.3        2.1
ACDI                                           3.2                             3.2
CCCE                                         20.0        5.1                  25.1
FAC                                            3.3                             3.3
Italy                                        27.4       5.2                   32.6
Subtotal                                     197.7      30.4       0.3       228.4
Other Donors (Gapj                          (71.5)                          (75.5)
8NCS (Senegal Railways)                       4.4       10.4       16.6       31.4
PAD (Dakar Port)                               4.6       8.8       12.0       25.4
ASERCNA ART.10112                               -        2.2        4.0       6.02
Government:
(Road Fund)                                44.2      50.2                   94.4
(Investment Budget)                                  32.7                   32.7
Taxs  on Road Component:                                          88.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COMPONN                    326.4    134.7        121.9      583.0
.I. Adjustment Component
IDA                                           15. 0                           155 0
Finland                                        5.0                             5.0
TOTAL ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT                   20.0                             20.0
III.  IDA (PPF)                                      1.5                             1.5
Zh 0  3A7           Mad --2ii



- V ft
Lot imated IDA Disbursemants
Bank Fiscal Yeas                       1992     Ifl    j§j4    1995    1996  tgp_
I.   Investments a/
Annual                             5.6    15.3    14.4    13.7       1.0   50.U
Cumulative                         5.6    20.9    35.3    49.0    50.0
II.  Adiustment
Tranche Releases                    2.0 k/ 6.5      6.5                    15.0
Cumulative                          2.0    8.5    15.0
III. TOTAL CREDI'2
Annual                              7.6   21.8    20.9    13.7       1.0   65.0
Cumuiative                          7.6   29.4    50.3    M4.0    65.0       -
a/ Based on West Africa Region transport investment and maintenanco.
bl In addition to US$5.0 million equivalent from Finland SPA Funds.
Rates of Return (S)
Rangings
Paved Road Strengthening Program                           14S - 872
Periodic Maintenance of Paved Roads                        131 - 26Z
Periodic Maintenance of Gravel Roads                       122 - 361
Routine Maintenance Programs paved roads                   201 - 30S
Routine Maintenance Progr-p.: gravel roads                 202 - 301
Railway Track Rehabilitation                               121 - 161
Maw: IBRD 20880



INTERNATIONAL DEmVLOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO T5E EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR A
TRANSPCRT SECTOR ADJUsmENTINVTs PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Senegal in the amount of SDR 49.9
million (US$65.0 million equivalent) for approval. The proposed Credit would
be on standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity and would help finance a
Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Program (TSAIP). It is proposed to
supplement this Credit with a grant ^%f Firmark 20 million (US$5.0 million
equivalent) under the Special Program of Assistance for Debt-Distressed, Low-
Income Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Cofinancing for the project would
include BAD, FED, BID, BOAD, CEDEAO FUN?, UNDP, French CCCE and FV., ACDI
(Canadi, Italy, and Belgium.
I. THE ECONOMY
2.        The following assessment of the Senegalese economy is based on the
President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Program (SAL IVs Report P-
5185-SE) distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1990, and on the
findings of missions that visited Senegal in 1989-91 to help the Government
implement its macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment programs and prepare its
various Policy Framework Papers, the latest of which was considered by the
Committee of the whole in late May  1991.   Annex I contains economic
Indicators.
A. Recent Economic Development
3.        Since the adoption of a Medium-Term Economic Recovery Program
(1985-92), Senegal has undertaken a series of measures to stabilize its
financial situation, improve resource mobilization and allocation, liberalize
trade and pricing, and alleviate poverty. These measures, combined with
favorable weather conditions, which led to increases in agricultural
production, have contributed to noticeable economic improvementst between
1984 and 1988, real GDP grew at an average rate of 4.3 porcent p.a., compared
to the long-term trend of 2.5 percent and a population growth rate of 2.9
percent over the same period. The resource gap has been shrinking, though It
still remained at 5.0 percent of GDP in 1988. Prudent demand management
policies helped retduce inflation to less than 3 percent gad arrested the
trend towards real exchange rate appreciation.
4.        In spite of these improvementa, the Government's fiscal situation
resaains fragile, as evidenced by the significant shortfall in fiscal revenue
in 1989 and 1990. The combination of a weak oconomy and social disturbances
related to the border conflict with Mauritania caused tax revenue shortfalls
of 13 percent compared to the financial program target In 1989 and of 7.6
percent in 1990. The shortfall in tax revenue has necessitated an Increase
in certain tax rates. The Government budget also relies heavily on the tax
on petroleum products whose domestic prices have been kept unchanged since
world oil prices reached a peak in the mid-19809. Petroleum tax revenues



accounted for about one fourth of total Government revenue in recent years.
Excessive reliance on petroleum taxes introduces a high degree of uncertainty
in the budgetary situation and also imposes a heavy burden on the economy by
maintaining high petroleum product prices averaging 2.2 times world prices.
Since total expenditure and net lending also exceeded the financial program
targets in 1990, the fiscal deficit, on a comuitment basis and excluding
grants, reached 4.5 percent of GDP, compared with a program target of 2.6
percent.   Thus,  Senegal is still highly dependent on direct budgetary
assistance from abroad to cover current expenses, including the servicing of
foreign debt and the repayment of arrears. This situation complicates the
management of the Government's financial operations, increases its
vulnerability vis-a-vis external developments, and has led to recurring
rcoblems in the country's servicing of its debt, which reached US$4.1
billion, or about 90 percent of GDP In 1989.
5.        Real GDP in fact declined in 1989 by 0.5 percent, due primarily to
a drop in agricultural production caused by an uneven distribution of
rainfall; it grew 3.6 percent in 1990 and is expected to grow by only 1.3
percent in 1991. The important shortfall of fiscal revenues during 1989 and
1990 has added much strain to an already tight budgetary situation. Spending
for materials and maintenance has been lowered while wage expenditures
continued to rise.
B. Development Prosaects
6.        In the medium-term, even assuming reasonably favorable developments
in climate and terms-of-trade, the Senegal economy can be expected to grow
only marginally faster than the population.  The physical constraints to
development are not amenable to change in a medium-term perspective: Improved
soil and water resources management can affect agricultural production only
gradually; mineral and fish resources are currently exploited at near-optimum
rates; and, in spite of a recently articulated population policy, the
demographic pressure on resources in both urban and rural areas will
continue.
7.        Economic projections of the most likely development scenario-
involving normal weather, more efficient investment and faster-than-usual
growth of non-traditional exports as a result of policy reforms under
implementation, and further debt relief--show modest GDP growth of about 3.81
p.a. in the  1990s.   If, contrary to the assumptions underlying these
projections, the implementation of the reform agenda slows down or stagnates
and if, as a consequence, external financing from donors were to drop below
their current levels, GDP growth would be no higher than about 2.32 p.s.
(Implying falliol income per capita) even with favorable rainfall and
commodity prices.
8.        In the longer term, Senegal's development potential will depend on
four factorst (a) an improved climate for international trade and continuing
prosperity in OECD countries; (b) a much improved domestic business
environment conducive to private investment, including foreign investment;
(c) a productive, skilled labor force; and (d) more rapid depreciation of the



-3-
real effective exchang rate. If these conditions can be met, Senegal could
take advantag, of its location and climate to develop exports of light
manufactures and service industry for the region.
C. Government's Medium-Term Proarem
9.        Government elaborated its medium-term objectives in its (fifth)
Policy Framework Paper for the FY91-93 period, during which it Intends to
provide a more' faverable and balanced macroeconomic environment to sustain
economic growth. This will be achieved through controlling growth in public
spendingt, limiting inflationary pressures and removing structural bottlenecks
to economic growth and to increased private sector activity. In line with
this objective, the Government intends to: (a) achieve a turnaround in the
budget position (from a deficit to a surplus), so as to gradually reduce the
need for external budgetary assistanceo (b) strengthen further public
iavestment programming with an emphasis on efficiency and the directly
productive sectors; (c) enhance Industrial development through appropriate
incentive measures, including reductions in production costs; (d) promoto and
diversify agricultural production; (e) accelerate the reform of the public
enterprise sector through rehabilitation, privatization, and liquidation; (f)
implement the reform program of the banking sector; (g) implement policy
reforms and major infrastructure rehabilitation measures In the transport
sector; and (h) laimch sector adjustment operations in the human resources
and agriculture sectors.  These planned measures are expected to have a
gradual impact on economic performance over the medium term.
X1. MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL ADJUSTM$NT PROGRAMS
10.       Senegal's medium- and long-term (1985-92) adjustment program has
been supported by two IDA policy-based lending operations (SAL II and
SAL III) with participation of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa
and Swiss grants under this facility, and by financing from France, the
United States, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, and the African Development
Bank. The adjustment program in Senegal is also being assisted by a three-
year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility of the IMF. After SALs II and
III, Senegal's economy has been substantially liberalized, with free movement
of goods within the country largely unencumbered by price controls, and
imports unhindered by quantitative restrictions.   The private sector now
plays a more important role, especially in trade and the procossing of
agricultural products. Progress has been made in fiscal and debt management.
Investment programming has been strengthened considerably and the system of
economic planning is being reformed. A population policy was adopted and an
action programme is being implemented. In contrast, progress was less than
anticipated in three other principal areas. Whilst most planned financial
sector actions were implemented, the dimension of the banking system crisis
was underestimated by both the Bank and the Government.   Labor hiring
practices were reformed though Government was unable to pass legislation that
would have increased lebor market flexibility in a meaningful way.  The
public enterprise sector continued to be a major financial burden on the
economy despite the implementation of a program of reforms. In particular,
though progress was made in identifying public enterprises for privatization,



-4-
it Is only recently that the program of public enterprise privatization began
to have some response. As a result, Senegal's Oconomy is now more open and
xposed to competition from abroad, but significant constraints remain to be
addressed for a supply side response to be forthcoming. A major reason for
the lagging investment and supply responsoe i the persistence, despite the
measures taken under SALs II and III, of certain rigidities In the economy,
nd In particular the weigh. of public consumption (the high wage bill of the
civil service and the deficits of the public enterprises),  the over-
regulation of the labor market, the crisis In the banking sector and the lack
of competitiveness of Sonegal's economy in terms of the relative prices of
tradeable and non-tradeable goods.
11.       In spite of the many achievements, the adjustment process is, thus,
far from complete and a number of severe financial and economic constraints
have yet to be effectively tackled. The supply response from the private
sector, especially in terms of new industrial investment and exports, has
been weak because of high production costs, labor market rigidities, and
deficiencies in the regulatory environment. Much deeper reforms are still
needed to address these problems and to provide the correct incentives to
private sector development. These reforms should contribute to further real
exchange rate depreciition, which is needed to render Senegalese enterprises
more competitive in international markets, where many of Senegal's
competitors have been undergoing external adjustments. Furthermore, serious
weaknesses persist in the management of public resources, especially the
allocation between wage and non-wage expenditures and the financial
performance of the parapublic sector. Unless these weaknesses are remedied,
tho probability of reaching the goals of eliminating the budget deficit and
restoring public savings is not very high. It should be politically feasible
to adopt the necessary reforms, though on the basis of past experience In
Senegal, particular care has to be taken to line up support against
opposition from powerful vested interested groups (such as civil servants and
labor unions) and to avoid overestimating the Government's capacity to
implement reforms and underestimating the time needed to prepare and
implement the necessary actions.
12.       In order to do this, the ongoing SAL IV focusses on relatively
fewer areas than previous SALs and supports a limited number of critical
macro-level actions, while a number of complementary SECALs and hybrid
operations tackle issues at the sectoral level, mobilizing both the sectoral
ministries and other cofinanciers in support of needed reforms.   The
transport sector, along with those of agriculture, banking, and human
resources, is among the most Important sectors where major reforms in support
of macro-economic objectives are being pursued through sectoral adjustment
operations. Major improvements are being sought in transport sector planning,
operations, and management. The transport of Senegal's agricultural products
from farm gate to markets, and the movement of its mining and industrial
products (such as phosphates, phosphoric acid, and fertilizers) to the port
for export are critically dependent on the efficiency of the sector and its
services. The cost of transport is a key factor in the marketability of
these commodities, particularly their competitiveness in the export market.
Although entry to the road transport industry--which handles over 90 percent



of passenger ad freight traffic (excluding phosphbtes)--ls completely
liboralized, and although competition works despite Indicative official
tariffs, the cost of transport is high, reflecting both the very high levols
of taxation on equipment and fuel, and the lncreasingly damaging impact of
infrastructure deterioration.   The TSAIP has been designed to hblt the
decline in the transport sector's performance, counter the effects of
remalnlng lnefficeLncies In the port and railway companies, and reverse the
trend of lncreasing costs due to deteriorating infrastructure which, if
unattended, would deter economlc activity especially in the Dakar area, and
seriously Impede transit trade to Mali.
13.       Under the stimulus of the SALs and the rolling three-year public
investment programs (PTIPs), the Governvant has developed two transport
sector objectives in its dialogue with the Associations (a) Lmproved
oyerational officiency of the transport system; and (b) lower overall
tr6nsport costs. The Government has also developod a strategy to attain
these objectives through reforms in three principal and interdependent policy
areas:  (i) investment planning and strategy; (li) improved institutional
framework of trasport parastatals; and (iii) measures to improve financial
viability and operstlonal efficiency, mainly through staff and tariff
adjustments.   The following section provides an overview of the policy
measures and lastitutional reforms which would be supported by the proposed
credlt.
1II. MAIN ISSUES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
AND STRATEGY FOR ADDRESSING THEM
A. Backsround
14.       The policy dialogue in the context of the recently completed Fifth
Hlghway (Cr. 1448-SE) and Thlrd Railway (LN. 1518-SE) Projects and of the
ongoing Third Dakar Port (Cr. 1459-SE) Project has served to sensitize the
Government to the more serious deficiencies ln the Transport Sector, which
ares persistent lack of funding for maintenance; poor investment planning;
expensive implementation methods; and inefficient Institutional performance.
In addition, the role of the private sector, potentially more efficient, has
remained embryonic and restricted ln practice to road transport. Transport
coordination has been virtually absent, as resource allocation was based on
narrow subsectoral plans and priorities and not on overall demand-driven
criteria.   The dialogue, pursued with Government since a policy review
meeting with the Bank in late 1986, has resulted in agreement on the need for
reforms in three main areass (a) improved lnvestment planning in the sector
with a target of at least 80 percent of sector expenditures earmarked for
infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, and a major emphasis, through
1994, on repairing the dilapidated highway network; (b) increased
mobilization of resources from the sector through Improved efficiency, cost
control and revised tariff policies in the railways and ports subsectors; and
(c) strengthened sector management through a series of lnstltutional reforms,
including revising the legal status and increasing the autonomy of the port,
railway, and civil aviation parastatals.



-6-
15.       Since reforms In these areas had been attempted under earlier
projects with disappointing results, considerable emphasis during project
preparation was put on significant un-front action on a number of the agreed
policy changes.   First, detailed action plans have been established for
trasslating agreed policy changes for the road, railways, port, and aviation
subsectors into reality.  A number of Important reform measures have already
been introduced to comply with conditions of appraisal of the proposed TSAIP,
and the hybrid format chosen for the project will allow continued monitoring,
and recognition of the Implementation of critical policy measures during
project lmplementation--particularly those that concern the policy agend"s of
the Ministries of Plan and Finance rather than those of the technical
ministry and agencies directly concerned by the project--through tranche
release conditions under the adjustment component. Reform measures already
implemented are detailed in Annex 1I and includes (a) sector wides agreement
on a 12 percent rate of return criterion for all investments over
US$1 million in tue sector; (b) for the road subsector: Government's formal
engagement - included in its 1989 Letter of Transport Policy - to devote 80
percent of all subsector expenditures to rehabilitation and maintenance (as
opposed to the construction of new roads), and to increase budgetary
allocations for maintenance (Road Fund) from CFA 2 billion to CFA 6.5 billion
p.a. This will be required for the execution of an agreed emergency salvage
program for some 900 km of the paveA road network, and periodic and routine
maintenance actions on the rest of the defined priority network. Governmnt
further agreed to the continued freeze in hiring of force account
construction personnel whose number will decline by two thirds over the
project period through natural attrition, and to an increase in road works
carried out by private contractors from 35 percent to 75 percent of all road
works--including routine maintenance--over the period of project executiong
(c) for the railway subsector: transformation of the ORigie' into a *Societi
Nationale" with increased management autonomy (Nov. 1989); introduction of a
unified personnel statute to end long-festering conflicts due to differing
compensation and promotion criteria applied to staff under the two existing
statutes of the "Regie"; agreement on a five-year financial plan with
monitorable operational and financial targets, detailed in a Contract Plan
and designed to reduce Government operating subsidies to the railways
substantially and to eliminate them entirely by the end of the project
period; (d) for the port subsector: transformation of the port from an
'Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial' (EPIC) into a
'Socite Nationale" with increased management autonomy (July 1987); and
implementation of an agreed technical, operational and financial plan aimed
at improving port efficiency, financial performance, and pricing and quality
of service to shippers; and (e) for the civil aviation subsectors agreement
to establish financial and operational plans for both AIR SENEGAL and ASECNA-
Senegal under the proposed project.
16.       Implementation of the reform measures agreed to will result in
sharply increased budgetary needs during the project period, and the hybrid
credit was chosen, because: (a) the prospect of quick disbursement
facilitated agreement on some of the upfront actions described above and,
through tranching, will focus attention on monitorable future actions; (b) it
significantly strengthens Government's ability to implement productivity



- 7 -
enhancing reforms, including increased expenditures for road maintenance, in
an environment of great fiscal constraint; while at the same time (c)
avoiding the drawback of direct IDA contributions to routine road maintenance
budgets as under previous Highway Projects which, although designed to be
lncremental, de facto simply substituted f&r Government's own budgetary
allocations, thus perpetuating persistent underfunding of maintenance and
premature degradation of an expanding road network.   The policy reforms
facilitated by the adjustment component will, in combination with carefully
evaluated essential rehabilitation investments, maintenance actions, and
institutional capacity building supported by the investment element of the
project, durably improve transport efficiency, which is a key factor in the
process of increasing market responsiveness in the economy and reducing costs
of production for agriculture and industry.   The policy changes and
institutional improvements to be supported under the proposed project are
summarized in Annexes Ila and IIb and presented in more detail below.
B. Investment PlanninR and Strateav
17.       The well-developed, but under-maintained road network, and the
accumulation of arrears by the railways, are both indicativo of past
distortions in investment strategies. Up to the early eighties, trassport
traditionally received up to 19 percent of the total investment budget and
most of the resources were allocated to new construction. During the 1981-85
period, when structural adjustments were being Introduced at the
mecroeconomic level, the share of transport dropped to about 13 percent of
investments. But these were still directed largely to new construction, and
despite substantial contributions by IDA to maintenance (especially in the
road subsector) the overall condition of Senegal's aging transport
infrastructure deteriorated severely. In an effort to stem this accelerating
trend, studies to evaluate the essential maintenance needs of the sector were
carried out. They showed that to cover the most urgent rehabilitation needs,
allocations to transport in the 1990-92 Three-Year Plan would have to rise
again to about 20 percent of the national investment budget.
18.       The increase in the overall percentage allocation to transport is
principally justified by the urgent need to step up periodic highway
maintenance in order to stem the rapidly accelerating deterioration of 30
percent of the paved network. As noted above (para 12), Government, in a
major change from earlier practice, has agreed that at least 80 percent of
road expenditures would be for rehabilitation and maintenanco, that no new
projects would be Included in the PTIP unless they yield an ERR of 12 percent
or more, and that all projects would be ranked for financing and
implementation strictly according to economic priorities.
19.       In the railway subsector, a major misinveotment on high-cost
renewal of the international railway line to Mali has been averted by
limiting the scope of works to rehabilitation and intensive maintenance, thus
reducing initially planned investments of US$86 million to about US$50
million. Even this reduced investment was accepted by IDA only after two
studies established a satisfactory long-term role for the line and an
adequate techno-economic justification.



- 8 -
20.       In the port subsector, the only proposed investment la for
improving road access connecting the urban network to the new Container
Terminal financed under the ongoing Third Dakar Port Project, while the main
emphasis will be on periodic maintenance of the aging utility systems (water,
electricity) serving port needs. In the civil aviation subsector, long
overdue rehabilitation of the runways of the Cap Skirring and Ziguinchor
airfields, and renewal of navigational aids indispensable for safe operation
of the Dakar airport and several regional airfields are the only Investments
foreseen under the project.
21.       The recent PTIP reviews have highlighted some Issues and weaknesses
In the sectoral investment planning process itself. While the current program
rightly focuses on high priority maintenance in all the subsectors and public
investment planning in the transport sector is less overprogrammed than it
used to be five years ago: (a) the planning process requires structurally
sounder subsectoral plans, more rigorous economic justification, and a better
integration into a coordinated transport sector strategy; and (b) manpower
development and training need to be strengthened in almost all subsectors.
These issues require continued corrective action and monitoring linked to
tranching through the proposed credit and future lending to the sector. A
-sse in point is urban transport in the Dakar rep1on, which is not included
in the proposed project, having been traditionally assisted via bilateral
arrangements, especially with France.  SOTRAC, the joint venturo Dskar urban
transport company owned 60 percent by Government and 40 percent by RVI
(Renault) has recently acquired 120 new buses (25 percent of its floet)
despite  consistently deficitary operational  results.    The next major
investment proposed in the urban transport subsector concerns tho Train de
Banlieue, a suburban rail service in the Dakar area, expected to replace bus
service on loss-making suburban routes of SOTRAC.   While IDA,  after
examination of the feasibility studies, has concluded that the project may be
economically viable, It is judged prudent to introduce the proposed full-
service system in two or three stages, phased In response to proven customer
demand for increased service frequency. Agreement on these phasing. will be
sought in the context of an overall Urban Transport Master Plan for which
financing Is being sought.
C. The Institutional Framework
Roads
22.       The  Government  has  traditionally  relied  upon  force-account
Implementation of road maintenance, which was slow and often inefficient. In
accordance with its policy to divest itself progressively from the execution
of works or provision of services, the Administration has agreed to grant to
Senegal's developing private construction industry a more signiflcant role in
periodic and routine road maintenance works by increasing its share from some
35 percent under the Fifth Highway Project to 75 percent of the annual works
budget over the next four years. The Public Works departments will retain
only a small routine maintenance capability, and will concentrate mainly on
their role of planning, programing, contracting, and supervising works.
This will result In a significant reduction of personnel which wI I I be



- 9 -
largely acheved through normal attrition.   It will also Improve the
timeliness and efficiency of works execution. The use of consultants for
design and supervision will act as a stimulus to the development of the local
consulting industry. However, a problem which the contracting industry Is
likely to face will be payment delays by the Administration for works
executed.   Government's disbursement practices are so cumbersome that
contractors' bills have in the past often been paid up to twelve months late.
Unlike large contractors, the small- and medium-scale firms who are oxpected
to be interested in the routine maintenance works are unable to function
under such conditions. The Government is convinced of the need to reduce
these delays, if the privatization of road maintenance Is to succeed; and it
is now committed to ensure payment of contractors' and suppliers' bills
within no more than three months. Compliance with this payment delay will be
a condition of tranche release for the adjustment portion of the proposed
credit. Successful transfer of maintenance works execution to contraetors
also needs to be supported with appropriate training programs, and the Public
Works Training Center (CPTP) should be able to accept both administration
personnel and that of small- and medium-size contractors for training. This
now role will have to be reflected in its statutes, and adoption of statutes
CPTP satisfactory to the Association will be a condition of disbursement for
the road gomponent.
RailwYas
23.       In the early 1980s, the railway subsector was plagued by shrinklng
traffic, falling revenues, rising costs, poor cost recovery, low labor
productivlty, and overall managerial failure. The future of RCFS was in
doubt. Studies carried out during preparation of the project established
that the RCFS could have a definite role to play, but only if operational
efficiency were Improved. This iole covers the haulage of international
transit traffic to Mali, both frelght and passengers, and the national
phosphate traffic. At the time, lt appeared that national freight traffic
(other than phosphate) and national passenger traffic (especlally on the low-
density line of Tivavouane-St. Louis) were deficltary.   Siace then, the
railway has taken stringent measures to cut costs by reduclng staff, reduclng
the number of intermediate stations, etc. As a result, recently concluded
trials have shown that national freight and passenger services will be able
to cover avoidable costs as long as no new investments are made and services
are operated at current levels.   Accordlngly, agreement has been reached
wlth the Government that no expansion of these servlces will be undertaken
unless trials demonstrate the fessibility of recovering thelr avoidable
costs.
24.       The efflciency of the railway and lts competltlveness with road
transpart had been serlously eroded through lack of management autonomy,
partlcularly ln tariff setting and personnel administration. As a result of
the ongoing dialogue with the Assoclation, both in the context of the SAL and
the proposed TSAIP, Government has converted RCFS lito a Soclet'e Nationale
with much increased managerial autonomy. Based on the results of studies
carried out during project preparation, a matrix of verifiable operational
and financial targets to be achieved annually has been drawn up. Further, as



- 10 -
suggested by the diagnostic studies, the two existing personnel statutes
which, although conflicting, had been maintained through union pressure, are
to be changed to a unified personnel statute for the Sociite Nationale. The
entire framework of reform actions is reflected in the statutes of the new
wSocitt Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Senegal (SNCS)' and will be
Implemented and monitored through the Contract Plan. The final outcome oi
these far-reaching institutional reforms will be to eliminate operational
subsidies during the project period (see par"s 28 ff). Detailed financial
projections have shown that the railway's working ratio, currently at 0.75,
could be Improved to 0.70 or less during the FY91-95 period.
25.       Important institutional concerns will need to be addressed in the
articulation of the proposed suburban passenger rail service with both the
railway company and the urban bus company. While involvement of SNCS in the
service is desirable to facilitate operational coordination of suburban and
nationallinternational traffic, the institutional arrangements need to ensure
that this involvement will not jeopardize SNCS financial and operational
rehabilitation plans.  Concomitant, suburban rail and urban bus services
(both of SOTRAC and the 'Cars Rapidesl, small private sector bus operators
providing about a third of urban transport) need to be integrated in ways
that improve service and maintain reasonable competition. Aareement will be
reached with IDA on any arranRements for an urban transport authority that
Government may wish to establish.
Ports and Shipping
26.       In the recent past, institutional weaknesses of the Autonomous Port
of Dakar (PAD) have been the subject of intensive reviews under the ongoing
Dakar Container Port Project. A large measure of the requisite reforms have
been undertaken over the past two years. In July 1987, PAD was converted
into a Societe Nationale (PAD) with substantially enhanced management
autonomy. The new management structure with a new management team are in
place. An Action Plan, established under the ongoing Dakar Container Port
Project, defines detailed measures to Improve organization and management,
and is being implemented. A five-year financial plan, detailing financial
and operating targets to be attained every year, has been drawn up (see par"s
39 ff below). These have been reflected in a Contract Plan between PAD and
Government, agreed with IDA.   In addition, certain essential follow-up
reforms have been agreed upon; these are:
(a) increasing the port capacity by clearing up the working zones of
the port throught
(i)   strict and  timely  Implementation of bond  and auction
procedures for goods in abeyance; and
(1i)  an agreed timetable for the termination of long-term storage
facilities in the port working areas for CPSP;



- 11 -
(b) setting up a Management Information System, a manpower plan, and
an Action Plan for each department of the port, the details of
which were agreed at negotiations; and
(c) facilitating transshipment, International trsasit, and door-to-door
container traffic by simplification of Customs' procedures for
these operationa, follcwing the results of a study currently being
carried out.
Measures under (c) would reinforce action pursued already under SAL IVg
compliance with Contract Plan .objectives including the implementation of
measures under (a) and (b) would be conditions of tranche release for the
adJustment component of the proposed project. In addition, as rail 4nd road
access to the port are being improved and grain handling arrangements
changed, Government will institute annual reviews of the agreements with the
Government of Mali on the Free Zone (EMASE) with the aim of providing
alternative facilities and procedures for the Mali trafflc that would improve
transport efficiency and reduce transport cost in the Dakar-Bamako corridor,
as well as enhance overall port efficiency. Undeo the investment component
of the project, a satisfactory techiAcal assistance team will be financed to
support PAD management and sustain the momentum of the reform process. The
project would also support the production of a master plan defining the
longer-term development objectives and prospects of Dakar Port.
27.       While past development plans have concentrated on Dakar port, the
traffic and revenues of the secondary ports like St. Louis, Kaolack, and
Ziguinchor are dwindling.  It is not clear whether this is the cause or the
effect of lack of attention to these ports.  The role of these ports In the
national context has to be reassessed in the light of the competitiveness of
coastal navigation with road transport. Studies will be conducted under the
proposed project to enable Govermnent to formulate a coherent strategy for
these secondary ports.
28.       National Shipping was reorganized in 1987 through the establisbment
of a joint-venture company, COSENAM, regrouping all private and public
Senegalese shipping Interests. At present, COSENAH is chartering space and
selling its traffic rights to foreign shipping lines and its financial
situation is healthy. However, Government and COSENAN are considering ways
to develop COSENAM's involvement in actual shipping operations.   Unless
pooling agreements can be secured, this Is a very risky operation given
Senegal's unbalanced trade.  In any case, chartering vesrels or space is
preferable to buying vessels in the present volatile environment of marit ime
transport. Therefore, Government and COSENAM should seek regional pooling
agreements and accumulate experience with chartering before committing
themselves to potentially hazardous investments in vessels. Any investment
In shipping would, however, be included In the PTIP for prior review with
IDA. It would be preferable for Government to ultimately divest itself of
its remaining 26 percent share In the company and have it fully privatized.



- 12 -
Civil Aviation
29.       The national carrier AIR SENEGAL/SONAT  a, after operating at a loss
fcr the first twelve years of its existence, has been able to cover operating
costs since 198314 thanks to improved management, diversification of
activities (charter, handling, etc.) and Government compensation payments of
CFA 100 million annually for public service provision to Eastern Senegal and
the Fleuve region at tariffs vwll below costs (60 percent).   A recent
critical examination of the company's route structure; traffic potential and
fleet utilisation concluded that AIR SENEGAL's current fleet is poorly suited
to serve Its present and potential traffic efficiently, and identified
several equipment replacement scenarios that could Improve service and
financial results.   The project would support a detailed study of three
proposed fleet renewal alternatives, including a five-year financial plan
reflecting realistic financing assumptions for new equipment (purchasellease
options) and acceptable arrangements concerning AIR SENEGAL's debts on the
existing fleet. It would also support establishment of a Contract Plan as a
condition of effectiveness and first tranche releases this would define
operational and financial objectives ior AIR SENEGAL's commercial as well as
public service routes, with a view to fully recover costa on the latter by
the end of 199112 as agreed under SAL IV.
30.       Management of airiorts and air navigation facilitles, entrusted to
ASECNA has deteriorated in recent years, and a consultant's report prepared
during project preparation recommended a separation of management
responsibilities  for air navigazion  (ASECNA) and commercial activities
(ground facilities, real estate, airport commercial activities, etc). The
Administration rejected the proposal to establish an independent airport
authority, preferring to restrzucture ASECNAts activity and put It on a
commercial basis. The project will support this by financin& a diagnostic
study and an operational and financial-Action Plan for putting air navigation
and airport management in Senegal on a sound financial footing. The Action
Plan is expected to address: (a) present organizational arrangemuents and
proposed improvements; (b) an examination of staffing levels, staff
qualifications, and training needs, with a view to containing and reducing
recent steep increases in salary expenditures for administrative personnel;
(c) introduction of detailed annual budgeting, including revenuelexpenditure
estimates for each center of activity, estimates of routine and periodic
maintenance needs for infrastructure and equipment, and cost of non-civil
aviation related services to be compensated; (d) a plan for recovery of
payment arrears (more then 50 percent of current annual billing) on both
aeronautical fees and airport rentals and commercial activities; and (e)
establishment of a 3-5 year rolling investment plan for renewal and
improvement of essential infrastructure and equipment.  It will also be
necessary to evaluate carefully the impact of the recently launched
restructuring of AIR AFRIQUE on both recovery of past debts (the company is
ASECNA's largest debtor) and on estimated future airport revenues following
the domanded cutbacks In service frequency of competing airlines, in line
with the 1973 Yaounde treaty arrangements.



- 13 -
D. Financial Viability and OoeratIonal Efficiency
Railways MS-CS)
(a)  Recent Financial Performance and Current Financial Position
31.       As noted earlier (para 24), the main objective of the proposed
project is to make the railway financially self-sufficient s@ that operating
subsidies are completely phased out, and the railway is able to meet its
renewal requirements through adequate provision for depreciation.   The
conversion of RCFS into a Sociote Nationale with a new financal structure
and personnel statute, and their implementation through a performance
contract should set the pace for Institutional recovery. RCFS financial
management into the early 1980s had been characterised by unsatisfactory
accounting practices and clouded by improprieties. Annual accounts were
prepared poorly and with several years' delay. Only after a severe shake-up
of accounting personnel and implementation of annual external audits starting
In 1985 have accounts been produced on time.   Earlier qualifications
concerning Iwportant items have been gradually clarified. By conclusion of
the audit of the FY88 financial statements, most of an important remaining
difference of CPAF 1.7 billion in balances shown respectively by Tressury and
RCFS should be narrowed down to CFAF 336 million based on RCPS evidence, and
a clear and unqualified opening balance of SNCS as of January 1990, Including
a detailed evaluation of fixed asets, is expected to be available by June
1991.
32.       RCFS balance sheets for FY86-1Y89 are shown in Anne" III. In FY88,
not fixed assets amounted to CFAF 47.2 billion, with CFAF 9.3 billion of
works in progress. Equity and long-term foreign debt are CPAF 19 billion and
CIA? 20 billion, respectively. The most salient feature is expected negative
working capital of CFAF 8.2 billion for FY89. SNCS is mostly in arrears to
Government for servicing of foreign and local loans. Substantial mounts are
also owed to suppliers, due In part to past inefficiencies in financial
management that are being improved. Accounts receivable have been increaslng
and will need attention (see para 33 below).
33.       Sine SNCS cannot pay off these arrears  Immediately, given its
estimated earnings capacity, a financial restructuring glan is being put into
place to give the newly established Socioto Nationale a sound finaneial
start. This plan will take effect in FY91 and foresees the following: (a)
the excess of short-term liabilities over short-term assets of
CIAF 8.7 billion in FY90 would be eliminated over four years as follows: (i)
CFAF 6O billion of ex-RCFS debt to Government will be converted into equity.
This awount corresponds to the sum of Government's contribution of 602 to
track rehabilitation works (CFAF 2.0 billion); debt to the national
retirement fund linked to excess staffing Imposed on RCFS by Government
(CIA? 735 million); doubtful Government claims for foreign debt servicing
(CFAF 0.9 billion); and CFAF 2.4 billion of other debt that SNCS Is unable to
reimburse; (Ui) the remaining short-tezm debt of CFAF 2.7 billion would be
repaid over three years, interest freel and (b) in addition, Government will
assume potential litigation damages (rolated to past claims by personnel



e 14 -
resulting out of conflicting personnel statutes) In the samount of
CPA? 1.676 billion iaa=aum--with no ditrect Impact on SVCS liquidity. These
restrueturing arrangements were reflected in the Contract Plan between
Government and SNCS, signature of which was a condition of effectiveness as.
first tranche roleaset compliance therewith will be monitored as conditions
of second and third-tranche releases.
(b) Tariffs
34.       The  ex-RCPS  did  not  have  the  autonomy  to  set  tariffs  at
remunerative rates and tariffs on national passenger traffic, as well as
international passenger and freight traffic had not changed since 1982.
Consultants' reports showed that for the new SNCS to be financially viable,
revenue needed to increase by 102 overall over 1987 levels, and reconmended
that tariff increases for different services be modulated in term. of the
railway's comparative advantaRe for each.   Increases of tariffs on the
international traffic and of freight rates on phosphate traffic have been
introduced in 1988/89; national passenger traffic fares were increased by 52
as of February 1, 1990, and by another 5 as of September 1, 1990.
Implementation of these increase3 was a condition of effectiveness and first
tranche release on the adjustment component. SVCS pricing policy as defined
in the Contract Plan/Cahier des Charges is for core activities (international
psssenger and freight traffic, phosphate traffic and national passenger
traffic) to bear fully allocated costs, and for other activities to at least
cover avoidable costs.  This  Implies periodic tariff adjustments in real
terms in the light of changing cost data for the different SNCS services.
(c) Financial Obiectives
35.       SNCS objective is to be a fully autonomous, commercially-oriented
public enterprise, the operation of which will not require any subsidies from
Government.  Its statutes specify that operating revenues should cover all
operating expenses, including adequate maintersace, provision for losses and
renewals, and interest charges on debts. To do so, SNCS has tariff-setting
autonomy, and Government control of operational expenditures and bank
accounts will be on a posteriori basis.
36.       SNCS will need to reinforce accounting and financial mnagement
through technical assistance and training, as well as through introduction of
computerized billing and accounting procedures on a service-by-service basis.
A major objective is to Improve collection of receivables, the levels of
which should decrease from 75 days of operating revenues in FY89 to 40 days
in FY93, and institute corresponding timely payment procedures for suppliers,
so that the ratio of payables to working expenses (excluding salaries) would
decline from 30% to 202 over the project period. In addition to the working
ratio covenant already Included in the Contract Plan, asgreement was reached
at neLotiatiOns that the current ratio will be maintained above 0.7 in FY91,
0.8 in PY92 and 1 thereafter. The 1990-94 Investment program h& u been agreed
with IDA; it foresees expenditures of close to CIAF 25 billion, two thirds of
which for track rehabilitation and maintenance. Any additional investment



- 15 -
exceeding CPAF 300 million will be subject to Association approval through
the anual investment review process under SAL IV.
td) Forecast Financial Performance
37.       The forecast statement of sources and application of funds and the
forecast balance sheet are also shown in Annex II.  During the 1990-94
period, two major lmbalances need to be correcteds (a) negative working
capital; and (b) negative contribution by some services to net oporating
revenue  The former will be addressed through partial rescheduling of loans
and conversion of others to equity (para 33 above).  The latter will be
solved through a combination of tariff increases and cost reduotions.
38.       Based on modest average traffic growth assumptions of 31 and 2.5S
p. a. for freight and passenger traffic, respectively, operating revenues will
not grow from CFAF 9.4 billlon In FY89 to CFAF 12.7 billion in FY94 necessary
to maintain a working ratio of 0.70, unless the overall up-front 101 increase
in revenues mentioned  oarlier  (pars 34)  is  Implemented,  followed by
additional tariff licreases in subsequent years one point below the yearly
inflation rate. To maintain consistency with financial objectLves throughout
project execution, agreement was reached at negotiations thats (a) the
debtlequity ratio will be no higher than 451551 and (b) gross cash-flow will
be no less than 1.4 times the debt servLeinog requirement.
Ports (PAD)
(a) Recent Financial Performance and Current FinancLal PositLon
39.       PAD was establishad in July 1987 as a Soclete Nationale, i.e., a
fully  autonomous,   commercLally-orLented  public  enterprise.         This
transformation was part of the operational and financial Action Plan
supported under the Third Dakar Port Project, designed to Lsprove port
management, introduce satisfactory management and control systems and
increase financLal autonomy. Overall, revenue and cash-flow objectlves set
for the FY86-88 period (the last period for whlch audLted accounts are
available) were exceeded, with PAD net income after taxes averaging
CFAF 1.4 billion, on annual revenues averagLng CFAF 8.3 billion.
40.       PAD balance sheets for FY86-88 are shown in Annex IV. In FY88, net
fixed assets amounted to CFAF 19.7 billion, with only CFAF 215 millLon of
works in progress.   Equity and long-term debt are CFAF 19.0 billion and
CFAF 8.6 billion, respectively.
41.       Accounts receivable as of June 30, 1987 stood at CFAF 5.5 billLon,
of which CFAF 1.4 billlon were provlsioned, representing more than 9 months
of operating revenue and dlstributed 8721132 between private and public
sector customers. PAD new management reorganized cash collection procedures
ln November i987, aIming to reduce accounts receivable to 252 of port
turnover within 2 years.   Collection staff were asslgned to partlcular
categories of customers; follow-up routines and prompt analysis of customer
ciaims were introduced.   Outstandlng lnvoLees in dispute declined from



- 16 -
CPA? 513 mllion on June 30, 1987, to CFAF 117 million in April 1989.
Progress has been most difficult with public sector debtors, and PAD acceptod
to roschedule short-term debt of some CPAF 600 million, mostly owed by local
cargo handling compan_es and forwarders  severely affectod by the impact of
Senegal's adverse economic conditions on port-related activities. Aereo _nt
Was rgached at neot_at Ions on finaucial performance Indicators to better
rolate payments received to corresponding bills, and to stablish unambiguous
ceilings on debt roscheduling; these indicators are part of tho Contract Plan
concluded between PAD and Government.
42.       PAD current assets Include substantial cash deposits accumulated
due to the deferral of periodic maintenance for several years, and to riing
revenues with rising traffic. As of June 30, 1987, cash In bank and In hand
stood at CFAP 6.87 billion; however, part of this excoss liquidity resulted
from non-payment of Government bills, especially foreign debt servicing. An
imuediate step to bring surplus cash to more normal level Is settlement of
cross-debts with Government. Most of these date back to the period before
December 1986, and uncontested amounts eoncerning this period should be
settled under SAL IV conditionalities by all public enterprises no later than
March 31, 1990. It was estimated that PAD owed about CFAF 5.5 billion to
Government, which In turn owes PAD some CFAF 3 billion.   Agreement was
reached at neaotiations that all cross-debts would be settled no later than
December 31, 1990; this has been complied with. The compensation plan would
Include non-port services provided to Government and the City of Dakar, as
well as proceeds from divestiture of PAD participation In SODHEME and
COSENAM, the ship-maintenance and shipping companies (para 44 below). In
addition, the scope for lowering rates to shippers will be examined (pare 43
below).
(b) Tariffs
43.       Under earlier IDA port-projects, tariffs have been increased
regularly (by about 102 p.a. on average) to comply with financial ratio
agreements and to generate the revenue required for meeting additional
obligations. Although some revisions of the tariff structure were introduced
under the Second and Third Port projects, the overall structure of charges
has remained unchanged, reflecting a long outdated technology when ships
spent days at berth, and capacity availability did not require the port to
use tariffs for promoting more optimal utilization of Its quay and storage
facilities. Moreover, given the fact that PAD charges represent only one
third of the combined ClAP 22 billion paid by port users in FY88, it is
important for PAD to monitor rate setting by private operators of stevedoring
and other port related services, to ensure that service rendered is
consistent with rates charged, and that Dakar's rates remain competitive with
those of other regional ports such as Abidjan, who are also trying hard to
attract international trans-shipment business.
44.       Of PAD overall operating revenues of CPAF 7.7 billion in FY88, only
13Z originated from services to ships, while 371 were charged for services to
goods, 282 for storage and rentals, 151 for fishing port operations, and the
remaining 7% for miscellaneous services. It is evident that faster servicing



- 17 -
of fever ships in a modernised fleet has lowered ship-bosed revenues to an
unreasonably small share of total revenues, which would more normally be
expected to be distributed 30/70 between ship-based and goods-based revenues.
A consultant's study of alternative tariff structures and levels
corresponding more closely to observed costs of different services was
launched and recommendations were received in April 1991. Implementation of
the tariff adjustments recommended by the study and agreed by IDA would be a
condition of second tranche release of the adjustment component. The project
will ensure continued monitoring of PAD tariff levels, as well as those of
other port operators, so as to contribute to an improved supply response of
Senegal's economy due to lower prices of foreign inputs, as well as of
exports.
(c)  Financial ObAectives
45.       PAD's objective is to be a fully autonomous, commercially-oriented
and profitable public enterprise.   According to its statutes, operating
revenues should cover all operating expenses including adequate maintenance,
provision for losses and renewals, interest charges on debt, and a minimum
return on revaluated net fixed assets. The authorities have consistently
accepted tariff increases requested by PAD to attain these objectives.
Financial management has been improved with the establishment of the new
Societe Nationale, but needs to continue and intensify its efforts on
reduction of receivables and payment of suppliers (para 41 above).
46.       A worrisome development has been the steep increase of labor costs
following establishment of the Societe Nationale (+ 261 in FY88), which
represent 47X of working expenses net of taxes in FY88 and are expected to
exceed 50% in FY90 (see Annex IV). While competitive salary levels were, and
are, an important feature of the new Societe Nationale, so were reductions in
non-productive labor to be identified through a manpower development plan.
So far, permanent staff remains at earlier levels of about 730, but the
number of fixed-term contracts doubled to 120, for total PAD employment of
850.  Overstaffing is most evident at lower skill levels, and port force
account labor for construction and maintenance is large (165) and not very
productive. An ongoing study is examining the potential for contracting out
services and reducing permanent staffing levels. Aareement was reached at
neaotiations to maintain the labor cost/vorking expenses ratio at no more
than 0.5 and the working ratio at no more than 0.65; reduction of permanent
staff by an agreed number following conclusion of the study, together with
the effective termination of all short-term contracts signed in early 1989
and not justified in the manpower plan. This was reflected In the Contract
Plan and all short-term contracts were in fact terminated by early 1991.
Compliance with agreed ratios will be a condition of second and third tranche
releases for the adjustment component of the Credit.
47.       Port users are currently being charged for several services that
PAD has been providing without full remuneration at the Administration's
request. These include operation and maintenance of lighthouses, buoys and
beacons, and operation of the Dakar-Goree ferry-shuttle which generates
monthly losses of CFAF 20 million on average. Past debt on these services



- 18 -
should be part of the compensation of cross-debts between Government and PAD#
agreement was reached at neaotiations that the Contract Plan specify that PAD
will be compensated for future services rendered no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. PAD's present 702 financial participation
in SODHEME, a profitable company operating shiplifting facilitie" that has
served mainly to shore up the near bankrupt dry-dock company DAKAR MARINE
(which owes PAD some CFAF 400 million), should be reduced through the
privatization of both these companies (being pursued under SAL IV).  In
addition, possible divestiture of PAD interest in COSENAM, the joint-venture
Senegalese shipping company, was discussed at negotiations.
48.       The PAD capital expenditure program for the 1991-94 period has been
agreed with IDA; it represents some CPAF 13.5 billion, mainly for periodic
maintenance. Any additional investments proposed for inclusion in later year
programs (grain handling terminal, petroleum jetty rehabilitation) will be
subject to IDA approval through the annual investment review process under
SAL IV.   To ensure sufficient gross cash-flow to cover debt servico
requirements, aareement was reached at nexotiations that provision shall be
made in the Contract Plan for the debt service ratio to be maintained at no
less than 1.5.
(d) Forecast Financial Performance
49.       The five-year forecast statement of sources and applications of
funds and the forecast balance sheets are also in Annex IV. During the 1991-
94 period, PAD would cover with its initial cash surplus and cash-flow the
local cost portion of the proposed capital expenditure program as well as
interest payments and debt service on earlier projects. The healthy cash
position estimated for FY94 and FY95 shows that investments in grain terminal
facilities and petroleum jetty rehabilitation, although not included in the
projection, would be affordable.   Cross-debts between PAD and Government
would be compensated, and excess PAD debt of CFAF 2.5 billion would be repaid
over three years. The projection assumes that Government will not dismiss
legitimate claims by PAD that reduce short-term debt repayments by some
CFAF 3.0 billion.   If PAD had to increase its cash outflows for debt
repayment by such amounts, its ability to finance the agreed program would be
impaired.  Alternative solutions would have to be worked out within the
framework of the Contract-Plan, based on clarification of the issue which
Government is coumitted to provide to IDA not later than June 30, 1991. On
present assumptions, the debt service ratio would be above 1.5 throughout the
projection period.   These satisfactory results are obtained using very
conservative assumptions on traffic growth, and foreseeing only one
additional tariff increase of half the average inflation rate for the FY91-
FY95 period.  This presumes, however, that the cost containment measures
envisaged  under  the  project  are  fully  realized.    Overall,  forecast
performance should significantly improve Dakar's competitive position among
West African ports.



_ 19 -
Civil Aviation
50.       The studies and action plans to be prepared under the project are
designed to reinforce ongoing actions for establishing full finncnial
viability of AIR SENEGAL witb the aim of eliminating the need for
compensation payments on the public service lines by the end of 1991.
Historic data on AIR SENEGAL financial performance showing steady improvement
over recent years are in Annex V. Signature of a Contract Plan between
Government and AIR SENEGAL, a condition of effectiveness and first trenche
release, has been complied with. In navigational and airport management, the
project will support establishment of sound financial management practices by
ASECNA-Senegal, examine the adequacy of user charges at Dakar-Yoff and other
national airfields, and support tariff adjustments where indicated by the
results of the studies. Available financial data on ASECNA operations in
Senegal are in Annex VI. Adoption of agreed financial and operational plans
for ASECNA-Senegal, based on the results of the study financed under the
project, will be a condition of third tranche release.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiram Objectives and Key Actions
51.       The measures described above and summarized in Annex II constitute
a comprehensive package of policy reforms and adjustments pursued under the
project, and of actions already, or programmed to be, taken by Government and
the major transport parastatals.   They have been discussed with the
Administration during project preparation and are reflected in Government's
Declaration of Transport Policy of May 1989, also in Annex II. TSAIP is an
integrated, mutually supportive package of major policy reforms and physical
investments.   It is aimed at attaining the objectives of the country's
ongoing macroeconomic adjustment program in the transport sector byt (a)
reducing the cost of transport in Senegal; (b) strengthening sector
management including investment and maintenance programming capacity; (c)
privatizing the execution of works or provision of services in the sector to
the extent possible; and  (d) restructuring remaining transport sector
parastatals as public enterprises to be run on a commercial basis, with
significantly enhanced financial and managerial autonomy and not requiring
any operating subsidies from Government. Both elements are requiredI neither
the policy changes nor the infrastructure investments would by themselves
generate the supply response that is essential to the structural adjustment
program and the achievement of sustained growth.
B. Credit Size and Proaram Comgonents
52.       The  proposed  program  is  estimated  to  cost  US$603  million
equivalent, Including taxes estimated at US$121.9 million. It consists of a
quick-disbursing (36 months) adjustment lendina component of US$20 million
for balance of payments and budget support, and an investment component of
US$583 million (Table 1 below).  IDA and the Special Program for Africa
(Finland) will finance US$15 million and US$5 million, respectively, of the



- 20 -
quick-disbursing component. Bsdoes contributing to narrowing the oxtornal
fianmcing gap, this will provide gonoral budget support and assist Government
In Implementing tho policy changes required to onsuro thatt (a) future budget
allocations for road maintenance will be sufficient to financo easential
maintonance operations5 and (b) the new Soc it' Nationale de Chemins do For
du Snegal will be established on a sound financial basis that wlll be
sustainable without futuro Governmental subsidies for oporations.
53.       The investment component effectively underwrites the five-year
(FY91-FY95) transport sector investment and expenditure program and focusses
practically exclusively on rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
transport infrastructure. Traditionally, funds for maintenance--whether of
roads, railway track, or airport runways--have fallen short of requirements,
and infrastructure has often been left to deteriorate until it requited full
reconstruction. In order to avoid high reconstruction costs, usually double
or triple those of periodic maintenance, a program of priority works has been
identified.   It has been packaged into subprojects designed to attract
maximum cofinaricing from a wide range of donor agencies for the most urgent
interventions, the fin&ncing needs of which far exceed available IDA credit
funds. The program only includes carefully identified priority investments,
all fulfilling the 12 percent rate of return criterion (the averate estimated
ERR - 25 percent), or actions required to assure basic safety of operations.
Interventions in the road subsector consist of 22 subprojects covering
strengthening of about 860 km of severely deteriorated paved roadst periodic
maintenance of 2,065 km of paved and 1,300 km of unpaved roads; routine road
maintenance works by contractors on some 9,000 km of the networks technical
assistance to strengthen sector agencies and training, and consultants'
services for works supervision and studies. Operations in the rail subsector
consist of 25 subprojects and concern intensive maintenance of 180 km of
ttack; replacement of rolling stock with secondhand equipment locally
rehabilitated; spare parts and equipment for maintenance; works (sidings,
marshalling yard) to improve operating efficiency; training, and technical
assistance to SNCS in the areas of traffic management, marketing, finance,
and manpower development.   In the port subsector,  17 subprojemts were
Identified, covering construction of an Improved access road to the recently
opened container terminal in the northern port zone and rehabilitation of
over-aged utility networks; technical assistance for full Implementation of
an agreed Action Plan; and consultants' services for studies.   In the
aviation subsector finally, 12 subprojects were established to cover runway
rehabilitation in Cap Skirring and Ziguinchor, essential navigation equipment
at selected airports, and consultants' services to assist in reorganizing AIR
SENEGAL, and improving ASECNA-Senegal's airport management.   (A detailed
description of all subprojects under the investment component is in
Annex VII.)



- 21 -
Tafl Is Sumr Pora and Prolc C               Tb
,CFAF ml lI Ion                                     a
orolon      g I          T    OxW        Forleg       MOl  Sd   l
PROAM
Aeus b,osnt CO   e"t          f                   -_ -.m                                    - -.
IDA                           4,506                      4,509           15.0                       15.6
FINLAN                        1,5O                       1,'M             5.6                        5.6
Road Coeonent                59,19$   28,897   20,675  18,007           197.2    79.7    60.0   846.5
Rall Co moent                1,0912    6,020    4,824   260262           8.8      10.8    14.4      67.5
Port Cowonent                 4,S48    2,260    8,"69    9,90            15.1      ?.6    1N.8    83.
Aviation Componont            8,899      9J0    1,089    6,418           11.8      8.1      8.0     18.0
Total basu  coat             78.649   82.141  2WM667  189.247           269.9    107.      ft,9   404.0
Phystial contingonelos        9,542    8,967    8,647   17,060           51.7     18.3     11.9    56.9
Price contingencioe          10,424    4,310    3,696   18,638           34.9     14.2    18.6    02.1
Investment Comonent          98.015  46.424   P.6   174.989              26.5    184.7    121.0     8J.
IDIALM   PR1WRAZ  M4M|2£ 9LIMI lALM                                     U"I 1LML ILA  SMa
Prolect Preparation Fcililty                               456                                       1.5
OMTOTAL                                              9,gm
IDA PROJECT
Adjustment Comoonent          4.506      -        -      4.560           lS.O      -        -       15.0
Road Component                9,660      -        -      9,860           32.8      -        -       82.
Rail Component                  796    1,96       -      1,750            2.8      8.5      -        6.9
Port Component                  16       -        -        1SO            O.0      -        -        O.
Aviation Component              209      -        -        260            0.6      -        -        0.8
Total base coat              1s        1.0  ,           1  2.66          M                  -       40.0
Physical contingeniets        1,140       06    1,2065      8.            8.9      0.2      -        4.1
Price contingncies            1,220       96    1,816      4.1            4.1      6.8      -        4.4
Investment Compnonent        18.856    121_   14.         44.5    4-!0             4-0   .48
IDA PJECT as S of P!ogrm                                 15f
Refinaneing of PPF                                                                                   1.6
SUWL 



- 22 -
C. Proaram and Prolect Cost Estimates and Financint
54.       As Indicated in para 52 above, the estimated total nost of the
program including both adjustment and investment components, (plus taxes for
the latter, and physical and pric, contingencies) is US$603 million
equivalent. The foreign exchange component is about US$346.0 million or 57
percent (ef. Table 1). Costs have been estimated in January 1990 prices,
with an exchange rate of US$1 o CFAF 300.  Physical contingencies of 15
percent on average for the road rehabilitation and maintenance component, and
of  10 percent  for other components have been  added.    Annual price
contingencies for foreign expenditures of 5 percent were applied from 1991
through 1996 in accordance with Bank guidelines; for local expenditures, the
same annual price increases of 5 percent p.a. were used to reflect projected
inflation trends. in Senegal.   The share of the project covered by IDA
financing is 75 percent for the adjustment component, and 8 percent for the
investment component. Annex VIII gives the detailed cost estimates for each
subsector program and its components, together with the different co-donors'
share in their financing. While the rail, port and civil aviation subsector
programs are fully financed, there remains a financing gap of some
US$75.5 million equivalent for parts of the Year 4. and Year ' road
rehabilitation and maintenance program (see Table 2 belo).  Funding of this
is being actively pursued by the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation and will
have a priority claim on future financing available for road infrastructure.
55.       The adjustment component of the program will be supported by an IDA
Credit on standard terms of US$15 million and by a Special Joint Financing
non-reimbursable contribution of US$5 million equivalent from Finland, to be
administered by IDA. The foreign exchange costs of the investment program
will be financed by the twelve co-lenders as detailed in Table 2 belowg local
costs will be covered by SNCS, PAD, ASECNA-Senegal, IDA, FED, Italy, and
Government. Government will onlend US$4.0 million of the IDA Credit to SNCS
(track rehabilitation) for 20 years including four years of grace, at 8.0
percent p.a. IDA financing of technical assistance, studies, and training
for the rail, port, and civAl aviation components will be treated as grants
to SNCS, PAD, AIR SENEGAL and ASECNA-Senegal. The execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement with SNCS would be a condition of effectiveness and first
tranche  release.    Since Government  attaches  a high priority to the
rehabilitation of Senegal's priority road network, and to provision of safe
operating conditions in air transport (especially in support of the tourist
industry), budgetary allocation of sufficient counterpart funds will be
assured. Their timely provision is, moreover, a condition of tranche release
under the adjustment component of the Credit, as shown below:



Ibs e9 S_Mrv Praar*m Flnantna Plpan Ineludlna ehvaeal aLd apies centlgg=142%
Cff  MILLIS                                               MS MILLIOS (EX. RATE CFA OM)
Laml     UW      etll    An          nTAL                   am      M&ZL     3E1                  ll L
IDA                          12,        2,92       192      274    14,S17                 40.1      6.7       0.7        1.0      48.6
FED                         16,286        0         e              i0,28                 54.1        0         0          0      S4.1
fA                            6,41        789        9        06    7,144                 21.4       2.4        9         9       28.8
IID                          8,85l4       0    1,99        909      54183                11.2      2         t.0        8.2      18.0
BIb                    2722~~~~g:   9      786         9      8,458                9.1         9      2.4          9       11.5
~gA3£1:681                                 a         0        a      1,                    5.4        0        *          o        6.4
a.         9        9         0       2.8 9.                                              a        goo
ASEOAART.2                        9        0         0g 65              5                  °                             I.8       1.8
A>la 2S   O                                          9        0        954                 0.1      3.1         0         0 a.2
ccc                               9    8179a         $    2,468      7,589                   9    1g.96       6.8        6.2      25.1
FAC                               9       995        9        9        995                   0      8.8         9         9        LI8
ITALY                         8,02    6,994          O        O      9,776                12.8    20.8          0         O       U2.0
UTAUL - DRfi13S             jlanEm    eii       Xo,0    &M         30128                            4      ILl       ."A        225.1
sIeSC                             O    4,468         9        0      4,408                   *      14.8        O         O       14.6
PUD-                              O        9                  O 4,042  9  4,942              O        O      18.4         0       18.4
AEOEAAIT1281U 70                           0         a      857        657                 9          0         a       2.2        2.2
to 847  0  a     0     n $47                ~~94.4       0         9         9       94.4
9S9E4 B8                                                   82.7         O                           82.7
RTST*L - jflA  U            fl.~2                          SZ                           1217.A    I        1143         LI 2w1.2  l
TO 8 fINWCED (GAP)         (22,679)        0         0        0   (22,678)              (75.5)        O         e         0      (75.5)
Tm   oTewl - tam).          ULM            1    1.8       AI2M       848 9 ULM11.4                   14      M4           .
TAXES Psyble                 11 728    4,974    8,580       582    20,815                 89.1     16.7      12.9       1.2       60.6
Tvamory Chop*e         148964        0        9       720    15,684                4.90         a        9        2.4       52.8
4,5SW                                                        15.0
IL.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16                                                                                           5.9
MOAIL Adj ustas. Cequuent*                                           6,999                                                        29.e
IDA (PPF)                                                              459                                                         1.5
tOmLs"                                                             Alumt Gono"t 20.0



- 24 -
(a) Effectiveness and first tranche release conditions would bst (M)
tho inclusion, in the Road Fund budget, of the full amount needed
to carry out the agreed routine and periodic maintenance program
for the following year (estimated at about CFAF 5 billion),
lmplementation of a mechanism assuring timely allocation and
effective use of budgeted maintenance funds for program purposes,
and evidence of deposit of en agreed amount for the first quarter
of FY91 in a designated account; (1i) implementation of a 10
percent overall tariff increase by SNCS; (i1i) conclusion of the
financial restructuring arrangements of SNCSI and (iv) signature
of Contract Plans between Government and SNCS, PAD, and SOIATRA AIR
SENEGAL as agreed under SAL IV.
(b) The second tranche mould be released on evidence that Road Fund
allocations for the past year have been fully comuitted on agreed
program works and that no contractor bills are more than 3 months
outstanding; that next year's maintonanoe works are fully budgeted,
and that at least 50 percent of maintenance works have been
programed for execution by contractors; that agreed financial and
operating targets of SNCS, SONATRA AIR SENEGAL, and PAD have been
met; and that PAD has introduced an agreed now tariff structure.
(c) The third tranche would be released on the basis of the same
criteria for the road sector as In previous years, except that tho
percentage of works to be carried out by contractors would be 60
percent; on evidence that SNCS, PAD, and SONATRA AIR SENEGAL
financial and operating targets have been met; and that an Action
Plan for ASECNA-Senegal will have been agreed upon and
implementation started.
Second and third tranche releases would also be conditioned on satisfactory
implementation of the overall program and of the macro-economic adjustment
program.
D. Implementation
56.       Implementation of the road works will be the responsibility of
MINEQ through the executing agency of the DTP. Axreement has been reached
with Government that pavement strengthoning, periodic maintenance and an
increasing share of routine maintenance of the road network will be
Implemented by contract. Works execution will be supervised by consultants
and by DTP engineers.
57.       SNCS will be responsible for execution of the rail comnonent.
Construction of major facilities (service station, marshalling yard), main
track repair works, as well as major overhauls of rolling stock and
signalling maintenance will be implemented through specialised contractors to
be hired under bilateral financing.   Only routine and some periodic
maintenance will continue to be carried out by SNCS personnel, since these
works are scattered and contractor mobilization would be difficult. Machines
needed for track repair works which are to be procured under the project will
be suitable for subsequent use In maintenance. Track rehabilitation and
other subcontracted works will be supervlsed by experienced technical
'Assistants and by SNCS onglneers to ensure that the quality of works is
satisfactory.



- 25 -
S8.       PAD will be responsible for execution of tho oort gomoonent.
Construction of the northern access road and rehabilitation of port utility
networks will be carried out by contractors aad supervised by consultants In
accordance with cofinancier's procedures.
59.       ASECNA will act as the executing agency responsible for the
construction and subsequent operation of the civil aviation project works
under terms and conditions which are satisfactory to the cofinanciers and the
Association. Project management, design, engineering, preparation of tender
and contract documents, contract award, and construction supervision servics
will be provided by ASECRA based on a percentage fee. The estimated total
cost of these services is much lower than would be the case If outside
consultants were retainod, due in part to the agency's familiarity with
conditions and procedures in the region.
60.       To ensure overall program coordination and monitoring, a Project
Coordination Unit will be established to provide regular liaison with all co-
donors, support the various project executing agencies in procurement and
disbursement matters, coordinate documentation and reporting, and institute
monitoring procedures for the adjustment measures. The unit would benefit
from the technical assistance services of an exporienced transport specialist
throughout the project period. A Project Coordinator acceptable to IDA has
been appointed.   Atreement was  reached at negotiations on an overall
supervision plan for the various project components.
E. Procurement
61.       Under the quick-disbursing adiustment cogPonent of the Credit, it
Is proposed that eligible Imports by public agencies and, by the private
sector exceeding US$2 million would be subject to International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Procurement by public agencies for items costing below the
threshold will follow standard Government practices acceptable to IDA.
Eligible general Imports below the threshold by private entities would be
procured t- accordance with normal commercial practices, and wherever
possiblo, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries
would be sought. Single source purchasing vould only be used for proprietary
equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment requires
standardization. Procurement documentation would be maintained for ea-post
review by the Bank. A series of actions under SAL IV will strengthen the
custom servlces' capabilities for price verification of Imports; the impact
of these measures are to be reviewed in September 1991.  If not found
satisfactory, appointment of expert certification agencies would be
considered.
62.       Unless otherwise Indicated below, procurement arrangements under
the investment component for the overall project will be as follows* civil
works contracts in excess of US$2.5 million equivalent and contracts for
goods costing more than US$200,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB.
Civil works contracts under US$2.5 million equivalent and not excoeding
US$13 million in aggregate, and contracts for goods costing betweon
USS60,000-200,000 and not exceeding US$500,000 in aggregate, would be



2 26 -
procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association. Goods valued at lese than US$60,000 per contract, including
fuel fox road maintenance up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million, vould be
procured by competitive shopping based on at least three quotations. Spare
parts and accessories which are of proprietary nature may be purchssed, with
IDA agreement, under directly negotiated contracts with sole suppliers or
agents, within an aggregate coiling of US$1.5 million.   The review and
approval of contract award decisions would distinguish between small- and
medium-size contracts following procedures detailed below (para 63). Studies
and technical assistance for project management support financed by IDA will
be commissioned according to the Association's guidelines for the recruitment
of consultants.   Procurement decisions for all transactions under IDA
financing in excess of US$300,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review.
Procurement for subcomponents executed with paral.el financing from different
co-donors will follow the respective rules of the agencies concerned.
Overall procurement arrangements are summarised in Table 3 below.
63.       For the road component, civil works under US$2.5 million equivalent
and not exceeding US$9.5 million in aggregate for routine and some of the
periodic road maintenance operations would be procured under local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Adequate competition is
expected as there is a sufficient number of qualified local contractors. The
review and approval of LCB contract award would distinguish between small-
and medium-size contracts (below and above US$300,000 respectively). For all
civil work contracts related to the implementation of an elitible subproject,
DTP or DTT would:
-    prepare tender documents;
-    issue tender invitations;
-    open tenders; and
-    prepare tender evaluation.
In the case of contracts for less than US$300,000 at the date of bid opening,
MINEQ without IDA involvement, woulds
-    award contracts;
-    sign contracts; and
-    issue notice to proceed together with payment of an advance
to contractors.
The tender evaluation with the justification for the award decision would be
kept on file in MINEQ offices for review by IDA. In the case of contracts
worth US$300,000 equivalent or more (corresponding to upwards of 15 km of
regravelling) at the ttme of bid opening, MINEQ would seek IDA agreement
before finalizing the contract and would for this purpose transmit to IDAs
-    the tender evaluation report indicating the award decision and
its justification; and
-    the draft contract.



- 27 -
IDA would review this information and, if satisfied, indicate no objection to
the contract award.  Contracts worth US$300,000 or more are estimated to
account for 75 percent of the civil works expendi:ares and 13 percent of the
number of contracts.
64.       If procurement were  found unsatisfactory,  IDA would  request
clarification. If IDA should reasonably determine, after consultation with
the Borrower, that the execution of an eligible subproject was proceeding on
the basis of a contract inconsistent with the procurement procedures agreed
under the Credit, IDA would cancel from the Credit the amount corresponding
to its scheduled participation in such contract.
65.       For the railway comnonent, construction of efficiency enhancing
facilities will be done by local or foreign contractors after competitive
bidding in accordance with co-donors' rules and procedures.  The ballast
needed for track rehabilitation will be procured from local contractors after
LCB and financed by IDA for 85 percent of the total cost.
66.       For the port component, procurement for civil works by contract and
for equipment purchases will follow procedures of the r spective
cofinanciers.
67.       Concerning the civil aviation component, ASECN. will negotiate with
overseas suppliers for the highly specialized equipment required   for
purposes of standardization and compatibility with existing equipment used
throughout the ASECNA system, and to take advantage of ASECNA bulk purchasing
procedures.   This procedure is consistent with normal ASECNA equipment
procurement practice for their member countries, and the arrangement has been
used satisfactorily in past IDA projects in which ASECNA has been the
executing agency. For civil works, procurement will follow the co-donors'
competitive bidding procedures under ASECRA supervision.
68.       Studies and technical assistance for management support (except
bilateral technical assistance) for all components will be commissioned in
accordance with the Association's guidelines for recruitment of consultants.
Bilaterally financed technical assistanti will have specific terms of
reference with verifiable goals to be achieved, in the same way as those
financed by IDA.



- 28 -
Table 8: PoormU   and IDA PrWO]     Ameunien    tbd o-f -Prumv~tm     2
( at I Iion oqulvalont)
SMemrs                             Lft              LC8                ,L
bigd Comoon"            W          22.0  22.0         08.9 (8.81     869.0 (9.6}40n                  US
Clvi IWork*                                           SWlN (  a (:t!59A48.0              4.4
Equipmnt and material -s-                              4.1       (--                       4.1
Conr. Services, Tecbn.               -    -             -     -       18.  ()             IS-      (9.
Assist. & Training
P_;_____ ___on____ n4_ -_.t  4.7)                                     ___4 Q6. M-9                  tOG0)
Civil Work* (including ballast                         5.2 ;4.4)      4J.8 (-)            40.0    (4.4)
for track hablitati on)
Equipmet and Materical                                0.8 (0.8)       19.1 (-)            19.4      (0.8)
Con. Services, Techn.                -     -            -     -       12.  (1.0)          12.6      (1.9)
Assist. A Training
Port Cooonent                        ^. (-              - .           884 to.Jn           89.4     .Ln
Civil Works                          -     -             -    -       2892
Equipment and Materlils              -     -             -    -        6.9                 6.9 
Cons. Servtces, Techn.                                                 4.6 C .7)           4.6      (0.7)
Assist. A Training
Aviation Comoonent                   -.- t?L8                                             2J06     (6.61
Civil Works                          -     -             -    -       14.1 C-)            14.1        (-
Equipment and Materials              -     -             -    -        5.6                 5.         (-
Cons. Services, Techn.               -     _             _    -        09 (6.1)            0.0      (6.8
Assist. & Training
Total Investment Comoonent        _226 (22.6)       69.4 (18.0)    41.0 (U.9.)   sSUI
CivIl Works                        22.6 (22.6)      65.0 (12t?)    4.                    517.6    (8 5.
Equtpment and Materials              -     -          4.4 (6.8)      80.6  -)             8s0       (0. 8
Cons. Services, Techn.               -      -)              (-)      ao.9  12.9)          81.0   (12.0
Assist. A Training
Adustment Sg                                                                              20.0   (15.0)
TOTAL PROJECT                                                                            00f8 0        L
Prolect Presration Facility                                                                33      It&J
o/   ksounts In () indicate IDA shoro In totals.
p   Consultancy contract., though internationally procured, are *hown under 'other' according to teh Sashs
operations manual;'other' also includes procurement methods applying to donors other than IDA.
E/   lCB, LCD and 'shoppin  my npply, dependin on  si  of controcts-dietribution not estimable.



- 29 -
F. Disbursements
69.          The proposed  IDA Credit of US$65 million equivalent will bo
made to the Government of Senegal at the standard terms of the Association.
US$1.5 million will be used to refinance funds made avallable to Government
under the IDA Project Preparation Facility.   The proceeds of the quick-
disbursing adiustment component (US$15 million equivalent) of the IDA Credit
would be disbursed in three tranches of US$2 mlllon, US$6.5 million, and
US$6.5 millLon equivalent, with the US$5 milllon equivalent of the FLnnish
SPA contrlbution also being disbursed as part of the first tranche. They
would be used to reimburse 100 percent of the CIF cost of ellgible general
imports. Public and private sector Imports would be elLgible, except for:
(a) negative list; (b) imports of goods under contracts costLng lose than
US$5,000 equivalent; (c) imported goods already financed under bilatoral or
multllateral credits; and (d) imported goods purchased on the local market.
Thls procedure is preferable to the flnancing of transport-related imports
because: (L) the medium-term capital needs of the sector as identLfied in the
Transport Sector Investment Program are already fully met by donors, ss are
(LL) part of the recurrent needs of the sector. The remaining needs for
spare parts and petroleum products are estimated to be below available funds;
in any cse, they would be elLgible general Imports.
70.          The Government will establlsh a Special Account at the Central
Bank (BCEAO) to facilitate disbursements under the adjustment component of
the Credlt. An initLal deposit of US$2 million would be made on fulfillment
of the conditions for 'irst tranche release; subsequently, the account vould
be replenished regulacly, up to the lLmat of the first tranche, on the basis
of fully documented reimbursement applications in excess of US$500,000 or on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for expenditures below that
amount.    The minimum  amount  of  replenishment  appllcatLons would  be
US$300,000.  The Central Bank would lndicste on the SOZo the nature and
orlgin of the goods, as well as the payment date, and would maintain all
relevant supporting documentation (invoices, evidence of shipment, customs
declarations, evidence of payment) for review by Bsak supervLsion misslons.
Expenditures under the IDA Credlt would be ln accordance wlth normal IDA
rules. Retroactlve dlsbursement would be pormltted for an amount not
exceeding 20 percent of the total adjustment component, for eligible Imports
procured no earlier than four months before Credit signing. Expendltures
covered by the Finniah contribution would be subject to rules established
under the Umbrella Agreement between the Government of FLnland and IDA.
71.          Credit  categorles  and  disbursement  percentages  for  the
investment  gortion of  the  Credit  are  sumarized  In  Table  4 below.
DS-buree _nts for clvll works and consulting services would be on the basis
of contracts. It is estimated that a maximum of about 25 contracts will be
signed. Disbursements for purchase of vehicles, equipment, and furniture
will be made on the basis of approved contracts. Dlsbursement applLceatons
against contracts will not be for less than US$10,000.  The dlsbursement
schedule does not differ from the standard Africa Reglonal Profile for
transport projects (6 years): given the past performance of projects ln
Senegal, the application of the profile without any changes appears
justLfied. A second Special Account will be established by Government In a



- 30 -
comuercial bank to facilitate disbursements for office rehabilitation,
furniture and equipment, and for spare parts procured under the investment
component; an Initial deposit of US$500,000 equivalent would be made on
fulfillment of the conditions of effectlveness and first tranche rollose.
Table 4s IDA Credit Disbursement Categories and Percentages
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE      AMOUNT (USS m)    I Expenditure to
be Financed
Investment Component
1.  Civil Works by Contracts           24.1
(a) For road rehabilitation            10.5         67S of total cost
(b) For periodic road
maintenance                        12.1         672 of total cost
(c) For office rehabilitation           0.6         402 of total cost
(d) Office and teaching
equipment and spare parts           0.9         65Z of total cost
2.  Eaui_ment and Materials
(a) Ballast for railway track
rehabilitation                      3.5         852 of total cost
(b) Office and teaching                 0.5         652 of total cost
equipment for railway
component
3. Consultancv Services for Studies.
and Civil Works Supervislon.
Technical Assistance and Trainina 11.9
(a) For road component                  8.5         80S  of total cost
(b) For railway component               1.5         802 of total cost
(c) For port component                  0.6         802 of total cost
(d) For aviation component              0.7         802 of total cost
4.  Project Coordination Unit           0.6         802 of total cost
5.  Refinancina of PPF                    SN/A
6.  Unallocated
Adiustment ComRonent                   150
-



- 31 -
0. Accounting and Auditina
72.       Accounting, costing, and budgeting systems for the road, rail and
port components have been established at DTP under tho Fifth Highway Project,
at SNCS under the PPF and at PAD under the Dsksr Container Port Project.
They will be further Improved under the project through special financial
assistance and introduction of computorised management system_. Independent
external auditors acceptable to the Association havo carried out audits of
earlier Road Projects, of the ex-RCFS, and of PAD, sad will continue to do
so. Similar arrangements will be made with DTT and DAC (AIR SENEGAL, ASECNA
ART. 10), with audit reports to be submitted to IDA within four months of the
end of the fiscal year. Special audits of Statements of Expenditure (S0Es)
will be carried out twice a year.
H. Reoortint
73.       With the help of the concerned project implementation agencies and
their consultants, the Project Coordinator will prepare quarterly or semi-
annual reports on overall program and project implementation and expenditureo
for submission to the MINEQ, the Association, and co-donors. These reports
will also include key indicators monitoring progress, and financial and
operational results, of the sectoral parastatals.   The precise reporting
requirements including monitoring indicators were astreed upon during
negotiations.
I * Impact on Environment and Ewloiiment
74.       The proposed maintenance and rehabilitation works pose no threat
to the environment. The alignments of the roads, as well as the railway
tracks follow existing corridors, hence there is no risk of deforestation or
property disturbance. The new paved road surfaces will minimise pollution by
dust in the dry season and mud in the rainy season for the local residents.
75.       The construction of a paved road between Dialokoto and Redougou,
financed entirely by other donors outside the proposed program, raised
environmental concerns, since the road passes through a national park which
has been declared a World Heritage Site. The Bank informed UNESCO, the
agency responsible for World Heritage sites, of the potential problem and of
our concerns.  UNESCO requested that the Government undertake a thorough
investigation of the environmental impact of this project before start-up of
construction and study an alternative route around the park. Tho study was
completed and submitted to IDA and UNESCO eleven months after negotiations;
its results are satisfactory to IDA with regard to the measures proposed to
protect the environment.
76.       The civil works components, both in the highways and the railways
subsectors, would generate employment opportunities for some 3,200 unskilled
laborers and about 800 skilled operators and drivers for the project period
of five years. The project would also generate some 800 permanent additional
jobs by engaging private small-scale contractors for routine maintenance.



- 32 -
J. Protect Justification
77.       The project is fully justified by the joint benefits that wil
result from the implementation of policy reforms and the execution of the
investment program. The benefits include both direct economic benefits from
the investment programs--largely In terms of reduced transportation costs--
and from the econo-financial benefits resultilg from the increased officiency
generated by the policy reforms. Both will facilitate the achievement of the
durable private sector supply rosponse that is the prime objectivo of the
adjustment program and an indispensable precursor of sustainable economic
growth. The proposed project has been structured as a hybrid for a variety
of mutually reinforcing reasons.
First, it forms am integral part of the country assistance strategy
for Senegal, the essence of which Is that SAL operations will focus on a few
critical macroeconomic Issues while eector policy Issues will be dealt with
in SECALs or hybrids.   This approach permits the diversification of
adjustment type, quick-disbursing vehicles that support the SPA and
facilitate cofinancing. More important, it avoids loading the SAL operations
with a variety of sectoral reforms, risking derailing the macro adjustment
process because one sectoral Issue canno%. oe resolved.  In addition, it
allows a spectrum of policy issues to be dealt with through a more continuous
process, rather than in large, infrequent lumps.
Socond, it has permitted a more effective sectoral dialogue, since
the stimulation of a supply response through the reduction of transport costs
depends on both the improvement of transport infrastructure and the
introduction of sectoral policy reforms.  Treating these two Integrated
elements under separate operations would weaken the policy dialogue and
encourage Government, as In the past, to focus on infrastructure construction
at the expense of policy reform. This, at least in part, explains why policy
measures attached to sector investment loans as "complementary easures' or
even through covenants have not been very successful.
Third, it has succeeded in getting attention for the critical
sectoral reforms at the appropriate level.   In Senegal as elsewhere,
Government is not homogeneous and, typically, technical ministries have been
unsuccessful in promoting policy reforms In the areas of arrears, tariff
Increases and staffing reduction because these issues are the responsibility
of ministries of plan and of finance. Attaching an adjustment component to
the investment credit has ensured that these essential reforms received
proper attention in the relevant ministries.
Fourth, policy reform is a process not an event.   Thus, the
availability of quick-disbursing resources in several tranches facilitatos
the continuing reform process by focusing attention (at the appropriate
levels) on the prograsmnng, monitoring and recognition of the various steps
in the reform process.
Fifth, direct financing of road maintenance expenditure has proved
not be an effective approach. Under earlier Hlighway Projects, Government hss
not had to fully budget its own funds and, once the projects had finished,



- 33 -
expenditure  returned to an inadequats level.   Using a hybrid approach
obliges the Goverrmont to budgeti$e road maintenance funds on a regular basis
("sslsted by non-earmarked quick-disbursing funds), thus Increasing the
probability of continued adequate funding at the end of the project.
Sixth, the hybrld structure has proved offiieont. It has permitted
the achiovement of agreements on sector policy issues and substantial up-
front action with a very small quick-disbursing component of about 3.52 of
total program cost.
78.       In Senegal, the Government has an adjustment program in place, that
Is both supportive of, and complemented by, the proposed operation. A sector
strategy has been produced by the Government (as set out In the Declaration
of Sectoral Development Policy) and endorsed by the donor community, which
has pledged the majority of the resources required for the program that
supports the sector strategy. The investment component is technically sound,
but would be much less effective in the absence of both up-front and
continuing policy reform. Thus, the mutually supportive nature of the reform
and   investment   components   fosters   and   justifies   complementary
conditionalities under the two components through compliance with the Policy
Letter. Finally, the achievement of the policy objectives In this project is
expected to pave the way to the resumption of more traditional sector
investment lending in the future.
Benefits
79.       The main benefits expected from the proposed project will be: (a)
improved over-all sectoral investment planning, with priority given to
appropriate allocations of funds for maintenancel (b) more efficient and
effective utilization of resources in the trasoport sector; (c) operational
and financial rehabilitation and effective management of transport
parastatals; and (d) increased reliance on private contractors in the
execution of maintenance works in the different subsectors, especially roada.
The  project  has  already  been  Instrumental  in  the  actual  (upfront)
introduction of an Important number of the reform mesaures needed to bring
the transport sector in line with the overall re-orientation of Senegal's
economy under successive structural adjustment operations.   It has also
served to attract the very substantial cofirancing required for Implementing
the needed sector rehabilitation measures fully. Most Importantly, this
project has coalesced the necessary support by the donor commiunty to changes
In sectoral policy and, through its adjustment component, assures that
reforms on the policy agenda, which are socially and politleally difficult to
Implement, may be effectively addressed.
Economic Justification
80.       The economic benefits of the actions proposed are significant: by
transferring funds from dubious now construction to essential maintenance of
intensely used infrastructure, high ERRs (12-85 percent based on standard
user cost-savings methodology) have been obtained for the majority of
Investment subprojects.   (Details of the economic evaluation are in the
Project FileO  By preventing the imminent breakdown of part of the existing



- 34 -
transport network and helping to contain and reduce transport costs through
substantial efficiency gains sector-wide, vehicle operating costs, railway
operating costs, and port and aviation charges will be substantially reduced.
The project, thus, will make Senegal's products more affordable to its
citizens, and more competitive in export markets. An additional important
benefit results form the project's impact on employment: it Is expected to
generate jobs for asme 3200 unskilled construction workers and 800 skilled
operators and drivers for the project period of five years. In addition, 800
ancillary Jobs for routine maintenance will be created by engaging private
small-scale contractors, some of whom will have been developed under IDA's
Public Employment Project.
Risks
81.       The main risk faced by the project is Governmont's ability to live
up to its financial commitments. In the road subsector, the massive
rehabilitation program implies a tripling of annual budget allocations for
maintenance over the project Implementation period, after which they could be
reduced somewhat but would have to remain at levels substantially above those
heretofore provided.  In railways (SNCS) and airport management (ASECNA-
Senegal), successful financial rehabilitation plans are predicated on
adequate tariff increases, timely compensation payments by Government for
losses occasioned by the provision of any social services these companies way
be requested to furnish, and on agreement to effective short-term debt
restructuring measures. Experience with previous transport sector Contract
Plans--among the earliest concluded between public sector companies and
Government--has been disappointing because Government proved unable to
fulfill its part of the bargain. The main factor mitigating these risks io
the substantial progress--facilitated by the hybrid structure of the
project--that has already been achieved; it will be further strengthened by
the requirement under SAL IV that public enterprise rehabilitation plans and
Government's commitments under contract plans be explicitly included in
budgets or other appropriate instruments. SAL IV and TSAIP conditionalities
in this respect would be mutually reinforcing since both seek the reduction
of overall Government expenditure, while at the same time increasing specific
priority allocations that would result in significant future savings. For
the road maintenance sector, the problem is not one of raising additional
funds: the present level of road user charges is high, their collection
relatively efficient, and measures are already in place or envisaged to
ensure strict control of expenditures. The problem is effective change in
the allocation of funds, which Government has endorsed.  For rail and civil
aviation, productivity improvements and relatively modest tariff increases
should obviate the need for future operating subsidies. Port operations have
already improved to the point where PAD can cover a significant part of its
rehabilitation needs, and full implementation of the operational and
financial action plan is expected to result in further productivity gains and
a potential reduction in port tariffs in support of improved competitiveness
of Senegal's exports.



- 35 -
V. BANK GSOUP STRATEGY AND MPERATIONS
A. Cou_nty Assistance Strate&Z
82.       Bank strategy in Senegal has two broad and interrelated objectives.
The first objective ls to assist the Government In the medium-term In
rectifying structural Imbalances in the economy which are the cumulative
result of internal and external shocks, and of policy distortion. over
several years, compounded by the fixed exchange rate regime.  To improv, the
incentives environment and to promote greater efficiency in economic
management, the primary instrument has been adjustment lending, buttressed by
appropriate technical assistance operations.  The second objective is to
promote a sustainable level of long-term growth and development.   The
instruments  designed  to  address  this  objective  are  sector-based
rehabilitationlinvestment projects, within an appropriate framework of
sectoral policy reforms.
83.       The country's development strategy, as spelled out in the most
recent Policy Framework Paper for 1990/91 to 1992193, lays heavy emphasis in
the short-term on improving incentives for private investment; rehabilitating
the banking system and deregulating the financial sectorl and Improving
resource utilization and expenditure control In the public sector. These
objectives are supported by the SAL IV operation (February 1990) and by a
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (December 1989).  Together, these two
operations are expected to improve the utilization of existing production
capacity and, thus, to improve the competitiveness of Senegalese industry.
Furthermore, they will increase the volume of and improve the quality of
public and private investments and thereby enhance growth prospects in the
medium-term. Beyond 1992, the Government recognizes the need to rebuild
productive capacity, even as the earlier stabilization and structural reforms
continue.   Thus, the public investment program for that future period
includes major projects in energy distrlbution, in water supply, and highway
rehabilitation and maintenance, for which IDA financial assistance has been
requested. The proposed lending program in the period beyond 1990/91 is thus
balanced between investment programs in urban infrastructure and services
(sanitation, water, energy) and policy-cum-investment operations which focus
on further private sector development, on the environment, and on human
resources development.
84.       Bank assistance strategy is not predicated on Senegal changing the
nominal exchange rate. Such a decision cannot be taken unilaterally given
Senegal's membership in UMOA and in the CFA Franc Zone.  To achieve the
depreciation of the real exchange rate which is required to increase the
external competitiveness of the Senegalese economy, appropriate demand-
management policies, together with additional measures to reduce production
costs and to encourage production of tradables, must continue to be
implemented over an extended period of time. The envisaged adjustment period
may, therefore, be longer and more difficult and the export response slower
than would be the case if the nominal exchange rate could be devalued.
Nonetheless, Senegal is expected to be able to meet its objectives over the
medium-term, provided it consistently applies required policy measures that
are being supported through the adjustment program.



- 36 -
S. Bank Groul Operations. Past and Future
85.       As of April 30, 1991, the Bank Group had approved 92 operations in
Senegal for a total of about US$1,020 million, consisting of 60 IDA credits
(including three Special Fund credits), 20 Bank loans, two SPA and nine IYC
operations. To date, 45 credits and the 20 loans have been fully disbursed.
Of the 18 active projects, 5 are in agriculture or rural development, 4 In
industry and energy, 4 in infrastructure, 1 in human resources; there are
also 4 TA and adjustment operations. SAL IV (US$80 million) was approved in
January 1990. As discussed above, Bank assistance will focus heavily on
adjustment for the next few years, particularly at the sectoral level.
86.       In the area of Structural Adjustment, the SAL II  and SAL II.
operations have been for the most part successfully completed. The ongoing
SAL IV operation builds on the experience of SALs II and III, but focuses on
a relatively limited number of critical actions to support Government's
medium-term objectives summarized in para 9 above. A tec6nical assistance
project is in place to help with the formulation and implementation of the
various action programs included in the SAL operations, with messures to
improve the management of p: blic investment, public debt, personnel
information and career develop- ent, management of economic information, and
the development of a policy f lmulation capacity.
87.       While some measures aimed at the reform of the bankinA system of
Senegal were supported under SAL III, the dimensions of the crisis in the
financial sector were initially underestimated by IDA and the Government. A
subsequent IDA-financed study of the causes of the problem found that 8 of 15
banks, either wholly or partly owned by the Government and including those
banks to be rehabilitated under SAL III, were effectively bankrupt. They had
nonperforming loans of CFAF 233 billion (or 15 percent of GDP) out of a total
loan portfolio of CPAF 323 billion and debt outstanding to the BCEA0 of CFAF
167 billion. The sharp deterioration in the financial position of the system
was attributed to poor management as well as to inappropriate policies, at
both the BCEA0 and Government levels. The study drew particular attention to
the following problems: (a) the negative impact of mandatory credit ceilings
per bank and per sector on good lending practices; (b) interference by the
Government in lending decisions; (c) lax supervision of banks leading to
disregard of prudent financial ratiost and (d) laxity in the application of
refinancing policies. These problems are being tackled under the Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit.
88.       The next phase of reforms in the atricultural sector will be
supported by the Bank under a separate Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(AGSECAL). This phase will be characterized by policy development In areas
complementary to the thrust of the improvements made to date. The overall
aim of the Agriculture SECAL is to support more efficiency and price
responsiveness in agriculture, a decrease in government controls, and the
elimination of subsidies. In particular, the reforms to be pursued will bet
(a) in the cereals subsector--further review of the system of protection with
the overall goal of encouraging the production and transformation of coarse
grains in which Senegal has a comparative advantage (i.e., millet and
sorghum), diversifying production into other crops such as maize, and further



- 37 -
liberallzing the rice market; (b) in the groundnut subsector--action planning
to reduce losseo In processing and privatization of confectionery groundnut
operations, and revised protection against Imported oils as a precursor to
the eventual elimination of all subsidies; (c) a full review of the
agricultural credit system; and (d) the development of appropriate lend
tenure and land management regimes to encourage resource conservation and
long-term private investment, especially In the Fleuve region. Measures to
reduce losses in the cotton subsector and to promote diversification for
exports would also be pursued.
89.       The two other sectors where Important reforms are to be pursued are
transport and human resources. The Bank Group has been among the principal
sources of external financing for transport development in Senegal. Since
1966, it has made 15 loans and credits totalling US$167.6 million in current
prices. Six of these wero for roads (US$91.2 million); four for railways
(US$48.9 million); three for ports (US$17.5 million); and two for aviation
(US$10 million). In addition, the Bank Group has financed feeder roads under
agricultural projects, and mobilized considerable cofinancing. In the road
subsector, the most intractable and long standing issue has been adequate
funding for maintenance. Successive projects have supported improvements in
road maintenance organization and execution, with more success than in most
other countries in the region.  But the backlog of deferred maintenance
nevertheless has perilously increased as the network continued to expand.
Operational and financial performance in the railway subsector which remained
disappointing partly for reasons of internal efficiency of the ex-RCFS, and
partly because of conflicting interventions by other donors, have
significantly Improved during project preparation. In the port subsector,
substantial progress has been made towards a competently run and financially
autonomous port authority. In the aviation subsector, projects in the 1970s
emphasized airport infrastructure improvemeit, mainly in support of the
developing tourism industry, but efforts to improve financial management
remained at the level of studies. with little or no follow-up, when londing
to the subsector ceased.
90.       Under the proposed TSAIP, major improvement is being sought In the
planning, operations, and management of the transport sector in Senegal. A
dialogue has been established with the Government since a policy review
meeting with the Bank in late 1986. Broad agreement, as included ia the
Letter of Transport Policy, has been reached on the need for reform In three
main areass (a) improved investment planning in the transport sector with a
target of at least 80 percent of investment in the sector earmarked for
infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, and a stronger emphasis
through 1991 on repairing the dilapidated highway network; (b) increased
mobilization of sector resources through  improved efficiency, cost control,
and revised tariff policies which are expected to be especially vital in the
rail.ways and ports subsectorsl and (c) strengthened sector management through
a series of institutional reforms, Including a revitalization of the
Directorate of Land Transport and a change in the legal status of the
railways parsstatal. Improved transport efficie'kcy is a key factor in the
process of improving market responsiveness in the economy and reducing costs
of production for agriculture and industry.   The envisaged Governmont
investment program for the period 1991-95 provides for an increasing role for



- 38 -
the private sector, with three fourths of road maintoenance to be contracted
out by the end of the project period.
91.       Perhaps the most serious constraint to long-term growth in Senegal
is the present low level of human resource develooment. Low literacy levels,
inadequate health standards, and the absence of a clearly articulated action
plan for controlling the growth of the population will severely limit
prospects for growth in agriculture, Industry and the service sector, and,
moreover, without concerted action, will prevent any medium term Improvement
in living standards. Previous interventions in education have been directed
toward strengthening primary education, especially in rural areas,
restructuring educational expenditures toward the primary level, and at
technical and vocational training to support the requirements of the
productive sectors. In health, the emphasis has been on strongthening the
delivery of primary care in rural regions, and on developing health, family
planning and nutrition education, within an integrated program of maternal
and child health care and family planning. In addition, under SAL III, the
Government formulated a national population policy statement. To have any
impact, this indicative statement needs to be trasnlated into a concrete
program with clearly stated priorities.
92.       However, additional efforts are required to develop the social
sectors during this period of economic adjustment and to improve the internal
and external efficiency of the resources allocated to this sector.   To
address these issues, two projects, on population and health, and education,
are currently under preparation. These hybrid operations woulds (a) support
sectoral adjustment measures to promote more efficient and equitable resource
allocation In the sector, and (b) finance priority investments designed to
(i) implement the population policy, (1i) strengthen basic health care
delivery and sectoral institutions, (iiI) accelerate the development of
primary education and restructure technical and vocational training, and (iv)
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Government to develop and
coordinate a comprehensive human resource development strategy.
93.       While the adjustment program concentrates primarily on the directly
productive sectors, the Government has focused its efforts to improve basic
services to the population with the assistance of multilateral organizations
sad non-governmental institutions.   As part of the multicountry Social
Dimensions of Adlustment project, financed by the United Nations Development
Program and executed by the World Bank, Government has started work to
compile data on income distribution and welfare indicators, to study the
socioeconomic impact of adjustment programs, and to identify compensatory
programs of action where needed. In addition socioeconomic studies will be
prepared with a view to identifying projects and programs to minimise the
cost of adjustment for the most vulnerable groups.
94.       The Government  also  recognizes  that the degradation of the
environment represents a serious constraint on Senegal's development,
especially in view of rapid population growth. Its impact is already being
felt in the reduction of yields caused by the fall in soil fertility, in the
loss of forest cover arising from the intensive use of fuelwood, and In the



- 39 -
deterioration of the urban oenvironment.    Bank projects will address
environmental issues where applicable.
VI.   COORDINATION WITH THE IMF
95.       The IMP program has been developed in close collaboration with Bank
staff, and is consistent with and reinforces the current adjustment program
in Senegal. The current ESAP program amounts to SDR 145 million and was
approved on November 21, 1988 for a three-year deriod. The first and second
year arrangements under the ESAF were concluded satisfactorily, and In? staff
is currently discussing the third-year program with the Senegalese
authorities. Bank staff participate fully in those negotiations. Prior to
LSA", the IMF had successfully implemented a SAF and a series of stand-by
agreements.   The Bank will continue to work closely with t4e IMF in
maintaining macroeconomic stability and to ensure consistency in policy
reforms.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
96.       During negotiations, azreement was reached or confirmed on the
following:
General
(a) All sectoral investments over US$1 million to be subject to a 122
Economic Rate of Return criterion (para 15);
(b) An overall supervision plan for the various project components
(para 60)t
(c) Government has produced a satisfactory environmental impact
statement on construction of the Dialokoto-Kedougou road and has
agreed to implement its findings;
(d) A project coordinator acceptable to IDA has been appointed; and
(e) The Minister of Finance confirmed his agreement to put in place an
acceptable mechanism ensuring timely payment of contractors.
With DTP
(a) 80% of road sector investments to be for rehabilitation and
maintenance as opposed to new construction (para 15);
(b) Confirmation of the share of periodic and routine maintenance works
to be successively transferred to private contractors (pare 15 and
Annex IIa, Road Maintenance Action Plan, Section 5);
(c) Submission of first report on personnel management policies by
October 31, 1991 (Annex Ila, Road Maintenance Action Plan,
Section 1)$



- 40 -
(d) Submlssion of first annual program for scrapping uneconomic
equipment by October 31, 1991 (Annex IIb, U(vl));
(e)  Confirmation  of  technical  norms  to  be  adopted  for  road
strengthening works (Annex VII, pars 4);
(f) Agreement on methodology to be used for periodic maintenane
subproject evaluation (Annex Ila, Road Maintenance Action Plan,
Table C);
(g) Confirmation of minimum estimetes for annual routine maintenance
programs, and confirmation of priorities in routine maintenance
interventions (Annex II, Road Maintenance Action Plan, Section 4;
Annex VII, para 6);
(h) Agreement  on  the  organization  of  supervision  for  routine
maintenance works by contract (Annex VII, pare 7); and
(i) Agreement on arrangements for non-prografmmed works (Annex IIs, Road
Maintenance Action Plan, para 7.11).
With DTT
(a)  Agreement on DTT positions to be fllled by October 31, 1991 at the
latest (Annex VII, pare 10); and
(b) Agreement on terms of reference for technical assistance
(Annex VII, pare 10).
With SNCS
(a)  Agr  aent to bring the Contract Plan into force as of July 1, 199C
(p& 33, complied with), including the institutional and financial
reform targets below:
(i)  Agreement on working and current ratios to be maintained over
project period and thereafter (pars 36); and
(11) Agreement on debtlequity and gross cash-flow debt/servlce
ratios (pare 38).
(b) Agreement on financing of technical assistance program In the light
of co-donors' proposals to SNCS.
With PAD
(a)  Agreement to bring the Contract Plan into force as of July 1, 1990
(pars 26, complied with), including the Instltutional and financial
reform targets belows
(1) Agreement on financial performance lndicators on revenue
collection end debt rescheduling (para 41);



- 41 -
(11) Agr.ement on settlem_nt of cross-debts (pars 42);
(iiI) Agreement on labor cost/working expenses and on working
ratios (par. 46);
(iv) Agreement on debt service ratio (pare 48); and
(v) Agreement on a Management Information System, and timetable
for manpower and action plans for each department (pare 26).
(b) Agreement on timetable for cleating up port working sones
(pra. 26).
With AIR SENEGAL
Agreement to bri-ag the Contract Plan into force as of July 1, 1990
(complied with), and on timetable for achieving recovery of long-term
marginal cost on public service routes (pare 29).
97. Adiustment CoSmonent - Tranche Release
Effectiveness and First Tranche Release (pars 55a):
(a)  Agreement on adequate budgetary provisions for road maintenance,
institution of an acceptable mechanism assuring timely allocation
and effective use of funds budgeted for road maintenance (Road
Fund), and evidence of deposit of an agreed amount for the flrst
quarter of FY91 in a designated account; publication of a decree
specifylng organizational responsibility for contracting and
supervision of periodic and routine maintenance worksl
(b)  Full implementation of a 10 percent overall tariff increaae  (above
1987 levels) by SNCS;
(c) Implementation of the financial restructuring plan for SNCSI
(d)  Signature of Contract Plans between Goverrment and SNCS, PAD, and
SONATRA-AIR SENEGAL, ws agreed under SAL IVI
(e)  Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between SNCS and Government;
and
(f)  Submission of a series of standard contracts for routine road
maintenance operations.
Second Tranche (para 55b)t
(a)  Evidence of full allocation and effective disbursement of the
amounts necessary for road maintenance In the previous year;
evidence that the agreed shares of periodic and routine maintenance
works have been carried out by private contractors, and that no



- 42 -
contractor bills are more than three months outstanding; adequate
budgetary allocation for FY92 and deposit of agreed amount for
first quarter in a designated accountt
(b)  Realization of agreed financial and operating targets by SNCS;
(c) Realization of agreed financial and operating targets by PAD;
(d)  Introduction of a revised tariff structure by PAD;
(e)  Realization of agreed financial and operating targets by SONATRA
AIR SENEGAL; and
(f)  Satisfactory progress on the macroeconomic reform program.
Third Tranche: as in (a), ('), (C)t (e) and (f) above, plus
agreemnt on an Action Plan for ASECNA-Senegal, with implementation started
(para 55c).
98.       Investment Component
General
(a)  Compliance with Policy Letter (Annex IIb, V B(i); and
(b) Agreement on any Urban Transport Authority that Government
may wish to establish (para 25).
Road Component
(a)   Budgeting and actual expenditure of adequate resources for
road maintenance for PY94 and FY95 (Annex II, Road
Maintenance Action Plan, pars 6); and
(b)  Adoption of statutes for CPTP satisfactory to the Association
(Annex IIa, Ro&4 Maintenanne Action Plan, pars 7.5).
99.       Subject to the above terms, the proposed project is suitable for
a Credit to the Government of the Republic of Senegal in the amount of US$65
million equivalent, on standard IDA .ermes.



-43 -                                             A-4
I                                          o
$M /to  ulow iw iiiau6io               -       3/      W MwmA
smm.~ u  u Wn o
61e    wA. pw                          4.2    44    '0.5     4       S      14     54       7             .
69 4*fa                                5.0    Ls    W        2.0      A     Z.    L23    2        2J    L2
n 3/4    -34    '.2                                           2.0    Li    ...      ...                  *
%WWz% t44. (to   )                    4        .A    13              LO V4 . 2     64     Oa      9.     9W3
1m. t..  (la am)                      -s      Li    54    -3S3    Lo    1 .4    44 49    44              74
Uka1 Awar. t.b. (to we)               44       -     OA      -4s   2.0    5        44     %A     4
town aIIM                              33 2.   L      29      L4    4j4    7.1    74      74    4        Lo
lmt o_                                 0.2   14      2.0    -.       2.2    7.0    0.     2.0    2       2.
km of  (dMunlm -)6    -)O    04    L0    t4                                       -W      4.3    .7    0
vmdL .1hcboa  mo cm (ad .1 pW%Q*
Ui   -)                               44      2.2    3W     .       3      ... -- *              *
*ML dthrwv       TM (adi ad
dpiinMaiin -)                        44      6O    '0.2    ... 0@3    * *_
bm                                    34.8    042   4L3    34        .A   270    4.3    44        44     43
bsg 6-oni ad at ImANS                7.4    03     59       .     4      44     4A      Ina    2*    2.3
OfW     s_a os aw MOton             (4)   (.6)   MS)   (0.4   (1.7)n  (4)   (S4           .
aW. d @gc
: 4t   Y                           10.97 92    04    -2   -U.4    45             .     0A    @4    44
am"r 0  0rmmm (on) 41                        La42.    -W.  4.      44    .9&    -2.   -4.    4.5    44
tcdosmal $4.                         7.4    .0    -4.    4.6    4        24       i.   34      43
--J*--ed~~~~~~~~~~~L                   Oaw -?         -La   -q6      La    Ls        4     w
loom       00a d                          L2    74       Si    0. 3O           447      4.   4.5    44
%ladqo9mIn  lo                         2.9    44     2.1     4        4     44     44     4.       4 A  4A  45
3mmm (ad a pdat)
_"  =C  E   "*"  
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   i   0 -
nan  au opm m br miuW
_"~~~~~~5                         7 4    9.   *.    6.          C..  *n       ...  _
r.a- aim ai
~a1  ul pa.a,OaS -)
dU.m   W M"4    44    44                             44    44        .1    3       . La    2.  a
be"imn solog  om                    -4.    4.2    .4    -4.3   -5.4   -1.5   .0.        3.1    LS    34
mom fChoaf _m     d Pdf
-    (ind dwW to bUm of WA  _)  440   -M4                            4    n a       0       -     -      -
mas  1oad tiu                          23.    m2.    124     24    12.    12.    34    5.4    3.4    3
am" A.inc  mwi                          6.9    ?.7    74        2      3    94       9.    *A    MA    6.
_icoml *gram    ends t-)
_1adSq Ufl*a       .                  434    4dU3    44      4.9    4      4.4    44    43    o44    4.
aimq  aal ami 0                       4.1    4.     4               -.    AA    44    -a5         62      5
_RnaL ds I/                             74    X.7   065       12    I6       64     2       ,     6"  .
_w  e.t Poo -d rflm
am   ua rinwa) V/                    3.7    34    U5.,   3.       3  34          34M    31.3   n3.?    30
nos at_m I-
(imule" of (54 htav)                1,3   U.       4 L    1,641  1.3.  1J6.  1613    1.~.4  1.630  a.0.
_mI ki. l  p4   m __yl a
doMI* (-7        of il. ml   ),v       W4   -VA.   434      33.    604    16.7  237.    36    MA.    1
am acits" &ule MOM"
(l       a_t  p)                       0.4    04    0.       G.       4     ...    ...    ...    ...      .
Imai  ams pwuSM IV lb uwmm a0.u&Im  mA PAiA ad 1XU6*Mi  MMf NAMAINs OM PP.MON
ti b.I  amimoor U lk  b Atwun  d   I        WAd  00       d p
1it    _o       plw _ IY4i)              m    too&_
T       mlam   _ 094awlbui t1 e_dt.
l aid" cam Mlan tim duu  FA MOM Of  pM VW   5d1 M     Of SM diM @W 2 aMVIS tlb Ss.1 its. SXNA1   %Mm lb   
7/ -.11 a  pout* paas. d_   .    aid    W     atl ad VAM  W U  _AIIAM
/   m  deft uOMAdi. im _~  dlb  cdAM.
UA,w &r6-Uq*Of (mwa i"  d uw1001). aid dgbs C&mMMWn.



- 44 -                                               ^x I
-44-~~~~~~~~~ 
Saplb~t of ?qinu  19657-1194(95 y
(la bIUAos at =A ft. qmlaw *09.'M IMicad)
1.98(6   is67/98   two51          019690         199091    1391192   399,'9   199/9   1394/
~~~~~~~~~~ti. ..t                                  .ea                         .        . ,   _ __
Is   Iso. he Ln9 
fran. Pg5.5    -74.3  445.4   9as  ~-70.8         6.9       50.7        .3    -364.      4.4
Isow. f.o.b.                          a301.1    351.4      245.4    2334      313.1      511.2      -2.0    3%.9       331.5    365.8
Of OviL^. -   vftnc bPcoacu           (y.Z)    (20.L)    (45.5)   (4.6)    (4L9)    (4LW)         (35-9)    (35-0)    (41.0)    (Ar.::
blun. f.o.b.                          -WA7   -2S2.9   -31.2   -311.o   -315.9    -38.1    -"3.7   -349.2   -DO.4   -Jr.2
Of i4i  pa:iaw pcodFe                (-33.6)   C-42.0)   (-34t)   (-31.7)   (-35.5)    (-40.9)    (-A5.J)   (-34)   (.415)   (-44.5)
br-c*S (rat)               ff.:   -72.8    -76.4    -67.3  f.3.5                          -56.9      -5.       -1.4    -46.5    -M.?
Of  e1 ume m an pIblnc tbe    (t45A)   (-30.4)   (-.0)   (-47.1    (-5.0)    (-418)    (.41.6)   (-90.2)   (-37.A)   (-V.7)
nr_-gqtw k  mfts (cet)                   7n.5        2.o      n.74      3.4      77.5      53.7       e4.9      e7.2     08.3      91.2
V. ufw2u  pass oftSaul 0j)M            (7046)    (0.        .0)   .4)         (78.5)     (4.       (85.Z)   (80)    (864)    (.5
C=-0Mc &=rn                              -SOt -)  41.  -75.3  46.4    -.6    -5.8         -30.0      -r.5      .4.5       3.7      1:.'
caps.ga:.  eS.S                                     38.6      34.3     35.7      37.8      70.0       49.0      18.2     1L-       1.3.
":IC :3c (not)                          93.8      75.2      35.5     35.4      36.2       50.0      46.5      13.2       95      U.5
0rs4p                                142.1    132.7       99A      104.1    101.3       75.6       .1       66.3     67.7      70.0
ArdatenU  an                         -48.3    -57.5      44.       45.7    45.1         5.A      -52.6     43.3      48.2    -ss.5
ftira mcr  (cat)                         2.4     -55.2      4.2      -2.7     -1.0         -         2.5      S          .0       54
E:.-On &A au11                          -7.7      -1.4       6.9       -        2.5        -         -         -         -        -
Omwa. baI   (dafts-                        7T     -36.7    -5L L       4.9.   -19.0       -10.0       27.3      9.7      18.2      27.*
usbc ftwod_dt4y                           3t.6      2S.0      04 t      0 SL 4    13       13.9        1.2       -         -        -
F:L=a=!i                                 -34.1     tO.7      48.5      43.2    -32.4      -24.5     -57.2        49.7    -18.2    -2.7
.'-e ue of eRo   U   s                  .9.4  nn.            7.5     -0.1      -LO       -7.8       -3.2     -9.5      4.0       46.4
Pvams 31 Y7.2                                   19.8     23.2      37.7      16.5       e.2        9.3        -        -:        -
-17.5    -.5.7    -27.7    -17.8    -27.5        -14.0     -12.       -9.3      4.0      4.4
Ope0a      w eno &=S   ouue!           -301,       6.6               tL.0  45.1    -3.0  -..0      -%.0      -0.2      -22.   -1V.3
ftyus smu  (mdas  5             )       -3.6        -         -        -        5.6      54 A                  -         - .
rln=      VP                                    _         -        -         -        20.5      28.5            -              -
0wtust acast (ia        of GM
VACI30SJC goa  eOffL  = a            -U.3      -1.0.Z     4.6       .7.9                -7.2      4.2       4.3      3.4        3.9
tctZd   p FM o° fLo  tluaiuW          4.1       -.3       -4       -2.7      -3.7      -1.9       -1.3     -0.5       0.2       0.
la=Nip  coc (Wa)                       3.0    390.0        394.1    45.3    389.2       364.7      354.0    314.0    354.0    354.0
beC  1.1s                                 -         _         -       8.7       8.7       2.9       28.6      20.4      2.9      5A.2
&kw.-usz  Mu pav1d by du  _ Jma5ga. amUsz aid stt seatin  aiA vmjacVSn.
I/ DaM tmy we ame u  ama of fmIag.
!i uchAas (b oadW*AL    torn Taas aid Peale Cls;   a  debt ca ncSm swff  la 139/V
'V  Thckas 43ueao   sm(  ft  w ai Ut 51r.
rI twkoks das ab tsaw)waAL   qspasu  ftor che Psal CLub.



- 45 -
Mot 4
MEMAIQ AND WmEa ti  of INS pBM                 sonE DI
Sttus of World Senk Oo.ratloe  Ia keamI
A. Statmennt 9 Seek Lo-mns en rDA  Credits t  et Mw 1. 1991
* I ns .s,et..t
(low ceaellotion)
Cret No.         FLI I Yr       Ugerg*,    £PUn                              Rak          a
20 Loans end 4C Credits benv                                               19.U3      472.18
been cloned
Of whicb SECAL*, SAL* and Prog. Loans
CUs4-M             1981          SENEGAL   SAL                                          U."M
CA906-             1986          SENEGAL     SAL It                                     44.10            .0
C1656S4S8           1986         SENEMGAL     SAL Ut                                    29.06           9.
CNS270TS-S          198?         SENEQAL      SAL tIt                                   40.15           9.06
C14020-M            10t?         SENEGAL      SAL Ilt                                   45.01           9.10
ClUl21-SEN          1989         SENEGAL      SAL Ul                                     5.69          i.ll
C206914EN           19ow         SENEGAL      SAL tV                                     4.40           9.06
L1 -S               19861        SENEGAL      SAL.                           1 
Subtotal                                                                     18.781    159.919          9.06
CKSIW-S9            1s"          SENEGAL      Rural Halth                               15.01           1.69
C149SE-             1984         SENEGAL      Eastern Sonop  Igoes                      1O.U6            .42
C14S901-SE          1904         SEIEGAL      Dakar Pert 121                             2.ff           9.
C1564-SEN           195          SENEGAL      Watet Supply KK                           24.11           9.6U
CIfTWI-             1986         SENEGAL      Energ  Sector Rehab.                      19.06           t.CS
C17149-             198"         SENEGAL      Telecom It                                1T."           1s."
C1t-SSl             1067         SENEGAL      Pr1.ry Edc. 0e.                           12."             *.45
ClS(-SUI S9                      SEIEGAL       Priputiont IV                            33.65          168.
CI88W-SEN           1986         SENEGAL      Knd11 Se.                                  806             .57
C18840-SEN          1998         SENEGAL        lopel Mousn 0l                          46.06          31.12
C*10-SE             1961 6m      SENGAL                                                 17.06          11.42
C199215-1 1199                   SENEGA       Smll Rural pa. SS                          6.1           l1.U
C29759-SEI          1990         SENEGAL      Public Work end Employment                29.11           S.M2
CIIII-SE(           19w         SENEGAL       BanklasmF"anol 6                          4S60           1S.7
C20900-Mi(s         1906         SNEUAL       SAL NV                                    4.40           49.09
CIISTO-S            1099         SENEAL       AG Rseerob SS                             16.69          10.49
C115-S              1990         SENEGAL      AG Service                                17.19          14.5?
c26-                1991         SEAAL        SAL KY                                     7.1u           0."
Totl numer Credits * 1t                                                                440.54         347.19
29 L_am  clee 
All olosod for SENEGAL
Totea  I n er Lan. a 9
TOTAL0.                                                                     189.3      12.97
Of which repaid                                                           EalE       0124
TOTAL held b7 Sank & IDA                                                     .49          .
Aount sold                        S.
of whiob repld                  6.56
OTAL udibre                                                                                         U
s   total ApPr                  and Outtanding balanc  represent both aclve an  InactiWe LOa  en Crdite.
(S)  IndlgatL M               and Credits.
TU. Iet Approved end Bsnk Repepusnt are blstorisl Value, ell othoer era mpket value.



- 46 -
P*- 4 of 4
. Statm   eft ofC INS rOu  (a of March 1J. lSfl
Ftieal Veer           Ofbihor Tlac                 ot f   1_                         -a
19?             S"16t Induutrelelit    F rtiillav Plat                  2.46    1.01          8.46
d*Enmrale du 544oa
m2              so S36981               VYg_tbl- Exrt                    -        6.64         6.64
174             SO?TSEIT                D.ovIeNot rFnan_ Co.             -         .U 8.4
196g            Banq  de I ltabi tat     YOy a Capital larist            -        6.46         4.4
du S arashol
192             Industries Chlaiquea    F rtills*r Pllot                 26.06    -           26.06
do 66a 1
1964           ^African Seaood          Fish Proceing Plant              8. 2    O.94         4.28
-WA-s4AFRrC            PrInt Manufacturlng               8.26                 8.2"6W021
1  'CblIu              Fortli    Plants                         6.15        12.16
16              U:FRICAIR               Fishing                          8.45                  8.43
12T1OtalGe    Cinitaante                                                 52.S9    f4m         56.18
Low C.esiteati'm, ter.inatr .EoS re      r_syntan  oal"                  82.97    9           86.16
Total Commitment   ld by ZFC                                             19.42     1.56       f.9l
-Unlthuraad                                                         1.5      06.26       1.910"I



ItRUUV4Ut  D_   tStNt' AL                                           *§t0- < .65  7           S   *
t fIPPl.tofuL D. |skt . thlo IRl
*  *. Q.J~ .                                 - 47 -                   ~':fi 7Anna   II7
MINISTERS
DE LtE OUIPEMENT, DES TRANSPORTS                                             I)ak     k      2  1   J.CI!'J ;i              I it
Er DU LOGEMENT"-
..... ~ ~          ~          ~         ~         .   .A
Cr  I .zjN a     dlu  Cott  rnc:1utc  k- 2    R.t,. list . itiwdf$iflf.   .  j 
.,   *.1. *g ;   I   et
I   olawgjt.na:  d:ke  vr,us  Lr   ettre,   ;Int rt.!   It-r..st.    [ At iq;.; GM ).1c
~~ I    ~    eur  de'~~~ I a                t  -s*t cl.roA j:('.j   dcr:  (
I    rtpt:"'.e.nt;lnts  de      0A  nqii  14ond a l.f..   ptX  j.it  fi t :;aft,~ .iuq.:i;::t*L.
Ow)ucut'n   Cadre  (ku  I'u.l    tiqzc  I t,toiuu  i:'. tif  -i   .1t.ti.rc   i  Vol I .1a;  tit
Di)vc   opprmcric   ei  datet  1u     Pbe-   19t3n
~. ~~I t(,j.'  C)Li  It:  pe~ur'(1  Ci.OttF nctI    l ¶"  1 >(~     .Rn.Liti" n dvec  Sili'    i
f t'f1rifLt , A:C tj  IC   dt        e 1' r r 1i+  Cti rw:nnt  1.  le . esL vc tif;en    u    Gi-!t rJr. I
*l,t+ .t:oetr            tJ;It[^3zrf:r^|lse.l t'rjtt .ittsrle :
lJ:vtlppc sc    L i e nl dae d Iu A 29etucnr: Ie        '
(,uorlp_l des rtAsote de     1'V1 i'i,T       (n'rXt   sS   .Ihrtz.-.v;z 
A  ct:L e{fft.  j'filmekis  t6capituItvr brJ1  votkente (faw   jt
t,.I.L.:IIIetI  t.i -je8ireL  1. olttjeeti 1ri *le: rourt' pLL)'jL.r!JtIII i' e jIsnJe*1'Itv.:. e; 
Ia" r ;.t. t1t.i (Ii .llt.Jz tUt s: ddri Ie a;z .A ttet'.;x.t: t$" tl'aa'a.s)wr: , i .I& 9tit
i.' : I}    q'-.' .c (C.uivcrf.: r   :ren  ,     Int   . t t II   jt 'I  t :ml I I
vevillez. afr6er, Mohoiteu*t le  I'reA-. i evit.,  aitsmurar(e  tle n-t
ha:ett: CNei ii6t*nti oreAC.A
.     _



- 48 -
Annex IIa
Page 2 of 18
GOUVRNERMENT DE LA RtPURLIQUE DU StNtgAL
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE GENERALE DANS LE SECTEUR DES TRANSPORTS
1.   EVOLUTION RECENTE DE L'ECONOMIE SENEGALAISE
Depuis 1'adoption du Programue d'Ajuatement Economique et Financier
* Moyen et Long Termes (PAML, 1985-92), le Senegal a introduit une soie de
mesures visant a stabiliser so situation financire, maoliorer io
mobilisation et l'allocation de sea ressources, lib;raliser sa politique de
comerce et des prix, et securiser lea groupes de faibles revenus.  Ces
mesures, en combinaison avec des conditions climatiques favorables, out
sugmente le taux de croissance du P1B, historiquement de 2.5, a 4.32 par an
sur la periode 1984-88, donc superieure au taux de croissance de la
population (2.9S par an).
Cependant,  la situation fiscal. de l'Etat reste fragiles   les
troubles resultant du conflit avec la Nauritanle en 1989, lis a ume
situation economique faible ourent pour r;sultat une diminution des revenue
de l'Etat de 52 comparee a l'sanne 1988. 1s ne representent qu'un faible
taux (13.4)2 du P1B, ot lo pays depond toujour. de l'alde otarieure pour
couvrir lea dopenses courantes de l'Etat, y inclus le service de is dette et
le psiement des arrires sur une dette cuuuloe de 3.3 maIliards de dollars,
equivalent ; deux tiers du PIS. La poursulto du programe de stabilisation
et de croisssnce economique donc s'impose.
2.   PLAN DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Le Gouvernement *'aot efforco d'aborder simultanw_nt lea probli_ s
fondamentaux de dtvelopp_ment du pays sinst que lea problomes structurels de
l'economle. Lo Gouvern_ment a d&fini les grandes lignes de sa strat6gio de
doveloppement dans le PAHL dont l'objectif essentiol est de conellier le
r&tabliasoment des *quulibres financiers *vec la promotion de la crolssance.
Ss roalisation s'apputo sur lo mise en place de mesures d'lacitation ; la
production at ; l'emplol, en particulier dans lea secteuro de l'industrie et
de l'agriculture et sur une politique financi&er rigourouse. C'est ainsi quo
lo Gouvernement a ml en place lea instruments do politlque ;conomique
proptas a assurer une nouvelle dynamique ; des sectours tole que
l'agriculture ou l'industrie.
Lee objectifs visis consistent en une red;finition du role de l'Etat
pour favoriser 1 promotLon de l'initiative individuelle et priv&e, le
disengagement de l'Etat des activit;s de production, 1. restructuration du
secteur para-public, l'assainissement de la gestion des ressources publiques,
l'abaiseement  des  barri&res  protectionnistes  et  l'introduction  de  Is
concurronfo.



- 49 -
Annex ira
PaSe 3 of 18
3.   STRATEGIE DU SECTEUR DES TRANSPORTS
Los resultats obtenus dans la misa on oeuvre de la politique
d'ajustement ont confort- le Gouvernement dans so volont; de poursuivre la
relance de l'aconomie tout on consolidant les acquis au plan financier et en
minimisant le cout social des mesures mises en oeuvre.
Dens co cadre, la dafinition d'une strategie adequate en matiare
de transports est aujourd'hui une nocossito vitale * cette etape du processus
de relance.   En effet avec la mise on place d'un systemo economique plus
concurrentiel, i, s'avare desormais imporieux do mieux $;rer l'ensemble des
factours utilises dtns notre systemo do production, et le transport so revele
etre parmi les plus importants pour les entreprises.   Par ses multiples
fonctions, il sous-tend toutes les activit;s economiques et sociale.l il
intervient ainsi en amont et en oval des productions agricoles et
industrielles, 11 est le support des projets touristiques et participe
directement a l'amelioration do la balance des paiements. Ss contribution a
la Production Interieure Brute (P.1.B.E.) oat estimee 8 82 par an au cours de
la periode 1988-1991 avec une croissance annuelle de 3,62 au mem. rythme que
le Produit Interieur Brut (P.I.B.). L'importance do co secteur ne pouvait
done pas echapper aux pouvoirs publics. C'est pourquoi des efforts louables
ont d4ja ete raslisas:
-    sur le plan des transports de surface, l'organisation des transports
urbains at Interurbains ainsi que la rehabilitation deos transports
terroviaLres ont permis do mettro en place des structures adaptees on
vue de le satisfaction des besomns de deplacement des blens at des
personnes, en particulier le transport de phosphates doetLne a
l'exportation d'une part, et l'acheminement d'uno pertle importante des
importations et exportations du Mall d'autre partg
-    le resoau routier quant a lui supports environ 902 des transports
m&rchandises non mmniraliers, et 992 du transport voyagour;
-    sur le plan des transports a impact ponctuel, le SiaieSl eat a la fols
une lmportant. escalo maritime et un carrefour des routes serlennes,
grace precisement a ses excellentes infrastructures portualres et
aeroportualrost
-    dan. leos transports maritimes clest par la Soclit; N^tLon&Ie du Port
Autonome do Dakar quo transitent plus de 902 du cownerce International
du Senegal et une part importanto des importations malLennos;
-    pour les transports airiens, l'caroport do Dakar-Yoff sort le trafic
international, et un riseau de seLze aeroports ouverts ; la circulation
aerienne publique ont pernmis de desenclaver toutes les rigions du pays
et de dessorvir les principales zones tourisatiques.
Afin de compliter at d'actuallse les objectLf. du secteur des
transports, le Gouvernoment a engag; une raflexlon qui a permis do pr;clser
ia  los princLpos qul l'ont gutie pour    realisatlon des actions ontreprises
dans co sectour.   L'ononce  do ces prLnclpos tient compto du degr; de



- 50 -
Anmex rra
Page 4 of 18
realisation des objectifs globaux et sectoriels, mais aussi des progrewmes et
projets destines a maintenir et *ccroitre les performances du secteur, et
consolider Los acquis tout en satisfaisant la demand. nouvelle.
Cos principes sont lea suivants:
a)   Rnforcement  des lnstitutions sectorielles. et promotion du secteur
privi aui reposant concratement surs
-    une redefinition des missions de services publics devolues a ces
institutions, et leur renforcement en matire de planification des
investissesments et de capacite de gestion;
-    une restructuration des entreprises parapubliques du secteur en vue
de leur assurer une autonomie de gestion de type prive;
-    l'encouragement du secteur prive a intervenir de plus en plus
fortement dans des sous-secteurs oa l'intervention du secteur
public reste encore importante, notammnt leur participation
croissante aux activites d'entretien routier.
b)   La reconnaissance du caractere orioritaire de l'entretien ot de la
r6habilitation des infrastructures routieres et ferrovlaires, et des
installations portuaires et asroportuaires afin de preserver le capital
dtja investi, de conserver et renforcer le capacite de l'offre de
transport et lui assurer une plus grande productivite.
c)   La reconnaissance d'une comi;6entariti entre modes de transports qui
necessite une amnelioration de la planification et de la coordination des
transports de manire a reduire le desequilibre existant entre les
divers modes, tout en tenant compte des moyens disponibles et des
criteres de rentabilite economique.
d)   L'amalioration du niveau de s&curite our les routes, les ports, les
seroports, et la voie ferree.
e)   Le parachavement du desenclavement des regions peripheriques.
f)   Le developpement du trafic de voisinage.
g)   La creation de liaisons routieres permanentes avec les pays limitrophes
lorsqu'elles sont iconomiquement justifiies.
h) Le soution des productions agricoles Industrielles, mini4ers et des
projets touristiques.
i)   Pour les transports urbalits, la reconnaissance de la priorite i accorder
aux transports collectifes, notamment en site propre (vole ferree,
couloirs reservis).
j)   Le dtveloppement de la ftomation et du recyclage professionnels.



- 51 -
Annlex II&
Page 5 of 18
k)   La contribution du secteur i la politique de relance de lV&conomai  et
au transfert de technologie.
4.   PROGRAMME D'ACTIONS VISANT A CONCRETISER CETTE STRATEGIEK
a)   Actions d6ii prisest
Dans le cadre de 18 politique de lib&ralisation, l. Gouvornement a d4j;
entrepris les reformes institutionnelles nicessalres au disengagement
de l'Etat, i la promotion de 1'initiative priv&e, ot i le red&flnitLon
des relations entre l'Etat et lesE1310'Socita6ionales du Secteurt
-    le renforcement des institutions et do la capscite de gestion des
administrations et entreprises parapubllques en charge du secteur
a daj& commence en particuller par la transformation en Sociltes
NatLonales de la RCFS (Regle des Chemins de Fer Sonegalsis), et du
PAD (Port Autonome de Dakar);
-    l'elaboration et la signature de Contrats-Plan entre la SZCS, la
SONAPAD, la SONATRA (Air Senegal) et l'Etat;
-    le Gouvernement a consentL des efforts financiers Importants en
consacrant au financement de I'2ntretien routler des ressources
adequates provenant ie Budget General de 1'Etat;
-    le Gouvernemont a onfin presente une stratsgie globale pour le
sectour, et un programme d'investisosment le soutenant ' la reunion
des Baillours de Fonds tenue i Dakar en mal 1989. Le Gouvernement
confirme son lntention de limiter son programme d'investiesement
dans le sectour a colul qul a ete approuve au cours do cette
reunion.  L'eventuelle inclusLon d'investlssements additionnels
sera consideree apras concertation avec l'IDA et en accord avec i.e
stipulatLons   roglssant  l'Lnclusion  de  projets  aux  Plans
d'Investissement Publics trionnaux gllssants, etablis annuellement.
b) Actions envisatees
Af in de servir do support ef fLace su programme d'Lnvestissements prevu dans
ce projet, le Gouvernement envisage de mettre en oeuvre tras rapi.ement les
mesures suivantess
1.   Sous-secteur routier (infrastructures et transports routiers)
-    etablir   annuellement   des   programmes   triennaux   glissants
d'investissements et d'entretLen;
-    avoir pour tout projet d'lnfrastructure routlere propose pour
Inclusion aU programme d'LnveetLseement un taux de rentabillto
economique (TRE) de 122;
-    consacrer 802 des depenses a l'entretlen routler at au renforcement
dos chaussies;



- 52 -
Pags 6 of 18
r;server 202 des depenses totales auz investisoments;
*ugmenter  sensiblement  lee  rossources  internes  du  budget
d'entrotien routier (Fonds Rout4er) en aedquation avec le programe
d'entretien et do rehabilitation et on fonction does possibilitis
financilres de l'economie nationale;
- tablir des mecanismes et procedures administratives requises pour
un fonctionnement correct du Fonds RoutLer;
oxecuter leas travaux d'assistance *ux collectivit6s publiques par
une brigade sp&ciale et limiter lea deponses a CFAF 200 million par
an;
proceder progressivement au dtsengagement do l'Etat en matiere de
prestationsI9511Abvices et d9exicution de travaux, au profit du
secteur prive;
faire evoluer progressivement l  rolo do la Direction des Travaux
Publics (DTP) dans un sens normatif, do conception et de controle;
former lo personnel d'encadroment en matiere de prograumation et
de contrale at perfectionner colut d'oexcution dens la limit. de
I'effectif requis pour les travaux on rigie;
roaliser progressivemant l'ontretion courent   l'eantreprise jusqu'a
atteindre 752 en valour dos budgets d'entretlen courant de la
quatriemo annie du programs. Le Plan 4'Action pour l'Entretion
RoutLer qui reoumo toutos los mosures ; prendre on vue d'atteindre
los objectifa du PAST en mati;re d'Intretien routier, eat on Annexe
A.
-    restructurer at moderniser la Direction des Transports Terrestres
pour luS permettre de faire face a soe multiples fonctionst
-    reglementer et coordonner le systeme de tarification;
-    elaborer un programs d'ections dans le domains do la sciarit&
routSo4reo
-    introduiro le code do la route done le program. deos ecoles;
-    .ensibiliser les usagers aux problemes do la securLt'i;
-    mieux connaltre at suivre les accidents de circulation;
-    poursuivre des negociations t'accords rigionaux de coopfration pour
faciliter 1'intigration socio-oconomique sous-r8gionalet
-    hahmoniser les legislations routlires on vue de favoriser les
conditions de circulation des vehicules;



- 53 -
Anmex Its
Page 7 of 18
-    riglementer les conditions d'acc;s ; la profession do tranwporteurs
par la mise en placo d'un systeme d'aptitutde dont lo. modalites
restent 8 d4ifinir
-    proceder  au  perfectionnemont  et  au  recyclage  des  artisan
transporteurs et des, m.. iteurs d'Auto-Ecoloe
-    faciliter l'acces au crtdit Lux transporteurs pour leur p.rmettre
de renouvolor lour mateiril en vue du maintien do l'offre do
transport 8 un niveau acceptable du point do vue quantitatif et
qualitatif;
-    faciliter les migrations alternatives quotidiennos entre domicile
et lieu de travail;
-    Organiser et structuror los tiffarents mod4e  do transport urbain
(bus SOTRAC, Car rapidesO, train de banliueu) en vue d'opttmiser
la fluidit& du trafic a Dakar et minimiser lea couts dVoperation
et do transports.
2.   Sous-Secteur Ferroviairg
-    &laborer et inettre en place un statut unique du personnel do la
SNCS on vue de la rationalisat n des offectfss
-    appliquor le contrat-plan avec l'Etat;
3    ronforcer la fonction comerciale  au sein do Is societel
-    croer un syst=em  de comptabiliti analytique;
-    rechercher loe possibilitis d'accroissement du trafic.
3.   Sous-Secteur Maritime
-    finaliser l'adoption des textes concernant le sous-secteur on ogard
a son evolution et simplifier les proc'edures douanlores en vue
d'encourager le transbordeaent  le trassit international et le
trafic porte ; porte;
-    doter do moyens adequats l'armement national afin do le rondre
cr6dible en vue de l'enlevement do la totalit& des drolts de traflc
on marchandises gonerales et de son intorvention our 1e transport
des vracs (solides et liquid.s);
-    s'assurer que les services aUx navires sont fournis dans lUs
conditions do competitivite at d'efficacite comparables aux noxmes
lnternationalos.
-    mettre on place des structures adapteos pour la consignation des
navires et la ripartition des cargaisone do fa;on a maximiser le
rapport cout-officacite pour l'usagerg



- 54 -
Annex UI.
Page 8 of 18
assurer la vocation naturolle du Port AutonOme do Dakar de port do
groupement et d';clatement do is sous-reigon, taut en ce qu$
c*ncerno Le trafic L conteneurs' que pour lea autres types de traf$c
(ce'rales, etc.), cela par la mis en oeuvre du plan d'sctions du
port. L'achavement de as restructuration en le dotant de moyens
materiels et humains adequats pour lui permettre do faire fa ce a
la concurrence des autres ports de 1 sous-region;
redifinir is vocation des ports secondaires afin de ditermuine  lea
services qu'lils peuvent offrir au transport national dans, des
conditions d'efficacite et de couts compititife par rapport aux
trsnsports terrestres;
faire une etude globale permettant de definr  lo meilleur choix des
investissements d'organisation et de gestion de ces portsg
moderni4er et structurer la Direction de la Marine Marchande.
4.   Sous-Secteur Aerion
maintenir et atumliorer le nivesu de s&reto convenable pour le
trafic reru sur chacun des aeroports du Senegall
-    aminliorer 18 capacite de l'offre do transports de passagers et de
fret pour aider le developpoment des exportat ions de produits
maraichers et rentabiliser lea riceptifs touristiques;
-    respecter  lea  ongagements  internationaux du S0nigsl pour  le
maintion et l'amiulioration du niveau de securite du systeime de
navigation aerienne;
-    renforcer lea mesures de lutte contre le terrorismo et le traflc
de droguel
examiner is modernisation de is flotte d'Air Senegal pour lut
permettre de faire face a la concurrence, prendre une part plus
importante du trafic voisinage en respectant des crIt4es de
rentabilite oconomique, et lul fournir lea moyens adiquats pour lui
assurer un participation plus large Bux activit&s d'essistance en
escale des vols charters notanment;
-    soutenir eff icacement la compagnie lnternatlonal. AIR AFRIQUE dans
ses actions d'assainissement financi;re et do ge8tlon.



- 55 -
Annex I1s
Pag. 9 of 18
PLAN D'ACTION POOR L'ENTRETIE ROUTZIE
Ce plan d'action vise a identifier et prograwer toutes lee mosures a prondre
en vue d'attelndre ls objectife que le projet d'ajustement sectoriol des
transports s'est assigne dans le cadre spocifiquo de la politique d'entretien
routier adoptee par le Gouvernenent et presentee aux bailleurs do fonds lore
do la table ronde tenue 8 Dakar le ;0-12 mai 1989.
Introduction
Le reseau routior du Sonegal comprend onviron 14,000 km de routes cl"esoos
dont 4000 km bitumees et 8000 km do routes on terre moderne et de pistes
amiliorees. Dans l cadre de la pr&paration du PAST, l9obj.ctif retenu en
matilre d'entrotion ost do procedor au renforcement d'environ 860 km de
routes bitumies,  au rosurfarago do 2065 km de routes bitumoes et au
rochargement de 1300 km do routes en terre, at ; l'ontrotion courant
d'environ 9000 km de routes.
Oblectifs
Les objoctifs du plan d'action par l'entrotien routior sonts
(a) RedefLnir les attributions et reorganiser les institutions chargoes
do ia miss en oeuvro de la politique routeire;
(b) Amilioror ia planification de I'entretlen routier;
(c) Amfiliorer 1l gestion du r;seau coutior;
(d) kmollorer la progreumation does op;rations d'entretlen routier;
(a)  Amellorer loe eathodes at conditions d9exicution des progr_mse
d'ontretien routlerg
(f)  Assurer le financamnt adequat do lentretien courant du roseou
prioritair. dtfini; at
(8) Dfinitr l'assietanco technique n;cessaire pour menor ; bil. le
prograMe.
1.   Pour  rod_finir  lga ttributiggg  ds  -institution   chara&es  de
1lelab@ration et do la mso en oouvro d1* o_litau  rgutiuir*
Msttre on vigueur avant 1. lor octobro 1991 tous les totne
reglomentaires nocessaires ; 1 diso an place des services reeponsabloe
do ltolaboration et de mAs. en oeuvrG de la politique routi;ro au *ln
du Ministre do l'Equipement.
-    Creation du Bureau do gestion routlre au sein de la DTP.



- 56 -
Annex I1s
Page 10 of I8
-    Difinition des attributions des services relevant de 1 DTP.
- D'ttermination does attcibutions do la Collule do Coordination du
PAST au soin de I* DTP.
-    Df inition d'une politique de gestion du personnel (Oct. 31, 1991).
2.   PoUr ameliorer ia ulanification de l'entretien routter. le Gouvernement
s ' enzaLe a:
Crier au sein de le Direction dos TP uin Bureau de Gestion Routiare quL
permottra d'atablir en liaison avoc le CSUEQs
-    Los progrommes d'entrotlen pirLodLque des rout.s bitumies, des
routes on terro, des ouvrages d'art situas sur le reseau classe
falsant  l'objet d'un entretlen permanent  salon des crlteres
d'evaluation oconomique figurant aU Tableau C el-Joint;
-    Les programes des rkaabilitatione rcutiares necessaires; at
-    Le programs do construction do routes neuvos susceptibles de
remplir les conditlons de rentabllte iconc=Lque rouises.
3.  Pour amagorer Is &est on dft raseou routler. le Couverne.lnt sisnaao ;s
Craer pour lo 31 octobre 1991 au nlveau le la Dlrectlon des Travaux
Publies une Banque de donnees des matrlcules routiers et un LaventaLre
des ouwrages d'art qul seront tenus ; jour pour l'exploitatLon des
rapports monsuels fournis par les services rigionaux does Travaux Publics
(SRTP).
4.   Pour amiliorer la irosrganetion des oyiratons  d'OntLstlen routler. le
Gouvernoment a'entate ai
4.1 Etablir das le ler juillet 1991 le projet do budget d'ontretlen routler
pour l'ann&e fiscal. 1992, sous ia forms d'un Contrat Programi
d'Entretien Routior por lequel l'Et*t Sengsaleis approuve en mime temp.
quo le montant des ressources allouies * l'enteotieu routler lea actions
spicsfiques prograrmmes our lea dLff;tents axes routLers en adoquatIon
avec la budget *lloui;
4.2. Appliquer les priorit's suLvantes pour lea ctions d'entretLen courant
a saner s premiere prioriti--poLnt ; tep. our routes bitusies en
excellent et bon stat, et nottoyage/curage ourages *t foss.., etc. our
la totaltit  du rsiau-s Aeuise priorite--point ; temp  I la late;rta
sur le r'seau bltum&  en mauvais at tres wauvais etat; troLsti.
priorfti--reprofIlage l&ger et lourd our It ressau des routes on terre
amllior;oes quattlrim et cinqui&me prlorit-4-signal1atIon horisontale
sur routes bLtumeas et recharg_ment partlel des routes en terro.
4.3  Commencor die l  31 octobre 1991 * recuillifr au niveau du Bureau de
GstLon RoutiLr. loe inormatIon. fourneos par les rapportt mensuels



- 57 -
Annox II-
Page 11 of 18
d'activitt  des setvices regionaus des Travawux Publics, levolution des
prix do revient des travaux d'entret$en en fonction des conditions
locales, do la mithode d'execution (rogie ou entrepriso)l
4.4  Budgetiser chsque annee i partir de 1991 un program. de comptago do
trafic, do pesage et d'enquetes de circulation.
S.   Pour amenliorer les methodes et conditions d'execution des oroztrames
d'entretien routier. le Gouvernoment 8'enzats as
5.1  Realiser la totalite du prograe d'entretien piriodique ; I'entreprise
privee des la premiere annio du programs.
Rgaliser ; l'entreprise privie, au moins 202 des depenses d'entrotien
routier au cours de la premilre annie du programme, 50S au cours de la
douxlime annie, 65t au cours do le troisiome anneo et 752 su cours de
la quatrilme ann;e. Los resultats do cheque anoio fiscale seront rovus
conjointement avec l'IDA comme conditions do libirstion des tranches.
5.2  Cetta privatisation  progressive  des sctivltes  d'entretien  routier
suppose l'utilisation croiosante de petites ot moyennes entreprises
locales pour lesquelles LI est nicessaire d'etsblir des procedures
s1mplifioes de passation, d'approbation et de geostion des marchos.
Pour ce faire, l Gouvernement s'ongsge as
(a) Nettre on application avant le ler Julliet 1991 les textes
ri eImentalre8 portant identification des entreprises susceptibles
de repondre aux crlteros do participation au programe de travatux.
(b) Crier au soin do la Direction does TP (BERM) uan bureau d'assistance
sux petiteo  et moyennes entreprises de travaut publics en vue do
faclliter lours Interventions dns l'entretion routier.
(c)  Adopter avant l 31 dtcembre 1991 des cahiers do charges techniques
types par ltexe'ution des travaux det
-    polit ; temps
-    dibroussaillage
-    ourage do foss4e
-    construction ou r;paratLon do petite ouvregoe d'art *t pose
do buses
-    construction do radiers.
(d)  Adoptor des cahler  deo charges administrativoe  pr;cisent  lea
facilitos accordtes  ceos entroprises en vue d lour assurer la
tr;sorerie et l'oquipement nvcessairo ; la bonne execution des
traveux soit part



- 58 -
Annex II&
Page 12 of 18
-    does modalitis de palements spiecfiques (avances sur materiaux
ou matiriels), patements accelires des prestations ralisese,
ou par:
-    le cautionnement  et  le nantissement  des marches  aupres
d'organismes bancsires.
(e)  Etablir des procedures simplif lies relatives aux marchas de travaux
d'entretion routier dtun montant inffrieur ou egal a CFAF 100
millions visant a proceder a l'ouverture, et a i'avaluation des
offres dans un delai do 15 jours suivant la date d'ouverture des
offres. L'approbation du contrat suivra  gasleuent une procedure
accaliree permettant le signature du marcha au plus 15 jours apres
I'ecceptation des recomandationo du rapport d'avaluation.
6.  Assurer le financement adeauate de 1'entretion courant et goriodioue du
reseau
La wise en oeuvre officace d'un prograume d'entretien courant repose
ossentiellement sur la disponibilite en temps opportun des ressources
financi;res adequates.
Dana le but d'assurer le financament adequat du progrmume d0entretlen
courant prioritaire et d'assurer la disponibilit' des rossources ainsi
allouiees le Gouvernement sengage ; affecteor au budget d'entretlen
routier (Fonds Routior) leo montants minimal annuels suivante:
1991192        5 millierds de FCFA
1992193        6 milliards de FCFA
1993194        6 milliards de FCFA
1994195        6 milliards do FCFA
1995/96        6 milliards do FCPA
Le Couvernement s'engage par silleurs ; garantir 18 disponibilita
effective de coo fonds en lnstituant une auteanomie rEello de
fonctionnement du Fonds Routior. Les sommes aInsi. allouees seront
versees par tranches convenues a levance ontre le Ministore des
Finances et le Minetatro de l'Equipement done un compte spocial ouvert
dzss une Banque Counerclle au nom du Ministar. de l'Equipement qui sere
rosponsable de Is gestion autonomo do ces credits. La also on place de
ce mcsnisme par arrete du Ministre do l'Econolue ot des Finances
contietuers uno condition prealablo i Is mise en vigueur du Cr;dit, ot
; l libiration d. la prmiS;re trenche de la composants ajustement du
Credit.
Le maintion do cotte disposition pendant tout. l dur;e du projet sere
une condition de iLb;ration do trancho pour lea deux ann;es suivantes
et une condition de d'ecassemont do la Composante Routiere du PAST pour
les deux dernIoros annees.



- 59 -
Annex IIe
Page 13 of 18
7.   Definir l'assistance technicue necessaire your 1'execution du Rrostrame
7.1  Deux volets d'assistance technique oat ete incorpores dans le projet.
L'un est centre sur la DTP i'eutre sur la DTT. Doaw leo deux cos LI
s'agit d'eider i ia modernisation des institutions et d'appuyer dans ls
mise en oeuvre de 1 nouvelle strategie.
7.2 L'assistance technique augr;s de la DTP a pour objectif do (i) facillter
l'implsntation  de  ie  nouvelle  politique  d'entretion,  (iU)  de
rationaliser les prises do decision et 1I geetion de l'entretien routier
par le creation d'un Bureau de Gestion Routilro (BOR), et (iiL) de
revitaliser  en  le  reorientant  le  Centre  de  Formation  et  de
Perfectionnement. Cette triple assistance technique aupros du BERM,
supres de 1  DPT, aupr;s du CPTP pourrait etre assuroo par un seul
prestataire de service.
7.3  Les tschos de i'assistance technicue au 9ERM seoant (i) assister le BERM
et lea SRTPs dans la programation et l'exicution de 3.entretien
routier, (ii) ronforcor le BERM en mati;ro de passation do marchis a
passer au secteur privo pour l'entretion p&riodique et courant, (ifi)
contraler l'execution at is gestion des marches en sidant los SRTPs et
le BERM & mettre au point lea proc&dures de controle, evaluer leos
resultats des premiers contrats et ; realiser lea bilans anuels, et
(iv) ronforcer ia DM i optimiser at g6rer son parc.
7.4  La gestion du raseau routler oxalr  une connaissance quantifi&e et
actualisee des parametres de traflu et d'infrsstructure. On bureau de
gestion routilre (BOR) sera mis en place pour (i) faciliter la
planification et l'exploitation du r&sesu routier, (it) fournir une
information fliable aux different services, et (111) constituor un outil
de mise a jour des statistiques routiros. Le BGR sore plsco sous
l'autoriti directe du Directeur des TP. Le BGR ti) rassemblera
reguli&rement lea Informations supras des services, (11) assurera le
coheronco ot l'uniti des codes et des prisentations, (iii) veillera i
is qualiti des informations, (iv) elaborere un rapport de synthose
annuel, oet (v) diffuser& l'information. Le BGR etablir. lea liaisons
avec les servlees extorieurs et en particulitr avec la DTT en ce qui
concerne lo pare automobile. Le BERM fournira loa lnformations relatives
a l'entretien ot *u rvseau routier; le DI fournira les informations
relatives aux traveux neufs ot do rochergement, le CEREEQ fournira lea
donnies de base t g&omtzies, constitution des chauss6s, stat visuel uni,
d&flexions, lnventairo des carri&rss. La DEP seta responsable de la
collecte des donnseo  de trafic &conomiques et fiocales, et implantera
progressivement le mod&le MDM.
7.5  Le METL dolt (1) *asurer la miss en place do nouveaux outils do travail
et (11) redUfinir les compoteneoe et qualifications du personnel de
gestion et de supervioion. L'Vssistace  tchnioue -Mr;s  a  CITI
consistera &  i) alder l. CPTP i daveloppor un service pidagoglque
capable do ganarer un processus d9analyse des bosoons et (it) d&volopper
le contenu doe action formatives an planificatton, gattion, et
contrale. Los nouveaux statute duL CIPI qul devraient trto adopt;s avant



- 60 -
Annex II&
Page 14 of 18
1. 31 octobre 1991, refleteront la nouvelle orientation du Centre visant
; participer activement ; la formation et ; i'encadr_o nt des petites
et moyennes entreprises qui seront retenues pour entreprendre des
travaux d'entretien courant.
7.6  L'assistance technigue suDras do la DTT a pour objectif de la moderniser
et de ronforcer une action * long terme en matiare do securlt; routlero.
Les obje#.tifs seront do (i) mettre en place un nouvel organigrameo au
vein de la DTT, (it) micro-tforimatiser la DTT et d'assurer l formation
du personnel, (iiI) elaborer les etudes ot systemes g;nerant les
Informations statistiquos relatives au parc automobilo, aux pormis de
conduire, aiu titres do transports, aus accidents, aux Infractions et,
a implanter ces syst&mes tout on assurant la formation du personnel,
(iv) refondre lea textes concernant le code de Is route ot, ;laborer un
nouveau manuel pour les candidats au permis de condtuire, (v) dafinir et
olaborer lee programes de formation en securit; routiare dee moniteurs,
examinateurs, et do sensibilisation des ocollers ot oloveos
7.7  Le Tabloau A ci-apres ditaille la nature et l  volume d l'assistance
technique aupres do ie DTP et de DTT. I1 s'aglt do 485 porsonne-mols (p-
m) sur une poriods do ttois ; qustre  ns dont 311 p-m pour la DTP (63
2)  et  174  p-m  pour  is  DTT  (372).  Cotto  assltance  technique
a'accompagnera do la fourniture d'aquipoment do bureaux, vihicules,
micro-ordinateurs,  bumps  intigratour,  balances  mobiles  do  pesees
d'essieux, et des frais de fonctionnnment correspondant.
7.8  Pour faire face * as mission le CPTP a 6labor; un plan trionnal (Tableau
8) comportant des investilsomento (39 n do FCFA) doe frals do reperation
do le brigade do formation (59.9 u do FCFA) et des frats de
fonctionnement suppl_entrairos (116 a do FCFA). Seront ;ligiblos a un
financemont  IDA  lea  dopo nse  d'investiosement  relatives  a  ia
rehabilitation des locaux, ; is remise on stat du mat;riel de is brigade
do fomation,  au service do documentation et d'archivage y compris
d'smenagement Interiour des bureaus exisnte,  et lee doponsos de
fonctionnement techniques, &Inai quo los deponsos de rencontros,
seiminaireo, stages o     l'tranger  t d'lindeintis doe  stagisiros ot
instructours.
7.9  La  modernieation  do  Is  DTT  sera  accompagnee  par  des  trovaux
d'-omnagment de locaux de  services contraux et r;gionaux elflibles
; un financement IDA. A Dakar, lea locaux de le bTT seront r'am6nag&o
ot agrandis pour uno d}pesse ostimise ; 15 a de FCPA; an province, ouC ia
situstion differ. d'un %;timent ; l9autre, un  scmo  globalc do 25 a de
FCFA set esetims neceosaire pour smonager lee buroaus devant rec*voir
le micro-ordinatour.
7.10 Los tomes do rifirenc% ot lea plans d'action d;tailll; pour ie mise en
place de l'assistance technique ont ;t; &labor6s en detail lore de la
preparation du projet par de consultants.
7.11 Le Couvornement prondra pour limei des travaux d'aessttance *ux
collectivitis publiquo  son. rapport avcc l'entretien routier un niveau



- 61 -
Palo 35 of la
znnu*l no depassant pa. 200 millions rd FCF. D'autr. part, l1a travaux
4'asslatance aux collectivites publlquos aoront toasl.s .xclusiviment
par une brigade autonome qui sera cr;so au s*in de la OTP.
Tableau A - Ccmiosition d- 19AsBeLtlCe Technigu
No.          Egaute DTP                        ------- (Ann;es) -------
LI_R    IEM
1    Ingenieur/Economisto Chef Mission          3
1    InOnieur Routier Programmation                      3
1   Specialiste en uarches                                1
1   SjiclUlste Gestlon du persoari.l                    113
1   Inginiour ContrUle Travaux                           3
1   K;coanloen Engin                                     3
1   Ingenieur G6otechnicten (CEREEQ)             1
1   Infomnticlen                                 1
I   Consieller Planification Pedagogilqu                          3
1   SpocalLste en progrsmes de formction                         3
1   Expert on Ressources/Moyens dldactique.                       3
1   Expercts ponctuwls                        15112    2112    2112
E      _utont DTP                            -  Rombre
Bump Integrator                             6
Balance Mobile                              3
Micro-ordinat-ur                            3        1       1
V.hiculea Services                          3        3       2
Comptoure Rout ts
Etule DST                                      nn;e
I    ConseIller Organisation at Mithode         3.0
1    ConseLller on EconomiS et StatiatLques    2.0
dee Transports
I    Consoiller Castion du Personnol           10112
1    Sp;ciallt.e s8curit; Rout leo                        2
2     Consollerse on Micro-infomatique          0.5
I    Specialist. Etude Informatique             0.5
I    Spciallst, en Fichiers  d, Tittu
d  Trcansports                            2.0
1    Expert Ponctucl                           40112
Rquilgement OTTNoumbr-
V;hiculs SorvSica                          4
Micro-Ord4instur                           i9
MinI-Otdinateut                             1



62 -
Pag. 16 of 18
Tableau P - Contr do foraIon Pro` onlonn llo  Plan Trifnn l
-Ire nino C nt..rgThtle-ygr , n
RUIRiUQE                      TOTAL         OEVS                                  TAXES      ELISLE
___,_,__   S Zontat   INo                 Montant    IDA
A)  04 ... d'ln,mtlas.nt
1. Oocumentatlon                   O OO oe    40   2      400   39   16 JO 6        80 1N seeOO
2. S.cr6k rlat/orchlvag.          16 ee  00    49  6O  0650   JO  4 666 6            39  4 so 6 M      r
a. A6aomen_t des loc"x            12 e6  m     16   1 200 we   76   * 406 6S        2   2 400 O
4. Achet dtqquIp _t at
eutillII. (Section *6..nu       *666 6a     1Be    I 0so     28    696 sOO       21    as we6
S. ch t d'6oqulpmnt  t out11-
top ( cttion gOnto el]          5665666   60   * 636 m    2J3    660 00          21   6ag9 6
O)  .e.tn dB .at6rlI de Is
ormatIon                           59 9M NO   45 26 9366 6   22  1t 176566 031977t To  o
C) El obIratlon *t lI o*n blace
0p0o1ramm do Mosotion
1. lIffulsion de to docvu_ntetlon    6 60  00         0         es 56   0S"6669     26  1 7650 we
2. Enteeti;  dm  moy n
techniques                      4 66o6 6    280        G0 e o     2t766oo        20    9666oo s
8. Mathlr d'aouve, *oction
e6centoq                        2 7e6 oeo           4a        6 o   1 020 s0      2O    64660 S
4.  atltAr d'aovrw., actton
0"^0 civil                    It 9    J 66t    2 592 565    6   1 77666         29g  2692 me
S. * noontrm s nn e llc                                                                 I 000 eow 01  eoOO U$00e0
S. 1t"Inntre orgnlo Olon,
frW  e 1 * Xe_*w)              toJ SW        0                    9  040 on      o       to N
7. vrmtlor eo"Vo los*                an n 2"60              0   of I°   @ l°   we     °   9°°°we
9  6=    6 116tr aft"             27 me15 n    6f  P        9m SW     0      0 10   6
3. Inm lt6s 8atalairs                m  on    9             0   96   2 7s5 gm       16    we          a
Is. Idinnit6 l stnact.uen
rAglon                         JJWA         J                3    LZL            Lq  "go66
T O  A A L                    814 *   000  8U   9647 600   40 01 10jg            21 461564 a6  169.3
0.,1...                                                                                             7$.6
MnI. t  loeal-                                                                                       68.0
tea..                                                                                                17.9



- 63 -
Annex Ila
Page 17 of 18
Tableau C - Entretien p6riodigue - Critsres d6'valuation 6conomioue/
Periodic Maintenance - Economic Evaluation Criteria
La strat6gie globale en ce qui concerne l'entretien piriodique eat d'aesurer
en moyenne tous les 7 ans:
(a) Pour les routes revOtuess Mi) une couche d'usure en matdrSauz
enrobes pour des TMJ supdrieur& 1000; et (11) un enduit
superficiel pour des TMJ inf6rieurs   1000.
(b)  Pour les routes non-revOtues un rechargement si  le TMJT eat
supsrieur a 50.
A.    ModAle d'Etat RksumO: Entretien P6riodiaue
1.  Route       numero           section
2. DonnOes de Base
Longueur km C ) Largeur chaussee m C ) Largeur accotement m C )
RevAtement existantt
- Age
- Otat t coef. d'uni            DWgradation visuellet
3.    Trafic              V P      T B      Bus      Camions    Total
annee de base t
croissance
4.    Cost dtop4rations           V P       T B      Bus       Camions
Uni avant travaux C )
Uni apres travaux ( )
Uni annee         C )
5.    Rosultats Economipues           Cas de base        Sensibilit0
CoUt invest. (HT) t
rRR               k
6.    Schema dexCcution t         Invitation & la concurrence s
demarrage des travaux i         delai dtexecution



- 64 -
Amnei Its
PAg. 18 of 18
3.    Princiuau  B;ne £ices Ecorgomlaues ; ConoSderor
7*          Los  cholx  _cono_aquso *eront  datermLnis  on  comparnt  loc
dliffrentos options d'cntratin pirLodique on utillsant 1. model. HDK
(Hlghway Design and Kainten.nce). Soul le trafic normal *ora prls *n compt-.
8.          TrafiS. Les donnoeo de volume, compoostion, *volution du trafic
seront fournls. Le taux de crolssance du traftc normal sera drlva do setrles
hictorlques, c dtfaut d'autres parenstros tol quo 1- croisscnce envLse; du
PUS *eront utlSisec. Los coats de fonctionnement dos vehlculys sorout bcos
*ur l  *ous-modolo VOC du HDM et our des meosuros du coefficaent d'ual des
routes existent.s ot cecl i partir de l'annie 2 du progreamo et si possible
avant. La valeur du temes des p-socges des bus ot v&hicules l;gors no sets
pan prlso en compte. Los couts d'lnvestisgements seront conoSderos hore
taxes; loo ;tudoes ot controles soront lnclus dons los coats; aucune valour
r&sidu&ll, no sera consider&e a  1is1sue de 1a dur;c de vlo envlag.o.  Aucun
prix de r;ferenco no sore prlo on compto. Une onlvoe do *onsibilit; sore
£enie par vari*tLon des prlnelpaux parwmetres.



- 65 -
ACTION PROGRAM
ANNEX IIB



R~1uC  eF £NfL
ZAtR  MSM  £.IIISrW NT           E5 PRO--AU          E      Jl -      SROOOINI! D'AJSTW   ffT   DES TRAISPOIM
Action Proarm
ACTION PRWAI                                                         IlPLEWSTAT!ON                    DEADL[NES, DATES,
ComnTs, ETC.
I. mesuana  and aetIS an  n Whch ausreimet. ha. ee tama.ahu
A. _Sofe  ide
fI)    All inwosnto   proPos ls should, hencforth,    t a       Annal public Invesent
minima criterion of 12t to qualify for inclusion in       progrm review with IDA
the Scora  lniestmunt Plan.
(;;)    Ht investmnt eceddn9 USll.l0 millen and tot already       SAL IV, PTII
in the approved Sector Investmnt Plan should be
tadtahen without a prior review of Its jstification
an  agesment with the Assciation.
D. mhaihu Setor
i)    Future Investments on now contruction to be li lted to    Policy Letter ad trular PT?   Is c.. effective as of
203 of the total hgbwa subsctor annual budget.           rmiw.                            MoM and WIll continue  to
be tffective for the wole
projet period.
(Ii)    Incr es  in the share of routine sa;ntenance work         Policy Letter an Tranche         Tranchixg to offet future
carried out by privte contractor. to   t within five  R ele   condItion,                   ward of contracte (not
years.                                                                                    on-oing contract.) under
Investment component.
(;ii)    Incr   in Rod Fun *llocation  so that:                                                     Annual review at agreed
date.
(a)   reutl    ; mintenanm wIll receive about
CFAF 2,C0  million annually (19UW prices) for
the next 5 years, to cower force account costs
and local contractor costs not financed f r
external aid; VW          ou
(b)   eerigdic m          will obtain ab, i
CFAF 2,5SO illion per annm  (t88 prices) for
the next 3 years, asmirng that the totality of
forign costa Is financed fre extrnl eorces;



ACTN PRORAM                                                           IMPLEMENTATIM                     DEADLINES, DATES,
cMM.. I .C.
(iv)    Provision of counterpart funds for strelgtheiwg works      Creit Covnant                    Monitored annual y.
of about CFAF 2,S0 million per annus (1988 prices) for
the  ent S yers.
(v)    Contieaed freeo   on recrultmnt of personnel during the    SAL IV
entiro project period. However, key posts i the
Diretion des transports Torrestros should be filled
(as for as possible by transfer of *taff from the
Fonction Publiqe, or by other mean agreed with the
Association).
(vi)    Limited purchas of nu oquipment for road maintenance                                        Annual Inventory of Publilc
by force ccount (agreed list) and reduction of the                                          works equipment.
equipmnt fleet by scrapping or ee I )ng equipment oldr
than 1D yaar., In uneconomic condition.
(vii)    Establi lkent of a systes of clasIftication of                                              Draft documnt available
contractors before Jun 39, 1990                                                             by April 30, 1990
(Vii;)    Establishaent of stand6rd contracts for routine nd         Condition of Efectlvelnes *nd   Craft docment ovielable
periodic mainenanncend agree with IDA before Juno 30,    First Tranche Releaso            by July 31* 1991
1991.
C. Rs ilza
(I)    Transformation of the 9R9gte' into a 'Socl6t6                                               Done as of Nov. 1, 1989
Nationale  with a unified personl atatue as agred.
(;I)    Conclusions of financil restructurig of SUMS.             Coniition of Effectiveetss end   Septmber 80,1991
Flet Trench Release.
;i;)    A_dhernc to the anmal financial and operating targets    Trano Rele_s Conition.             Annual eview at agreed
agred won,                                                                                 date.
(v)    no nw train serics, or expanilon  of existing train         Contrat Plan                     To be monitored throuh
serviesw to be undertake  unles It can be dmnstrated                                       the verifiable target
In a 3-month trial for froeght-, and 0-month trial for                                     therein.
passe_ger service, that euch Slvices coveor the ful I
avoidablo cost and the dsprsclutlon of the 1ocomotves
Nan  rollin  stock.
(v)    Reach the levl of 2,8  staff within a yer of the           Contract Plan                    Tart date: March 191 .
dae of si9gtom of the IDA Credit Agre n.                                                   To    integrated into the
Contract Plan and
wmotored th.eby.



ACTIN PROWA                                                            ZWLEVENTATXUN                     CADM, DATES.
cans, ETC.
n.   ALtwon    h2  tan         to L  riaL
(1)    A ntlonwide traffic cemt to be corried out 18811#.          Done
(i1)    Peperstion of a draft einlstrativo regultion                Do".
coaering the implication  of the mm to  low on the
cotratin9 pwroces, paymes to contratrs, temporary
-r, ste.
(iiI)    Presettion of a short list of cossltanto for the            D1oe and agreoe  to
rmainin studiesad the suprvision of the pavemnt
strengthening works  lkely to be financed by IDA.
(1w)    Preparation of the f Int year prorm of periodic             Done
maIntenance, identifying road ections trafflic leves,
and costs.
(,)    Presantation of a five yer financial plan for the PAD.   Done
UK.    rma NW IMMM  to be
(i)    Agreement on orgalzation of an  urban trsns,ort             Credit Covenan.                  Revie  as reuired.
authority Govorn_nt my  i*s to lesablish  and phasing
of implemsntation of Train de Sanliue  proJet
satisfatry to the Asociation.
(Ii)    Final agrement an the wnal financiel an  opating            lmnorpoated In the contract      To  e monitored ann*l Ir.
targets to be met by the railway each year of the          Plan.
projet.
(mii)    Presentation of the audit report of the raltla"s           Doss                              FM  and FY6 audit
account of FT 187.                                                                            eorta have also bee
received.
(iV)    lcr_ss  in Dakar port capaity by clearing the working    Contrat Plan                        To be      nltored annually.
*ras through: (a) rict implementation of bed
sto, and aution of I           dconolsgment*o (b)
fir  timetable for eintin of lont     storag
facilitie  to the working  res for Ci   de
106qwatilo, an  (o) periodic  rwise of the ae n
with llall on the us of the Free Ros, with vies to
reduce cot of Uali traffic and lprove port
otff iien.
,v)    S|1""tremlin     cstome procedures for tress-All.t,       StWdy TW  and timatabl            Review under Contrat Plan
literatoal trailot and oor-to-door contcais. aro                                          tmtoriwg NW SAL IV.



ACTMIII P_7*                                                         IWdMTATIC                        EARUI, DATES,
cms, ETC.
(WI)    Presentation ofa 'Tableau de Bord', and seting out        Contract Plra                    Review In Jun each year.
financial ad oeratlag targets of PAD for the duration
of the projec.
(vii)    Prepration of: (a) an Action Plan for each doe.atmt    Contrat Pln                        Review in Jn   ch year.
of the Port, (b) a Dat Procesins Plan, an  (c) a
mnposr plan.
(Will)    Agremen oan arrangmestA for non-progri   road             Cedit Coveant                    Review In June each yar.
sorb.
j*.   t*i,dtAon of fl1hncm
A.
(i)    RedO  mintenanc  of locations S eiet to fince
local pvrtion of agreed prasm he" bea budgeted, and
_d'PI    esuring their efefetive caitment and se
for mintwae work  to I ilo plae;  sunt asedud In the
fIrst qurtwr of F91 has be  deposited ln designated
accot; publication of decree specifying
organationl rspon lbility for contracting and
supervision of periodic and routine mintenac works.
(1i)    OM bes implemented a 1N tariff increas over 198
(}iii    Concelulso  of financil  restructuwr    of SCS.
(IV)    Signature of Contrat Plan  beten -Govemat and
SUS, PAD, and SONATRA-AIR #OAL.
(v)    Executien of subsidiary los agreseent beteenC Wa
Submission of a swri" of standrd contraCts for
rotin   mwinteano operatios.
F0 04



ACTIO  PROAM                                                         IMPLEiMENATION                    DADNES, DATES,
COMM, ETC.
§Mnd JrUDSm
(V)    Evidec o to) Il ollocrtion SW effetive disbursement                                        Review ln June 1992
of thie amount  nwcery for road maintenance in the
previous year; evidnce that the  reed shares of
periodic nnd routine minteace works have bee
carried out by private contractors, an that no
contrector bi ls are sore than three months
outstanding; adequate bodgtry allocations for FM9
an  deposit of amount  rnded In first quarter In
designated sccount.
(II)    Realilation of agreed f;inanciol an operating targets                                      RvIew 1 i June 1992
by SMC.
(iii)    Reolization of agree f inancsil end operating torgets                                      Review In June 1992
by PAD.
(IV)    Introduction of a reised tariff structure by PAD.
(v)    Satisfactory progres on mcroeconoic refo  progrm.         SAL IV                           Annual Review
iklrd Trancho 
(i)    Road maintena    wonditiona as In previous yers encpt                                      Review in Jun  109
tha 6o  of works hould be impl_mme  by contractors;
SaCS financial  Wd opegatIng targot me- PAD finacial
an  operating targoe swt; AI SENE6AL finaial aW
operating targee st; financial and operational plan
for ASECNA-S.ngl are  and iplemoftation started;
satisfactory progress on the maeroeconomic reform
progrm.
a.       1
(1)    Compilance with Policy Latter-all component..                                              Nb now contracts under
invertment component to be
pproved  it Policy Letter
net compid with.
for road maintennce In FY9S and FYO-road componont.
()    AdopTbon of stsfcors tfor Publ- c Wormn Tr.ain C
(OvP  "tetor tO IArea  omnnt



RAIUI  tOOMT-                   A      P
RCFS Ialem. Sbh_M: Acal F"OD-FM  - UMs BirAm  Sh_s.:  Proj ect   FS/F194
RtFS 511:s RSli6 W3-AF89 - OKI 8lws9 PrAt1010" Apis-APW
W^ I I I o CFALe)
11s/3  i,           1937/8        C       .p.3. .6    11188/09   1 0           1      1901/02         190211J       134
Flai  _m4                                             (CFAF *le.)   (i 4        (a)
Actual           ~~=totb                                                      rjce
Laod in Lo   bae             4.4       M.5   4 71.0           123.         1.45         73         in 793                             4421 1Xl
Ceiruetlam and tradct   6375.3    540.8    68139.3           2286.5         4.3       5048       $041        838          "48 T4o7              "lot7
W.3nm stock*             82016.4    40108.0    4483.1        420.1         11.81      4524       45417       478"        4414        49094      404S1
E       ,iqel t,o*        3663.7      83.7       4166.1       477.4        12.98       4134       4314        6428        Is          7T0M       7S03
Othor t4..i  n.              1113     1462.0     1433.7        33.6         1.33       1wo        1699        2143        3041        ml7        30l
lteS  gr lmd la ewms 6n067.1   1030 .0   101700.4          73.6           7.6e     It 1       1441183     122107      12*401      148856     144015
Am. I         ...  tras ch hes                    5.0   U       4.0           -        594         S01         641         660         740        30
Act. ree.ea Cmte.   452.1    42e0.8    40.6                     0.0         0.06      3278       4000        40U4        4163        430        44111
Ag.  pm.00 roSll.I   1063.1   21716.1    21300.0             1001.1         4.01     1 2141      1414        18         26I34        271         18342
Age. dr.on elip.          31.2        58.7       10.8         1M.           5.011     1747        17          327         3m          4119       455
SA   ass. A p"lotion    o1n.7          330.6       no.7        30.1         5.01S      in         1*41        11          1973        2431        Me5
te0l  cc_o.  caP.    610.7    705.0    72313.6            1741.6         2.3      673         8747        7119        770        76078       1im0
S"  t 01.  r416.9                     6537.7     1277.5      13.6          40.01      7613       11621        9431       1499            0          0
dMonc Ie I e               491.4      117t.1      5.6        -781.1 40.43              448         86          14         10f          126        126
Other fixed  *3             61.3        46.2       46.3         0.0         0.15        46          48          46          46          U          46
_t etof _ asch.           8011.3      153.5      3073.3        91.3         4.6       2494        2494        2494       2494        2494        24
my pf  3_3         1113.6            = .        47104.4  7n 7.0            10.13     54511       166         810         682        60          s
51.0      1030.0      1414.0       82.0        10.73                    on          0m        10o        109         1141
3a.slwabkse               1740.6      1110.2     SM.0         M5.3          9.45      1on        17          1748        1544        1210       1413
864mm... 3. staff          941.4       60.1       431.1      -115.0       -19.3S       484         387         "I          237         23         244
Prapsid .a_m               787.7       1U.4       82.         131.2        6o.u1      n237t31                  8as         si          105         3
Cash eelU Sable            445.1         5.1      911.0         31.i        o.01      1020        t8          1i1         171          150         m2
4t1*l        avows    4167.6       4213.7     406.11       747.5        M7.7       45          sm          4077         1e         m29        497
TO57M  ssm3              8785.3      4115.       10.7        6648.&        19.0S      am107      6           6143        M6         T7i7        70321
capital)rokel"m  egeela       .?      4M0.5      6121.1      1914.5        41.53      a76        1wi         2133 81 is             27111       27561
Smld1.g                  5314.1     61.2    100.7           3 -.56       62.13      1064        104         106ow      10          10414       10406
Pr.wsl.a                   735.8      100.0      251.7        067.3        47.33      4671        447         44n2        4472       4472        4472
Pratt of cm      peer    -11n.3      1914.       -13.4    -2101.9       -100.63       m7           463         487        444         144    UO
Ls" "M do                ICSS5 .0    16t55.9    1162.0       1463.1         7.0     "174          07         219S4      2646        176         21831
tees t¢2C9b.N 106                  3.         900.1      600.0         13.43     46452       4975        60215       67477       mtU        0968
norm  lldellitl_
SegIlnra                  I110.2      1051.2     1310.9,       52.7        6.0s        720        117         M1         S57         ?74         785
C  -r crandte             26.3        674.1      351.7        4217.6      13.110      370         a70         341         173           0           0
A- -1m                    1107.4      1543.1    2109.2        53.0         38.         070         3o          046       117          434          72
ASTCers as 4461           51.2        476.0      4706.9       113.3         4.        5431        5431        3021       131            0           0
T Umm                      313.8       179.0      671.3       401.7       m."         3o3          "
SeI_ee.smI(Ims)                       179.6      1120.0       30.0        14.01        s 371      1130          0           0           0           0
TotI cam     limbil ltie  11409.6    10700.2     3126O.8     2561.4       2W.        11   12470                69        199         11            37 
TOTAL L8ItLItU           37318.3    41616.3    62160.7       6645.        19.08       09107   1    2        68143       11488       71176   l     325
FOIfICU1. 1l05 3
Ctrreel ratio               0.42       0.39        ,.37                               0.u         0.4S       0.609       0.30        2.          1.90
D;wshieu, ret).             0.61       0.56        0.61                               0.44        0.42        0.38       0.39        0,40        0.38
(s) proS   oovy figure. a.b.ct to sadit jch)f raw prial;-i.   mA  edine&
O-6Apr.-0



e
S Soues  and Appte omm Of F                  a: LtI FTU rU ICs Fuojetsd Fm/FM
MS Soes at Appi   tlmo  dm  Foads: W.I1W.  A,U-"   - S:. Pr4vislou  APO"
(ml II . 1 CFAF)
iiji       aus,s       19713                    34        U1,59   11/8  6/910    361/92815   1992/       1gu991
tUrn am m91usE                                        S                         (*)
_ _etna inca                             _     mllin3. e l  Ia j.0
Ca.3 gmsmeatad Ices omati.           1461.66    163.63        43.5          2_stn                 im          gm          anu             eo*4s
S~lm                                                        273 ' - '9    21.90       i50         low         It"        462         211O         771
~l4i    i                          .|4 40.9                                            40      t           7           n    o           o           o
-  ------- ----                      2MU..6.12    3064.61    25.00                     MS2        1631I       7747        am2        l01s         86"
N* men OM otiagresa                  -14.11      en.14       40.64                    2g2          13          tie         10         M1          164
ba-ashltm                             4d.16     181."        174.14                   43 7           0          0           0
Tnmfor of useS to p qm                                      1366.40                   344            0        1160                  16) 
_d      Ss by pwsc                      Ma..       *.a.        S.A.                   n8           an          19          w          301         act
1fu1 lo* tw   s19011.2    6164.48    11019.66                                     1037         am         r22         It21l      24747        676
_dam.. psgI                        -703M.3     6.67    -1n."                          a          -3          -1o        -79         -19           0
C_1_sd I. la.d/sraeboom              244.63      497.25      31.4                       M            0       nu             0        1451           0
Csintvsstles £ t.   euitp.           Inc."3      245".49    223.0                     36o0           0        t4            0       34356           0
1a,doA~  la ceilies sIseb            66.10    711.04    5811.21.1e                                  M392-1l,               M          660         as9
_ _m s   lo .p1 t                       1.16      -0.03      47.45                       0         1o         i'iS       1t1U         M67           0
_ I_ t.U i t             *1.51                    14.34       38.3                    1449           0         446         M          so            0
1bb top                              49W1.62     13.35    413.67                         0        n           5486       556         1$             a
tdsh   I crn-II predaed)          13585.17    1410.        1664.0                    1314        15          106   I     132          M            0 
1. 1   n     56.i n   138117.6                   s7lO        414        1m    IU1,             3s4    u
_atumb                               610.3*       11n.n      63.M                      U7          6"         @74 11     11                      11 2
6461 gs,s_mS  110.1      1.36                      6           Mi          314       It"         156_4       to"
T~3   mesSes                     616.U.6    3440.00     164.46                    m6o         1U          341         no;        2136        8t10
eivdindea be w. Iss                                                                      0                      a 0         0           0           0
LiTameSsp cm tme  levrns             806.116  -1015.413       61.61                    416                      0           0           00
11 q la"t two    3il m             FU 03.010    961.    1    .                     0l66        61s        1M1 170                21            19
13M  LT. sU7I -u5.0 m                            3.        -1 .6                       2 I                    0          1022        25 1426
1I)UI 1MM MAUIMP4CM111111
4-Iaevomsi off
tim 367.6    -32.6l                                         5.74                    -S           45         -1I)       -IU          43           -9
=      *maw,                       -111o.r     373.34      481.5          -          21            0       -s31         -371       -373           0
.ecis                               50.10      25.63       53.03                   -106         -6          672          nfO       -665        -412
S.1.pwet,le  .3 L.T. dablIarreer    13271.4   -1866.00     1116.19                   617           0       -1613      -1611       .3633           0
o.t.sb.ft                           313.56    -14.03       491.71                    22            0       -691           0           0           0
eijes3mtI IN  toe.                   0.00      2.61        60.02                    -269         M9       -1180           0           0           0
ash 3.3.3  osr_rn      1162.50    -100.40    11.1                       4e14                   487r       -3i90       -273         -421
stares                              46.61      197.22      82.0                     -516                4    4           4            1 
re,.IvabI.s                        lN3.07    -13.60        I5."                      tO           40       -0          -I19        -194          79        a
_1*91e9 to  ff                     30.05    -34.86    -33S.00                         *         -97        -157          6          .4          tl            x
prepsid _pisue.                     -23.30    .559.31      131.15                    -9           82        -236        171    _    100         .99
sub total pplicatlo      .59         .0        493.7                     -456         n         425          n         -246     
OESSS .1. S CES/AMS.CATI5            3467.937    31.61       07.40                    -349          48      42m          .3931      -2438        -4216
MAII^TtCtt OF >45.01                                      251.52                     SI2t8                -3352       -910         -20        3932
51 USIO OS OF VtE   (395/65)    471.01         7.0         1.60                   1020        22          3o06        1ti          30 I06u



RM-IPa GP SIJ9A
RAIWA  GWUW- CMPDAUW  PI3301A1
NfS lao. Statiamm          AU        F8-It; SCS  l1cs_ SIatm..tt Pv.jaotgd Fm-98
llCFS C _pS. d'EbpieItctI.: ROIinA 5WAF89 - I1Ch  CapS. d4 ploltatlon: P4,tl*lono AFS-M
(1 I I low CFAF)
1M/ms imjs1        115/3         mwp.sf.p.111t.g.9l  1US1   ISjIO           110191    1992    1920 si i35 
_u5Iag r.ttF(CF Ole.)  (la )                                                     (a)
_maumpee "  beggga _      75.6       M.         W.5        16.80        4.13        I8is       is"9        1503        5          is62       1748
f1rel e umm.ro os p     518.30    5018.10    46.03         457.41       -S.I         o1n       501       0s           all        6m          722
f 148 06ap _ave         13.00   m1 .o          2847.n      128.n           5        20         245n       m4           1y        2W6         8142
ulesi laum       j       807.60D    2.50        to1.60    -280.D0      -4.n3         2          28         28          go         am4    t     19
SF0ItS'a m:6175.10                  18.00       165.00       0.0         0.63       "2           5         Bel         lei        set         u1
lb*ss 0*moim             03-.16     230.66      201.11     -69.10       -10.63       ISO        168       le          374        282         192
_twon f.m agsralm   181.44    so.o             3111.1      _ g          4.53         _89       9          0962       13597      12272      129
3.6w  e I               4853.18    41.65    4487.05         07.40        2.05       414        4          4018        4717       46          487
oe  a  _ 6. _wIiin       1".06    fe31         2722.85     52.141       10.6n      111111      alas       am52        a"u          no 2uun
bevies.    _s            351.64     3W.4        U74.14      63.08      2S.=         114          39        401         42£        410         45
hShsr 6            M35.1      1111.10    4163.615    871.70      -9.8         M0N                   312         824        887         1s5        3
ln_aust ben              1eo13.35    15s."      111.011     -4.5        -8.6         M          in         t0          1,    141        14      6 O
Flowi gassl creli.    153.17    1420.6    115601.0         4338.90       80.18      13114      &MI        1os3        nIII                      0
1.6.1 mesSin  mpmi.s   174.18  9t1l    61411.01            140.49       18.41       am          3U 19 741             ?M5    t    1I3         70
cum      16II  357174   165.6       U15O.1511   2013.5     480.41        4811                  1766gINS1  a           no         418         4137
tElob  _m  cl  pmIatBm 1182.3    1189.83    1747.67        510.81       49.186,u ,             21ts8      2441        W"           m          me8
Pmlgle                                -1.5                   2.21      -1t.05 812                 o0         0                      0           0
Tout spute            I. 6184    78.84    738              72.0t.       10.1       0810         0m        Gm         1o0        11314       llU 110
Kt W51121-DIEVRIN        8o0.8o 0    2513.7o    in.6    -1m.2           40.0         to          5        106 st02   9             29        1069
.mbermI  619.18  713.31  637.21  -32.10     -4.3        4634                  1078ton    to67        11M        21
-k_w ma i         _. r s:
coe_nm                35.3        135.00      Md.o0    -80.00        -10.1        no          M2        2M          M45                    1to
mm op l  raes   1614               1.       2471.2."8   410.13        £8.61      7801       n2           210        2M          in         I6
so .w_ _ps.m          427.1      I129.       M0.65      1298o.131    1081. 41    43            a          0           0          0           0
_  _ aguw. mass.    387.0510 1 1 .14             0.1to    402.15       -61.63      t273         457        448         448        440         482
Ft ICII                 -111.80    1914.6      -1.87   -20ol.10        -101.11      21?         4*         4*t7        44         144         3
1seg  c                    0.94       0.89        0.7?          -          -       0.7         0.72       0.63        0.61       0.65        0.67
Oper"14 rte     0.87        0.51       0.16          -           -       0."        0.93        0.90       0.90        0.92       0.n2
am S.Wic. roil             a.*.        1.87       1.47                              1.75       I."        1.80        1.6,7      1.40        1.42      a 
tIw  *.e _     emb mps   0.61         0."         01                                0.60       0.59       0.5-        0.6 1    0.306         0.66       * x
(Ptl.eya  faipe, subjnct to emetIehIffmrs. Wew inm m  aelts
@2.
05*c-60



900      90-0     1O-      n-o     tO-O    90O-      n-o                          n10        600         31      6       t'O  °" tldw
t0       910V     tvo       VI*0    so0     n 0 so 3l0                                       o *o       3-o    olI  £tlsb/we
*31  g1    631      31~~~881    so's    33    Bill                         colt       sel1        al1        014069~j6~
onst  to l    "            Ot  n"      0921 nI                               ",t u-tSgv             Abl-t                  OULMo    'Wos   J sAM
N't    Oa         am       331     si         *     Om                     0 l     11 63    "low t1 1,0t" ,.'4 a.hI.I*to-m  Ig16
MG       **@      GO$      tsoo     e         o ts   m t1101    als                          0.8tus                         "N O       33*i 'aq Al
*39      on       go9      an      3I9      O          t 333            WI*        10133     ",g1t       wOs                     *          1 "S
316      335      331tt 1t t         SI     gm       Om                   ,16-     4,1131    01,@16S 301                   *ja m  Jolt  h
*46  3911    3911    3311    3331    3331    3331  336  @33331    331333    135351~~~~~~~~~~"MF $1110FOL414
teatRee t*10         WmB am           "Mll                                  i-owm       Tom    &*.am            1       -        U    WOn
*0    °3 611 09     33a  w1uo 3      n 3in    on"309s                             p.3 33  3  311,13 13'31WASS"3 3                           $41"AS
an8      910      we3    33        13       Om1       an3               Si,"      136,113    033313    33,03t                       SJOP410 jam
to   Z gOU t      tt _t  too       lw'      ot  '                       a",t Ula             alie        "1rpe
l101st           0tat o1    93     gm       gm       *M                 W,-    V93311    311t             *l36s3wI
otoe     tot    sit        VAt    on        at    Ott                   strn      Si,"t   all"           nZlds                            Sao" t
I    41"0
331      131      3*s     9*1      m o   on1        3*t                U31       "13         0319,A00   103               un 6,
0 t    0 tt 003t          i ttL1    333     139      313                19-    113           4903    380333                      6.030. ut 
o "    *                   0       0        0        0339       t        331-   "'33         9t90   _ 9351
13333    UPS   3t1    a33m         "In    van    *1                     1 et  *3talent   ",33181   333131                     U11, 41  AM
163     t103       mU      19t    333        et    Otl                  n933 n-         983  p33t   tp*9ta1 W     00*31 wmdWP _pssesa   P"A
lo1s     0911     "a1    M33       $03*     Got    an9                  111It   g*9919       61,933      W*3*st                631663 *333 '
Om       VI       "i       U     uan        s        tt ot              a'   # lUlm                      9180        Swu gwoo *  nl *-di*    a pj
Sint    639t   363         363     31tt   003111  "31            n        w       633016    g,up         003311               33 soa.*3_a
O0   O 331    33t1t   Sol    331    3o1 1                                                                t310  t'6U              I         -l -1t1*t
61331    08*91    seo11    MO    o3"    *81311  3sew                    WI"       3*0t3      99*1        3903 o1ts                MOt t1Z19t nun
tot int    tot    twt    a"   ult t-  m                                 Sn0   nol            OCt S  o-ta                       ote     _Atw  _
O1t1     3931    UPS    a91 t      * 3n     313   O     I               33       4     t     ",V1t u,1191             m       t    lowon u-ts_t
Mst       MVt     anl    gmt    "Vs    utt    ns                        SAI oG      's o      ie tt'4"     U- t                 -     14 "  et°
0393     =9g      3393    S9       333       01       1l                a," 3-      3 at33 not 39n3 33l1:4            n           di3 V-01e"3
Ot"#  tUt   OtU  n,t    tt  ua    tttt               S  ~~~~~~~~~~~Of                                         towwUa    00nmNI* - .
Oe~~~~~~~~~~~~~tm    ofa                        ow t            VS~         Isit    t  b   tt sot UtU  S_t
~~~~~~O -   ^  6.191 ... -   - - 0._v -*"II--
,3d1ww(j0 401W - 1MR&
I'Mamul 2-an -11115SME TOMOMS
E ~ ~ ~ ~~~t 30 I                                 Xv
A3         * 13                       3         11
aI~~~~ ~            ~            ~ ~~~~                                                              0*63 -  . -



- 75  -                                   Annex  IV
Page 2 of 3
a           OF -Ham
PRVRANSOR  SICTEMIRSTENIJYETMN  PROR
wRae~~ ft;FQl USE D           T          ANg -
Pto  Cow"w - COMPOSANE PSORME
SONAPAI Sources and Appitcattons of FuPds Actual FPS?4Ps Projocted FY89/FPYO
SOMAPAD Source  et. Appliestloeos dc Foodt R4.l116  AF97-AFS1 - SCFS: Pr6eolone AF1-AF95
(* Il lI on CFAF)
loom &wsi                     1uini  uwm   ammft num &minim IMsu ,i,
-omomomm                      annct.ai                      oww Projecte
COO5 #rM, qieretioae          51519.791    SW63.6            3000.90    305.14 SEc l.O7  5211.1111 550.57 559775 117.06
SlOB sea, no cub lo_                    -16I.o              -1151.1    -157.1  -101.10 -15.51  -510.38 -175.00 -162.02
esorsela                       111.011   16s6.74               172       410.02 1024.   1       0 .00   34.00   94.00
lareag of caplot                 0.00       0.00               0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
mm uprti1"sg                   1N41       1ow.5               4.1s   m1e1.           .io    6.0 "2   M6."   150.4  as5."
Sea oveeatin eupsadltftge      47.41    46.140              -070.5*  -4001.43 .1011.47 -1213.43 47.W  .7411.1  .01,.65
A ,dJuag.ste,diveetturee         170      35.63                0.56      1M6."     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Trafrof sur  i tprayOn50."           1250.15             916.110    no186.1, 4511.51 15111-1.0161.00-G   500.0  0.00
TOTAL L.T.U                 51.09  U11 S.1               3.01    501.0 446.61 6763.1  1100.6  J56.5"  9167.14
LOW1 TE ~C111TIN"f
Oevlasst *"meaus                1.7.U8     577.01             45.40      45.00  4".30  U111.0   a0.0o0    0.00   o0.00
.frugOractre                   413.44    "6.06                45U.U5    63.U   53.64 57M.13  3401.00  100.00    0.00
OffIce oguigm.a for"Iturn,      4.31111    60."5              551.0      427.06   M.4"   60100   60.00   50.00   60.00
Trapest eeulp,t                 175.3      61.15o.            1.oo       011.21  511.1    10.      0.00    0.00    0.00
Other fiSnd e6                  409.00     111.19             164.0      11.50  16.O40   91.60   50.00    0.00   50.00
Ier tn p"rorss                 8415.n0     ".172              M.01    451.11  1611.112 1901.0   5.0    0.00    0.00
TOMAL            4M.13    01772.5              1236."     1n.7  56.r  6605.01 3031.0O  M8.00  150.00
isteret                        410.0      59.10                31.411    617.41  6tlO     11.W    m.1  67.s1  6.7n
04" twayo 0 t                   956.61    403.14              94411      33.63  6.46  642..4  1001.41 1111.40 1026.00
Toeu 4.5 oo srvce               517.14   u   .00             1171.u5    1    1     0.50 1641.64 1760.1  17317.91 105u4.n
.wteste@                        "C."        0.00               0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Oi.sribwtla                                 0.00               0.C0       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
OTAL LI.WPUC&T1U5          5110.90   10013               3407.76    571.10 65751.1511 615.   4113311.57 241T.6 154.7
03CUI  L.T.    W/lCATMIi 140..60                             -514._     -5.0 -140." -11.119. 65  011.0   913.41
WtOT Taml Sli                   lt t          |t".s                        .      M         t      .     l        898
legroome of suppietwo bl.ace   507.11    68.1W?             -93.0       65.11  11111.651  331.4 -15."  -51.36  -101.50
Iueee of acrus               1101.169  -831.644             140.6     43.01 -17M.311 U.30    1.    14.41   17.5
leaern  of _Osuerm   balsam  *43.43       3.515             146.   410.4   40.01 417.4    64.30    .01  *37.1
lacr_ e of oter ppabiin        52.64   -111.140               5.11       5.1    3.44      .11,   3.79    5.50    1.13
Increase of arreere au LT do"h  101.5    -461.5111           15.10    -1031.11, -100.11 -150.11    0.00    0.00    0.00
TOTAL SI.T.o               111178.57   -1a0.40            21.74            -10.14 476.U  -41. 411 11.910  -45.75
5131 TUI AFPUcAIWe
looun" of Ses.                -6.11      U.5                 5.11       U        o..#10    19.00    4.4    2.10    2.00
learoe of roIblw ea          15.94   473.1                 433.15     41.43  -13.96 -4&14.06   13.45   9.50   3o.-s
Ic e of pat_V ld esp. at.   244.51   -163.410                41.01      *.3      1.1      .    40.15    6.15    5.13
learosse of otber debtare bali.  40.9.1    65.003           906.00    -65.43  -63.10 41114.6311  41.43   41.5a   45.65
TOTAL S.T.WPLCATIU         I5.5 5     i  901- .u         -811.17    11170.50 -11,47.50 -1911.   &11.111 76.74   1.60
593   85.. soUA/APPLUCAnIU   -461.19    40.-                  61.61    -850.13 454.64  614.91  07.0r   493.72  -154.65
Uqaldity lacros 1                 5.459    =4.6               MM.38    .471 -3.  -1774.42 -3.54  1U5.112  777.77
Cosb agmits of yeew            5024.53    631.07             MO1.50      M.111 7746.011 4455.5  9711.e  1164.00  41487.19
Set !Ns at leow wet            667.07    7Me.50              61231.111  177146.0  443.50 1711.45116gs4.00 147.16  9415.07
0e  Serce Rato                    4.1        1.64               2.7U      2.16    1.81    1.18    1.U 0    1.I      2.21



Antex IV
76 -                                           Pag,e 3 of 3
PM grim - CeSAm PORIA
SONAPAD Sneoa Sttwts:s Act. I FPYwFY#s projected P1YS/P9Y
sAwA  Cecp  deuploltatlect: 3t 1.6 AFUO-AFNO - Pr6vieloe 0F9-AF91
(*II Ioan CfAF)
wai0^ 31143.                                                        1^ 
low  "1am                            U a z
1av*.. on ships                      .         6.8       340         0.5                 10131  1tu1       11*    111       1161     1147      it"6
PiIagl  pict                                 sm828 10.0  1if1674     6.111               11se    11W      11       112n    18        1480      1460
0o.... 0164                      1541.46     2100.=      332.42      4.10                an       an      1.      8a5n    SW         "s40      o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~16U4                            tin_."   U".Is                   not   Ms    &M            &M       u        to&*      is" 
#08.1. sad gtteg  di...  1861.61      a SI        to 116.1   a31               MI     M04      1M6      1M6      1M6     169        an
V.t.r..I.e8,I.I6l  34861 em 114_1? 8u .U                 248.14=    -v1.u                 a6        to      If        o       to      84o        n
_)6401103464                   61.06      35.8?      336.14      U.4                  314     so u.n           8W3 4u *           416 4uu
1.8.1:            6220.66    6668.76O4."  6.n  14.48  18.5                 1       1        833     693    660        66        9146
-W# P        0          .70    1M."                   ins                                                Ms 10111*.s                           "
m8641.Is VW fuels               of.2        66.6       60 M1.16   11.                   35      3M       154    %105      0105     L111      1
_,snl .a      u,.S              80._3      100.6         0.8      -4.16                1       1121 M:"1          18ut1   113      1 8v g0   141:
_n-    .                  .,  ':
'sam                 166.61      4~~~~~   ~~48.11  1.1  .1.1                 48      486      41       466      466      620       M
T&W1$ 61.8                     U.Oz        11.1"    1U.3                  4W       4113    an       434    43m        gm        621
CNPMs 360116             6406."     s136.7      886."8    Is."8                 3001    so        81464    182      UP3     an1       8611
ca      e c_n.     n uus.u z
=vosslablOs                     62.         Tie."     U6."        31.83                                 14ue   lowu    am          14       g16m
pow_lo.o                          0.00      36         16.W    .1.3                             M6                  M       1s      us       on
sab to8.I       M1."?    1410.06       1530.3      3.10                         UN1 f1   31       "a6   2gm        1671      I133
365*76u P1106.                   3144I.0111  61114.061   681.13     61.711              Om8       FM6     "W6   7?30    170          TM8       "12
36T WSAIIS 3      s.       t     118."       I111184    g1."    1so.10"                 u10        M       in      6on        M       M        1486
_m
Iote~   ehe'la                    81.41      410.67      W.10       "11                  a"       687       M       n11      1e      07        6u
367 3106.7 Oil   *1136.          236148    183.06       1816,40    16.15                  481     168      30       60        10      2?        M1
.884.6    143.11."   1610.31    1411.11   140.3                    M8        s      11 UT    o       64?      67t        on6
84e   64)I.g cheeps              1848.10     637.48        o. 11r    811.13              n6 8o             as    16           3       M         M
M5?T  OI l MMOU tMN.             140.01    10.M          166110.1   4.0 U.141                              114      48"      18?      3?         M
Tel es bel                        M-0.6        0.46        0.46      0.10                 an      1         M       16        St      1l       11
NOT L0.*5 7UI.                    6.06    110.1         1UU,.1      4.10         I        O       4o       6o       8t       U     UT           6s3
ftbloSt. sml,6g.
"ISO *tblo                          0.43       0.6         0.84                          O.      O.       0.n7    0.6       0.       0.00     0.e6
operatig ralto                      0.u8       o 0.n       o.                           0.v      0.90    0.U       0.69     .61    0.3         0.34
La84ur c" falo                     0.49       0.42        0.4?                         0.60    0.1       0.60    0.49    0.48       0.48     0.48



- 77 -
Page 1 of 7
LES COMPTES FINANCIERS D'AIR SENEGAL
LES COMPTES D'EXPLOITATION
Nistoripue des Recettes et Di2enses d'E12loftation
Depuis  son origin.  jusqu'&  l',exorcce  1982183,1'.xploltation t'AIR
SENEGAL a constamment ete deficitaire et ceci malgre la subvention verseo par
lVEtat. Ce nWest quo depuis quatre *no quo lo r&sultat d'.oplottation est
b;nisficiaire. La tableau ci-dessous fournit une evolution sur dix-huit ans
des recettes (y comupris la subvention) et des depenses d'exploftation.
Annie. I/    Recotte    Dponns  RSultutt    Anadog  Rocettes   Dinsom   Sigu ltats
--   (CFAF milI;ono)                     --- (CFAF mIllIone)
71/72          117,07     147,07     -80,50  IS/S     I 124,6   1 1 ,12       45C,02
72/78          144,40     167,82     -4$,84    1/62    1 U     I6,74 1 481816P  -127,44
73/74          227,14     267071     -40,5?    20    1 25,5      1 62674      -76,6
74/746         2276,       865 8     62,26    8864$      1    4265    1 840,4,   64
75/76          407,89     419,17     -11.76   04/6    1 598.6    1 577,65     .10,20
76/77          408,42     524,00     -55,0    U/       1 542,19   1 450,44    .05,76
77/76          689,66     09,1i      -26,82   00/67   1 608,26    1 496,80   9104,02
70/79          605,"9     770,86     -7576   07/63   1 957,07   1 657,4    .10,18
lo/s0          924,22   I AA2,60     -76,808019/      2 O658,5    1 900,75     92,78
Lon comp_o d'AXR SENE@L sent are4t&s au U Juln do e haque anuo.
V znrlu opr*vtoIoso pour grand, wisite de CFAF 148,79 .tloaowe, oxcept4ote_lelent
coept btllss an 'hor. *aploteltion' pour I'Un"i 61/62.
Afin do mieus apprehender leur evolution, lee postes recettes et
dtp.nses d'oxploitation ont ote convertis on francs constants do 1986/87 a
_laide de la serle des prix B ls consoumation (Indices consosmation type
africain traditionnel) at afin do cadrer avoc  l'exercice social de 1l
sociotS, on a choisi de faire une moysanue aitbmtique des indlces du moli de
ju1llot d'une annoe, aU mols do juin de l'annSe suivante.
"es rssultats sont reprisentis par l graphique ci-dossous dont
I'analyse permet de constater que 1 B recettes (y comprie la subvention
compensation), et lea doponses d'exploitation, ont des evolutions fortement
dtpendantes. Cocl s'explique par 1'9mportance des charges variables au niveou
de l'exploitation de l socilto (carburant, redevances, comissions,
personnel temporair... ).
On constata quo los dtp*oes qul oat  t; sup;rieureo aUK recettes depuis
l  de0Arr-8g  do l  socl;t; flehlasont a partir de l'9xercice 1981/1982 pour
devenir interieures aux recettes a partir do 198311984. Elles balssont au
point d'atteindro on l98S/1986, leur niveau td 1977/1978 (on francs
constants).
1l convient do noter quo Is baisse des charges s'accompagno d'une balose
de l'activit, qul est d'ailleurs relativ_ment Importants on 1985/1986. Et
l'on constate qu'avec 1a roprise do l'activiti on 1986/1987, lee charges so
remottent a ougmenter parall;lem4nt, tout on demeurant inf;iriures aux
revenus, d'oi un rosultat positif.



RECETTES ET DEPENSES DEXPLOITATION EN MF CFA 1987
22W
21W                                                 , ,q
'I'
U
*
*
*
ID                                                                               V
*
*             a
*              a                  a
*
*                a                a
U*                a                a
1711)                                        *                  i
*                        a
*
a                          a
a      *
S
*                             a
*                              a
1500
f
a
*
*                                                                                                        0
U
1300
1211,                             /
I
S
S
1100
I
S
F
S
U
S
I
S
1(1)
7420
'9
w
S
400.    1    I   I   I    I   I   I    I   £   I    I   I   I   I
7273747576717s79s98182  N384R586H75R59                                                     AHt41ESI-1SCALI3S



- 79 -
Annex V
?ag. 3 of 7
LES BILANS D'AIR SENEGAL
Los tableawx qut suivent resument l'ovolution du bAlan d'AIR SENEGAL sur Ia
periode 1983/84 i 1988189. Il en r-ssort quo los capLtaux propres sont
negatifs d''un montant equivalent, en valour obsolue, ; presqu  troli quarts
du capital social (200 MF.CFA). Cotto situation eat l resultat du cumul des
d&ficits des exercices anterieurs. Les capitaux permenents sont constitues
ossentiellement per les dettes a long et moyen terms. Un doublement du
capital social actuel strait un minimum souhaltable dans I& persp-etive d'un
renouvellement des avions nocessitant de forts Investiasemtes. L. montant
des dettes est stables compte tenu dos conditions dont a bon4fiie£  la
compagnie pour l'acquisition de ses apparll. et du re;chelonnmeont do see
dettes, lee renooursements d'emprunts ont evolue come suit g
69 MF.CFA en 83/84
17 MF.CFA en 84185
0 MF.CFA en 85/86
Dans le meue temps, les emprunts nouveaux ont eto de 50 MF.CFA en 1985186.
ACTIF                         t83184   8418S   85/86   £6£8   S7188   88/B
Actif £mobiliso
VALEURS INCORPORELLES                    84      191      58       71      56
IMMOBILISATIONS CORPORELLES
Machines                      1 305   1 211   1 127   1 328   1 350   1 305
Mobilier                         14       12      12      18       20      19
Materiel de transport             5       5       11       8       12      12
Constructions                    25      13       13       6        1       -
Autres immobilisations            7       6       14       7       63     101
TOTAL IMMOBILISATIONS         1 356    L 334   1 368   1 425   1 517   1 493
Actif cyclique
Stocks                          370     377      398     133      175     213
Clients                         540     670      707     745      810     937
Personnel                        40      33       53      47       21      36
Etat                             92     146      164     225      159     203
Autres debiteurs                 25      50       86     147      130     510
Comptes de regularisation        85      71       47       -       90     176
TOTAL ACTIF CYCLIQUE          j15S    1 347   1 4SS         217   1 3s2   OTS
Actif liquid,
Banques                          10      14       13      16      109     200
Caisso                            7        1       2       2        2       6
TOTAL ACTIF LIQUIDE              17      1S       lS      is      111     2ni
TOTAL ACTIF                   2 526   2 696   2 838   2 740   3 013   3 774



80 -
mx V
Page 3 of 7
LES BILANS D'AIR SENEGAL
Los tableaux qui sutvent rosumont l'volutLon du bilan d'AIR SENEGAL our la
porioto 1983184 ; 1988189. I1 an reosert qu. les capttaux propres sont
n gatifs d'un iontant oquivalont, On valeur absoluo, a presque trots quarts
du capital social (200 MFPCFA). Cotte situation set Io resultat du cuutl des
deficits des exerelees ant;riours. Les capfttux penmcnento sont constitues
sesentiollement par leo dottos * long *t moysn tormo. Un doublemeut du
capital social actuol serait un minimum souhaitable dano to prsspective d'un
renouvellement des avions n cessitant de forts lnvestilsoments. Le montant
dos dettes eat stablot compto tenu dos ceonditions dont a binefici; la
compagnis pour l'acqulsition de seo appar.ile et du r;echelonnement do sos
dettes, les remboursements d'oemprunts ont o¶rAuu commo suit t
69 MF.CFA en 83184
17 MF.CFA en 84185
0 MF.CFA on 85186
Dans la   me tompa, les emprunts nouveaux ont ;ti de 50 MF.CFA en i985186.
ACTIF                         ftt184   SILOS   85186   86187   87_88   !8189
Actif imobilis;
VALEURS INCORPORELLES                    84      191      S8       71      56
IM4MOBILISATIONS CORPORELLES
Machines                      1 305   1 211   1 127   1 328   1 350   1 305
Mobiller                         14       12      12      18       20      19
Materiel de transport             5       5       11       8       12      12
Constructions                    25      13       13       6        1       -
Autres tumobilisations            7       6       14       7       63     101
TOTAL IMMOBILISATIONS         1 356            1 368   1425   1 .17   1 493
Actif cyclque
Stocks                          370     377      398     133      175     213
Clients                         540     670      707     745     81o      937
Personnel                        40      33       53      47       21      36
Etat                             92     146      164     225      1 I     203
Autres debiteurs                 25      SO       86     147      130     510
Comptes de ragularisation        8S      71       47       -       90     176
TOTAL ACTIF CYCLIQUE          1 1S3   1 347   1 455   1 297   1 385   2_075
Actif lUquido
lanques                          10      14       13      16      109     200
Cais.e                            7        1       2       2        2       6
TOTAL ACTIF LIQUIDE              17      1        1S      18      111     206
TOTAL ACTIF                   2 526   2 696   2 838   2 740   S 013   774



- 81 -
Auziez V
Page 4 of 7
LES BILANS D'AXR SEIEGAL
PASSIF                        83/84  fi4185   85186   86187   V 87/8   88/8,
Capitaux permannts
Capital social                   200     200      200     200      200      200
Report a nouveau                .465    -465    -410    -413    -410    -384
R"ultat d. l'exercice .1          19      36       43     -38       27       34
RiGultats antericur                -      19        -      43        -        -
Reserve legale                     -                2       3        S        6
OT_AL CAPITAUX PROPRES          -246    -210    .167    *20S       17      -143
Subventions d'equipement          57      51       51       6        1       44
Provisions pour charges
et pertes                      99      138      134     170      309     260
TOTAL SUBVENTIONS
t PROVISIONS                    JL6       8       1         6      310     304
Dettes  muoyen et
long term.                  1 717   1 700   1 750   1 668   1 621   1 655
TOTAL CAPITAUX PERMANENTS    jJ27   1 679   1 761   1639   1 753   1 716
Passef cyclique comptes de tier
Fournisseurs                    644      665      685     625      837   1 199
Clients                            7       2        -        -       -        -
Etat                              19       6       13      1S       31       17
Autres                            31       10      19       10      1S       29
TOTAL COMPTE DE TIERS           ZQ 683            717              88    1 245
Dettes financitres ; court terne
8anques                           54      32       21      97       14       60
Compto de regularisation         146     302      332     354      363      754
TOTAL PASSIF                   2127      696,?4            7L
a/ Les r&sultats d'exerclce ont oto Int;gros *ux Capitaux propres
confonmement au nouveau plan comptable.



- 82 -
Annex V
Page 5 of 7
COMPTES DE RESULTAT D'AIR SENEGAL
CHARGES                       B2183    83184    84/85    85/86    86187    87/88    8L889
Exploitation
Matiures ConSOmmeeB           342.3   371.4   403.6   376.3   334.9   296.2   283.7
Transports consomes             5.2       5.4      5.6      6.0      0.4      6.2      4.7
Autres services consommes               210.2    267.5    244.5    225.6    404.3    513.2
Conulnissions                 295.1      46.5     54.0     63.6     49.8     44.7     53.4
Charges et pertes
divorses                    147.7    169.0   206.6    212.0    251.4    288.9    297.0
Frais de personnel            280.0    288.9    335.1    360.7    394.5    429.5    535.0
Impots et taxes                 3.0      0.7       1.3     10.6      1.9      7.8     12.0
Total                       1 073.3  1 092.3  1 273.7  1 273.7  1 258.5  1 477.6  1 699.0
Frais financiers               95.1     64.4     85.3      38.7     43.0     37.9     23.6
Dotations auxt
- amortissements             82.8     81.9    117.3    146.0    136.7    156.6    152.4
- provisions                 77.7    108.1    101.4         -    60.1    185.7    85.7
TOTAL CHARGES
DOEXPLOITATION              1 328.9  1 346.S  1 577.7  1 458.4  1 498.3  1 857.8 1 960.7
Horm Exploitation
Charges et portes diverses    51.0       80.7    155.9    238.2    379.6    174.9    242.1
Dotations aux:
- amortissements                -    45.6          -      0.5    17.0*        -        -
- provisions                 13.5    139.4     41.5      93.8    158.7     83.8        -
TOTAL CHARGES
HORS EXPLOITATION              64.5    265.7    197.4   332.5   555.3    258.7   24
TOTAL CHARGES                1 393.4  1 612.2  1 775.1  1 790.9  2 053.6  2 116.6 2 202.8
BENEFICE NET                  -76.0   +18.9   +36.- +42.7   -38.1    +27.5   +34.4
* La Comiss ion de Virification de. Comptes de la Cour Supreme a formiule
diverses recomandations portant essentiellement sur les amortissements des
pices de rechange et les provisions pour grandes visites. En l'absence de
pr6cisions ils sont regroupos dens la rubrique "hore exploitation".



- 83 -
Amex V
Page 6 of 7
COMPTES DE RESULTAT D'AIR SENEGAL
PRODUITS                 ,82/83    83184    84185    85186    86187    87188    88189
Exploitation
Recettes pax,
charters, bagages,
location
d'appareils          1 156.1   1 317.4   1 448.1   1 413.6   1 539.5   1 570.4  1 770.1
Produits et
profits divers          41.3      26.3      47.9      28.3      39.6    284.8      186.8
Total                  1 197.4  1 343.7   1 496.0  1 441.9   1 579.1   1 855.2  1 956.9
Produits financiers
et dividendes              -       1.5       4.6                   -         -         -
TOTAL PRODUITS
D#EXPLOITATION         1 197.4  1 345.2   1-500.6  1 441.9   1 S79.1  1 8SS.2  1 956.9
Subvention                53.0      79.9      93.3     100.3     104.2     102.7      96.6
Nors Exploitation
Recettes diverses         38.9      82.6     135.8     127.9     142.5      49.5      48.9
Plus value de cession
d'actif                    -        1.       1.4       0.8       8.9      11.7         -
Reprises sur:
- amortissements        27.9     116.3      80.0       0.1      51.3       3.2    134.7
- provisions               -       6.0         -    162.6      129.6     121.7         -
TOTAL PRODUITS
HORS EXPLOITATION         66.8    206.0    217.2    291.4        S3.3    186.1    183.6
TOTAL DES PRODUITS    1 317.2  1 631.1  1I I. 1  1833.6  2-015.6  2 144.0  2237.1
DEFICIT NET              -76.0      18.9      36.1    +42.6    -38.1    +27.5        +34.4
Remarquet
Les  provisions   qui  figurent  dans  le  cowpte  d'exploitation  sont
essentiellemnt des provisions pour grmndes visitest 102 MF.CFA en 1983184;
101 MF.CFA en 1984185. Four 1985/86, a la diffarence des annees precedentes,
par suite d'un changement de mnGthode, les GV out te amortteos apres avoir ete
effectu&es. C'est pourquoi lea provisions sont nulles en 1985186.La
Comaission de Verification deS Comptes de la Cour Supreme a reccurianmde  a
juste titre, i AIR SENEGAL de rOvenir a la me'thode anterieure. La prise en
compte dO ces recommandations slourdit lea dtpen8es d'exploitation de 1985186
dO 85 MF.CFA.



^ 84 -
Annex V
Pag. 7 of 7
COtYS DEPLOIATION A L UERE O4 O  POUR LES DLEtM TYPSSDAVO
UTILISES PAR AIR SENEGAL (HS 7-48. T_wvg Otte D)
(EN-PCFA)            COUT8 D'EXPLOITATION A L'HEURE DE VOL
ACTIVITS                           HS                  TO
Nombre d'heures de vol             1 731               1 816
--- --- -- --- --- --     -- --               --- -
Coats variables
Carburant                        140 900              57 338
Transport pi;ces avions            1 628               1 615
Entretien                         53 167              24 072
Commissariat                       7 086                  -
Praia de touche.                   2 563                 261
Taxes aeroport                    Z5 418              10 961
Redevances                        24 519               7 683
Frais PNT                          4 611               4 574
Frais PNC                          1 937                  -
Frt*is GV
(provisions + amortissemonts)   54 745               22 271
TOTAL COUTS VARIABLES            _6-574              126 775
Corks directs fixes
Assurances                        33 097               6 468
Frats financiers                  20 480                  -
Amortiesements matoriel volant   39 306                7 273
TOTAL COUTS DIRECTS FIXES         92 883              13 741
Costs indirects fixes
EntretLen                         24 150              20 700
PNT                               28 487              15 272
PNC                                4 060                  -
Handling                          SO 727              16 158
Frais do structure               128 028              40 782
TOTAL COUTS INDIRECTS FIXES      235 450              92 912
COUTS COMPLETS                   644 907             236 428



- 85 -
Annex VI
Page 1 of t
ASECNA-SenoRsl
1. Financial Performance and Current Position
1.       ASECNA budgets are drawn up separately for Article 2 and Article 10
operations.    The  former  covers provision,  operation,  management,  and
maintenance of air navigation and communication aids required for
international air transport, as well as meteorological services and air
traffic control operations, carried out on a total system basis throughout
the member territories, with cost-share for each country based on community
decision.   The latter covers management, operation, and maintenance of
airports, air navigation and communication equipment not covered by
Article 2. The provision of infrastructure, i.e., construction of runways
and terminals, as well as their rehabilitation and upgrading are Government's
responsibility, usually.carried out under Article 12 by ASECNA, who collect
specific dues and surcharges, the proceeds of which are deposited in Special
Accounts used to amortize related Government debts. Article 2 budaets are
approved by ASECNA Board.   User charges generate the bulk of Article 2
revenuest in flight dues accrue directly to ASECNA-Counanity, while revenues
from other charges are shown under the Article 2 budget of the country where
they are raised. The statutory budget participation of amber countries,
which has remained unchanged for over 10 years and actually represents less
than 152 of Article 2 revenues, is expected to be phased out completely over
the next five years, so that Article 2 services will be fully covered from
user charges. The Article 10 budget is approved by both the Minister of
Equipment and ASECNA Director General and must be balanced: if Government
opposes tariff increases necessary to meet this objective, it has to provide
a subsidy in the same amount.
2.       While some of the services provided by ASECRA are specific to
Article 2 or Article 10, there are a number of cases where the same equipment
and personnel serve the functions of both articles. The joint costs are
apportioned between them according to agreed ratios.  Table 1 gives the
various sources of revenues and their respective budgetary allocation. As
shown in Table 2 in 1988 dues for landing and beacons accounted for the bulk
(992) of Article 2 revenues, passenger dues for the bulk (601) of Article 10
revenues.   Landing and passenger dues also contributed most  (732) to
Article 12 revenues.   Landing fees are distributed between Article 2,
Article 10, and Article 12 in the proportions of 24/45, 10145 and 11/45,
respectively. Beacon dues are collected under Article 2 in Dakar-Yoff, but
under Artile* 10 in other airports. Passenger dues are divided 80/20 botween
Article 10 and Article 12; proceeds from a CFAF 1 surcharge per liter of jet
fuel are shared 60/40 between Article 10 and Article 12. In recent years,
ASECNA-Senegal has attempted to expand the revenue base of commercial
activities to increase Article 10 and Article 12 revenues and begin reducing
the need for Government subsidies.
3.       Table  3 summarizes  the ASECNA-Senegal  (Article 10)  financial
statements for FY87 and FY88. After deduction of the self-balancing Special



- 86 -
Annex VI
Page 2 of 7
Accounto item, they show expenses rising 102 to CFAF 2.15 billion in 1988,
whereas operating revenues remained unchanged at CPA? 2.5 billion. Benefits
decreased accordingly by nearly 302 to CFAF 386 million, but they are
deceptive since no depreciation is charged to income. ICAO gave a notional
estimate of CFAF 300 million for depreciation in their study of June 1988,
whicE suggests that the real benefit may be less than CFAF 100 million, still
a satisfactory result.   By end of FY88, retained earnings amounted to
CFAF 1.4 billion. But receivables on customers and the Senegalese Government
added up to CPA? 2.5 billion, leaving a liquidity gap of about 1.1 billion.
Table 3 also shows the status of the Special Accounts and their uses. The
1988 cumulative balance of CPA? 1.6 billion also included receivables of
CFAF 806 million.   Overall, the liquidity gap of the Senegalese accounts
would serm to be about CFAF 300 million, a manageable amount. So far, no
treasury advances have had to be made by ASECNA to operations under
Article 10 in Senegal; in the other member countries, such advances have been
made to a total of more than CFAF 5 billion, most of which cannot be
recovered.
2.  Tariffs
4.        Tariff setting authority for Article 2 activities rests with the
Board of ASECNA who, in the face of continuing difficulties in collecting
member country contributions, have decided to increase user charges over the
next five years sufficiently to cover the costs of an agreed investment and
maintenance program, and obviate the need for member country contributions.
This will limit investment and maintenance expenditures to levels necessary
for safe commercial operations and leave simply politically prestigious
projects to be financed by the countries desiring them.
5.        Tariff setting authority for Article 10 activities rests with each
Government, who may decide to subsidise ASECNA rather than raise tariffs to
levels covering the cost of services provided. As shown in Table 1, ASECNA-
Senegal has received annual subsidies from Government of CFAF 188 million.
However, accounting deficiencies are such that it is not clear what these
subsidies are compensating, since ASECNA provides a number of r.nn-
aeronautical services to Government free of charge, as well as having to
provide services at domestic airport without being allowed to charge the
customers for their long-term marginal cost. This is particularly true witt
respect to rental rates on airport facilities in Dakar-Yoff, which are not
based on opportunity costs and have remained unchanged since 1985.  The
proposed Action Plan will establish sound accounting procedures to allow
revision of the tariff structure based on the cost of services provided.
3.   Financial Obiectives
6.        ASECNA-Senegal  aeronautical  services  and  airport  management
activity, should  be  run  as  a  fully  autonomous, commercially-oriented
operation, with operating revenues covering all operating expenses including
adequate maintenance, provision for losses and renewals and interest charges
on debt.   To achieve this, important reforms are necessary both at the



- 87 -
Annex VI
Pag2 3 of 7
ASECNA-Community and ASECNA-Senegal level which presuppose cohesion along
agreed goals, priorities and management guidelines, enforceable by ASECNA
General Manager, who should be able to select and hire local managers based
on their technical competence.
7.       At the Community level, budget and accounting prc'cedures have been
inadequate in many respects. Recording of assets has been haphazard, and a
recent inventory carried out in the first semester of 1989 has left many
areas of uncertainty. Furthermore, depreciation hoe been charged only for
assets which are ASECNA property; it is, therefore, difficult to measure the
full cost of capital for each function performed. Stores classification is
inadequate, and records are not properly kept; an inventory is needed as a
first step toward moderr.ization of stores and purchases management.  The
Article 10 budget is hetarogeneous, partly subjective (based on major inputs)
and partly objective (lump sum to operation units); this again hampers the
perception of costs, and does not contribute to a cost-effective allocation
of resources or to good monitoring of their utilization. The recent ASECNA
reorganization plan provides for complete overhaul and computerization of
financial and cost accounting at headquarters level, but the extent to which
this plan will also benefit the Article 10 activities remains uncertain; it
seems that the commercial activities would not be covered in the near future.
8.       Billing at ASECNA-Senegal has  Iuproved somewhat with the test
introduction in 198511986 of a computerized system. But some issues remain
unresolvedt (a) most revenues under the Article 10 budget are derived from
passenger dues; false declaration related to passenger totals, and their
status (different rates apply for national or International passengers) are
thought to defraud ASECNA of substantial amounts; (b) there is an unnecessary
duplication of data processing for billings by Community Headquarters and its
Senegalese representation; and (c) billing is still done manually for all
ASECIA-Senegal commercial services (rentals, billing back of utilities) under
very inefficient conditions. Streamlining of procedures is envisaged under
the reorganization plan, but progress has been lagging behind implementation
schedules.
9.       Revenue collection remains the most critical issue.  While at the
Community level, th. gap between total invoicing and arrears has begun to
narrow in the past year, it has kept growing for Senegal from
CFAF 1.8 billion in 1985 teo CFAk 4.8 billion in 1988--the worst performance
registered by ASECNA in any country. The recent restructuring plan for AIR
AFRIQUE, one of ASECNA-Senegal's largest debtors, will certainly have a
positive impact, although it ;a uncertain whether the Article 2 or Article 10
budget will get most relief; payments under tho present system are collected
by separate treasurers for each budget, who have to apportion amounts between
budgets for payments (such as landing fees) that pertain to both budgets.
Establishment of a more efficient interface between Community (Article 2) and
national (Article 10) financial managemerzt is included, in principle, in the
ASECNA reorganization plan, but the complexity of problems at Article 2 level
as well as fina¢tcial constraints make the timing of Article 10 reform
measures quite uncertain. It was, therefore, decided at appraisal that the



- 88 -
Annex VI
Page 4 of 7
study for an operational and financial Action Plan for the modernization of
ASECNA-Senegal management included in the project would fully treat both the
commercial and aeronautical aspects of ASECRA-Senegal management; for the
latter, it would, however, build upon any reforms being implemented or
proposed under a common ASECRA framework.  Terms of Reference for the study
were agreed at appraisal.
4.  Forecast Financial Performance
10.      Without the results of the proposed study, it is not possible as yet
to develop sound financial forecasts. However, Table 1 shows the proposed
FY90 ASECNA budgets for Senegal.   They indicate that revenues under the
Article 2 and Article 10 budgets are expected to reach CFAF 3.3 billion,
compared to total expenditures of CFAF 3.9 billion. The Article 10 budget
shows a planned surplus of CFAF 228 million, whereas the Article 2 budget,
despite a Government contribution of CFAF 332 million, has an apparent
deficit of CFAF 793 million. However, in-flight assistance dues generated in
the Senegalese Flight Information Region (F.I.R.) should amount to at least
CFAF 2 billion.   It then appears that the "real' budget for Senegalese
airports is more than balanced overall, producing an expected surplus of
CPAF 1.2 billion or more (assuming that the CFAF 820 million revenue of the
Special Accounts are committed to future spending).  This would seem to
indicate that there is some subsidization by Senegal to other ASECNA member
countries.



- 89 -
Annex V-
Pago 5 of 7
TABLE 1: ASECNA-SENECAL WUO"ETS FYSS-PYO
------Art.  1.-----                          -Art.2--
X ot                 X ot    Art. 2
1. Operatin aExpensom            ls60                 1o0w      Total 10U           Total       * 10
Conosuptiens
FuI, lubricants        45,534    5$,600   59,858       46.11    46,U83      55.90    86,9S5
Electrieity            250,925   255,006  268,000       6.830  120,231       52.83   594,231
Water                   90,515     2,58    898,86      6.11    41,6008       3.0x   121,800
Other                   25,475    25,475   23,475    188.83                   8.80    23,475
Total               408,249   599,576  411,525       65.6X   215,730      54.21   625,064
External Service
Transport               80,105     85,686   81,688      41.5X   114,685      5.65    106,486
Telooeone, melt         28,606    40,688    40,606      16.11   211,491      65.01    262,091
Repre sntai,la         S1,6,8      14,5O0   21,967    90.65        1,8O6      6.43     25,467
Insurance                2,096     4,206   15,446    190.63                   a.8x    16,446
Other                    5,200    26,414   81,776       84.1X     6,888      16.09     57,776
Total               141,45    172,174  191,389       58.4X    533,676     63.61    525,265
Labor Coe                   9034,16    047,70  996,9064      44.X1 1,2508670      55.7X  2,246,774
Operations, mlnt ncn.
Major repaire          135,886    70,886    16,886    186.83                  8.8      16,686
Operations             242,464    264,358  294,500      71.7%    116,541     28.31   410,841
Transport                5,686      5,688    4,600      87.3        075      15.83      6,175
Total               583,464   537,56M   509,866      72.5X    117,81      27.53   426,016
Ust Io ated                  356680    23,888    5,868    18880.18 0.0                      38,006
Provislon                   1708008   251,686   160,666     186.83                 O.OX    156,666
Interet                       2,60800 58          2,56      108.0                  8.8X      2,500
Management Fee                         16,02  194,80        186.83                 8.OX   184,680
MTAL              2,874,074  ,219,653  2,10,068      57.x  1,015,60t      49.4X  5,058,119
Art.2 * 10
---------A rt. 10W-                --Art.2-          Coaptes SpOol3ux   * COapteA
s Of                s of              X of    Sp clov
s. Operating Revenues o       19S8  laJjt 1990 Sot l            90    Tot          19   Totel          i!
Landing due        262,0o   517,845  508,5,50  25.45   6068,04    54.63   20,269   22.61   1,294,77
Bowen* & lights    12,00       11,12      7,086   2.63   261,426    07.21                         209,414
Prkitng (Plane)     58,OGO    5:,O       52,267 198.1                6.6o                          I2t267
Pn_sse rs        1,260,0O  1,868,018  1,580,455 62.23                6.61    "98,8    17.63    1,679,08
Freight             40,008    58,006    4,688  64.41                 8.81    11,976  1561x         76,646
Rental             256,68    226,666  24,90  78.71                   6.63    101,932  29.3X       547,652
01I surcharge       90,06,08    ,e      18,285 56.45                 8.61     72,690  41.63       174,891
Parking (Cer)                                                                 41,891  180.8        41,091
Billing back       132,988    82,666   76,608  49.2X    70,au    5.6.5                            156,194
Paid by Art.2                   6,788    5,700 18.8X                 6.SJ                           5,7809
Subsidy            136,217   136,217   168,217 188.83                C.63                         108,217
TOTAL       2,222,217 2,3187,109 2,426,202 56.4X 1,889,720    24.61   619,185   19.0!   4,860,662
S. Surplus to Invest  147,U43   167,059  226,831                                                     Feb-90
-rss:  ASEM, oeober 1080



TAKE   t 2ASWCA-S  BEALt R              I mIii62  IN FIB? AND FI
MI. 2              Mt. la                 SPW1AL ACCOUWTS     TOTAL    ARM. 2              AM. 10                SPSCIL A"CMS         TOTAL
IILLtO       US          OF   IULLtO        I          I OF WILLIS   HZtL0I2         I S OF  UI11         I OF   "u1 HN       a OF   wU10*
5Q -                SEOC   TMZ                                 IU~         WE    I OE U cE m I cL M      cmE   3fTm                                WE   7k    cm
L*4ifte                      627.70    54.62     59.14    22.905    22.75        22.005  3,7.60    i.2.    4253    262.21           21.90        .      20.7m   1.16472
_urn.,  ot*                  846,66   927.M1       6.10     2.26                   0.06   254.96    25.0?    90.746        0.11      2.201                0.06    22.18
Pfttl*0                                           0.45       100W                  0.05    62.46                        1.26285     72.186    340.7S   i2.fts  1,10.40
P606"..                                        13,S86.44    00.0U1    240-62      2."2  1,74.06                         3,6.65      78.65     20.75    1.9."5   1,70S.0
Freel.s                                           S6."9       an       3.32         40     2.31                           59.67    60.705  s6.7n    40.465         2.44
0)1.,                                             42.14     00.24      27.61     2.76      6.96                            0.22      0.42                 0.06       0.22
1SWAMA                1.0t4.66    29.06   1,46.26    51.         706.11      1.6t 3,6.33 52       2.32     6.46    1,765.94    42.00     645.72    I7.2$  3.2.4.06
2. 1eh   a    :
WaSu                          6.10      1i0                  0.06                  0.06     6.70       6.42    45.861                0.t A                0.05      6.42 t
Afduad IL Saf                  5.64     2.42S    197.66    66.6        24.97     10.21 S22.20          1.10     0.406    202.68   12.605         0.0      0.06    200.68      '0
_taXs.                                           251.24    "4.2S      1.24       95.65   2o.a0                           225.66    59.65t    206.79    52.909    433.64
Wim.llI 1.2?    14.566                             6.04    85.466                  0.05     0.41        .66     7.Man      7.St    7W.O                   0.        9.27
S6I                      WM.61     2.145    47.26    71."6    104.bl        25.871   63.0         2.12     1.455    526.24    64.565    206.78       2.555    754.2t
T&i                                            LUt    4                ZLM              4mJL  Q1L3                     tLW
kgsm: A .  Oa.1.e 126
v                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00W
a
-4



TAt  AS!O4A - AR- 1l - FIN"tCIL UFSUL    FY37 N  FY8t
I. 1NtQ9U  STAItEEIhT 196? mkd 1NG8 (1 ml eItoo  FAFC
Coasu ption                   477.2       4"0.?            Ailport duos
Labour cots*                  99 .        978.2              Landing                     289.1     269.2
Exteroal services             3"O.9      1l3.0               8eacons, liht.                9.1       8.1
Transport                      9.60        96.0              P2rking                       2.        68.0
Other costo                     3.2         1.9              Passonaers                1,387.4   1,362.7
Payment to Art.2              137.3       1265.                                           69 .0     69. 
Subtotal                2,013.3     1,815.2            miscollneous                  466.7     631.4
Proviston for bad debt        137.9       t?7.0            Member States subsidies       198.1    201.4
Interests                       2.2         1.8            Other revenues                 43.7       7.8
Special acounts               8t7.8       852.6            Special accounts              670.6    852.6
Payment from Art. 2            13.4      13.6
Totl expes_             1,24.a      2,866.6              Total reveeues            8,387.9   3,372.3
Prei"ous years loe             66.0        47.6            Previous years benefits        79.4      31.5
Exceptionl item                             4.2            Exceptional revenue             0.0       6.1
iNCOME                    M80.6       645.8
II. FINIMeIAW    JI SM 1987 AD  9   (in million CFAF)
a)  Reai.  eaei
Carried from prevlos Year:             1,m08.S              812.9
Profit of the year:                      880.6               546.
Allocated to lnuvetme t:
Retained at year *nd:                  1,896.0             1,008.5
Roeivables from elients:               2,809.4             1,881.3
Subldies owed by Governmet:               96.2               196.8
Casb po.itiow:                        -1,070.7           -1,668.0
IIIl. REcI6L ACCKM
Reveue  l!ocsted:                     81.                  52.6
Rebtnu sici tods                        -8281.8            -296.96
P nevisio , or ^t  ltanamci             -828.4             -214.2
Saleec. for the v.~ars                   280.5              342.5
Cumulative balance:                    1,861.0            1,240.4
Soutes:  ASECNA, ecember 1989
-4a



- 92 -
Annex VII
Page 1 of 12
DESCRIPTION OF TSAIP INVESThMNT COMPONENT
General
1.       To help Senegal reslize its transport sector objectives,  the
Association and some twelve cofinanciers will provide financial assistance
for a five-year program of adjustment, rehabilitation, and maintenance of
transport sector institutions and Infrastructure. This Five-Year Program is
a comprehensive program of priority investments, that ful£ill the 12S rate of
return criterion and/or are essential for safe operation. It coverst
(a) Roads: strengthening of about 860 km of severely deteriorated paved
roads; periodic maintenance of 1,800 km of paved and 1,300 km of
unpaved roads; routine road maintenance works by fore account and
by contractors on about 9,000 km of the priority road network;
technical assistance to DTP, DTT and CFPTP; and consultants'
services for works supervision and studies;
(b) RailwaXs: intensiv maintenance of 180 km of track; spare parts and
equipment for mairzmnance; equipment and works to Improve operating
efficiency; training, and technical assistance to SNCS in the areas
of traffic management, supervision of track and rolling stock
maintenance, marketing, finance, and manpower development;
(c) Portst Improvement of road access to the container terminal in the
northern port sone and rehabilitation of over-aged utility
networks; technical assistance for full implementation of the
agreed Action Plan; and consultants' services for studies; and
(d) Aviation: runway rehabilitation in Cap Skirring and Zigulachor,
renewal of essential navigation equipment at selected airports, and
consultants' services to assist in reorganizing AIR SENEGAL, and
improve ASECNA-Senegal's airport mana; uent performance.
Road Subsector: Protram and Pro1ect
2.       The road component (MAP IBRD 20880) Is a Fivo-Year Road Sector
Program (FYRS?) consisting of a road maintenance program managed by DTPI and
a modernization program for road transport administration managed by DTT. It
is estimated to cost CFAF 118.1 billion Including physical contingencies and
taxes (US$345 million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of
CFAF 67.4 billion (US$224.5 million equivalent). In carrying out tho FYRSP
Government will Implement its strategy to clange the role of DTP from that of
quasi-contractor executing works by force account, to that of planner and
supervisor of works eaecuted by private contractors. This is necessary to
enable DTP to cope with the exceptional volume of urgent maintenanco works
necessary to salvage a third of the existing paved network froa Impending
collapse.



- 93 -
Annex VII
Page I of 12
3.       The road maintenance program Is estimated at CFAF 116.2 bI'lion
(including physical contingencies and taxes) and has five subcomponentss
(a) Road strengthening of 860 km of paved roads at an estimated cost of
CFAF 63 billion (472);
(b) Periodic maintenance of some 2,065 km of paved roads and 1,300 km
of gravel roads at an estimated cost of CFAF 36 billion (311);
(c) Routine maintenance of some 9,000 km of the priority network,
estimated at CFAF 23 billion (192), including minor equipment and
spare parts acquisition, estimated at CFAF 930 million; and
(d) Technical assistance, consulting services and training, amounting
to CFAF 2.2 billion, (2S).
The  modernization  pro  am  of  road  transport  administration  has  two
subcomponents:
(a) Rehabilitation of office facilitle2 (CFAF 54 million); and
(1,) Technscal assistance, consulting services and training for the
strengthening and modernisation of DTT and for the development of
a road-aafety program, estimated at CFAF 1.3 billion (12).  The
subcomponents are described in more detail below.
4.       The vaved road strenathnlnat Lro' ^ concerns 860 km (for details
see Annex VIII) and 27 road sections.  Ti    have been grouped for bidding
purposes into 12 lots, divided Into ti, *  parts.   Two lots  (Tranche
?EDIITALY, 90 km) concern National Road 2 (RN2), where selected sections need
strengthening while others will require *rsurfacing only. Blids have been
awarded and construction will start in early 1990. For Part A (255 km, 12
sections, 3 lots), detailed studie  baed oti 1982 data are available for
about 218 km. For L-rt B (515 km, 13 sectlons, 6 lots) a diagnostic study
dated 1982 is available.  To speed up bidding procedures, it was agreed
during appraisal that the European Development Fund (FED) carry out teehnical
studies and  su_mary economic update for Trenches A and B based on terms of
referonce agreed with IDA and other cofinanciers; theso are avallabl- i§n the
Project File. The various donors will subsequently finance the consulting
services for supovision of the civil works contrata related to their
respective financing. The ton lots have been ranked by econoaic priority,
I.e., by ERR for each lot, with a minimum rate of 122 roquired for any road
section to be included in the project. The lots to be put out for bids were
established on the basis of the(1194'followt!Uterias
(a) Goographical, to avoid dispersion of works;
(b) Technical, to ensure consistent methods of works execution; and



- 94 -
Annex VI!
Page 3 of 12
(c) Financial, i.e., CFAF 2 billion, or more, to attract international
competition.
The technical norms are those adopted by DTP under earlier projects financed
by IDA.  Only road width can be modified as required, based on observed
levels  of  traffic.    Road  width  characteristics  were  confirmed  at
nezotiations.
5.       The periodic maintenance program for some 1,800 km of paved roads
and 1,300 km of gravel roads is indicative except for the first year; and
will be reviewed annually with IDA and other cofinanciers to define the next
year program. The selection criteria for each section will be based on a
minimum ERR of 122 and follow a methodology aareed at negotiations. Lots
will be established in terms of the geographical, technical, and financial
considerations described in para 4; if at all possible, lots should be of
CFAF 300 million or more for paved roads, and CFAF 100 million or more for
gravel roads. Technical norms will be those adopted by DTP for these types
of work (single surface treatment, double surface treatment, cement-asphalt,
laterit. regravelling; the use of sand-asphalt should be developed).
6.       The routine maintenance  roagram will   carried out according to an
agreed routine maintenance Action Plan which details cost estimates and
physical objectives for routine maintenance of some 9,000 km annually. The
prograu will be reviewed and discussed each year with IDA. At January 1990
prices, the base cost including physical contingencies and taxes of the
routine maintenance program is estimated at CFAF 5.8 billion for FY90,
CPA? 4.4 billion for FY91, PY92 and FY93, and CPAF 37. billion thereafter.
These minimum estimates were confirmed at negotiatil..s; they can be revised
upward annually. If, for any reason, a downward modification of the routine
maintenance program were unavoidable, the following priorities would be
observeds paved road maintenance takes precedence over unpaved road
msaintenance; for both, the highest priority is given to the most heavily
trafficked sections. Technically, first priority will be given to asphalt
pothole repsais and patching on paved roads in excellent and good condition,
and to cleaning the drainage system, etc. on all roads; next to laterite
pothole repairs on paved roads in poor sad very poor condition, next
regravelling of shoulders, and light and heavy grading of gravel roads.
Horizontal signalization of paved roads and spot regravelling of unpaved
roads are a lower priority. These priorities were confirmed at negotiations.
Priority criteria will be reviewed periodically by BEM based on the analyses
of BGR and discussed with IDA.
7.       The proportion of routine maintenance woks  to be carried out by
contractors in successive years has been agreed. A coherent classification
and accreditation system of contractors will be developed, and a series of
standard contracts, based on those devoloped during project preparation, will
be tested. Supervision of routine maintenance works will be carried out by
the SRTPs under BERM overview; the latter will be r,4pported by technical
assistance. The organization of the supervision of maiAtenance works was
eareed at neatltions.



- 95 -
Annex VII
Page 4 of 12
8         Technical assistance and training will be oriented in a new way
under the program. Technical assistance (347 person-months) will be required
to:
(a) assist the Project Coordinator in developing and implementing aid-
coordination and project monitoring procedures;
(b) assist DTP in the establishment of the Road Management Unit; and
(c) assist BERM in its transformation from executing to planning and
supervising  agency.    Outline  technical assistance  tasks were
defined; detailed terms-of-reference are available in the Project
File. The program also includes an important training component
for DTP personnel.   This will be centered on network condition
surveys, programming of works, contract management, and supervision
of works by small contractors. Some training for small contractors
will also be provided by CFPTP.
9.        Rehabilitation of DTT office facilities will provide the requisite
apace to organize itself more effectively for the -asks involving contact
with the public (car registration,  issuing of licenses, etc.), and for
improved data collection and analysis of basic road transport statistics.
Although a minor item, its rapid implementation is an essential prerequisite
to revitalizing DTT operations.   Some rehabilitt ion of CPTP office and
classroom facilities will also be required to permit trainfng operations to
be launched and carried out effectively.
10.      Technical assistance and consultinx services to DTT (174 person-
months) will be focussed on two broad problem areass pereonnel manazement and
information manakement.   Preparation studies identified urgent personnel
recruitment needs to bring the atrophied DTT staff back to the levels
required to respond to their information and policy guidance mandate.
Technical assistance will, thus, be provided to DTT for recruitment and
training of staff at headquarters and in the regional services. Concerning
information management, the project will support the computerization of the
large volume 'bread and butter" operations such as vehicle registration,
transporter licenses, etc., as well as development of regular statistical
information on road transport. Besides developing data on vehicle fleet size
and characteristics, particular emphasis will be put on building up a road
accident data base. This will provide the foundation for an aggressive road
safety campaign to reduce the presently very high--and increasing, toll of
road accident victims.   Agreement was  reached at nexotiations  on the
essential DTT positions to be filled by March 1, 1991, and on terms of
reference for the technical assistance.



- 96 -
Annex VI
Page S of 12
11.      The most important institutional change the project seeks to achieve
in the road subsector is regular and adequate financing for the correct
maintenance of existing road infrastructure. Through the adIustment yortion
of the Credit which is to be released In three annual tranches of
US$6. 5 million equivalent, IDA will assist Government to introduce the ;licy
changes required to bring budgetary road maintenance allocations up from the
1987188 levels of CFAF 2.5-3 billion p.s. to the extraordinarily high levels
of CFA? 6-8 billion p.a., required over the next four years when the bulk of
the priority salvage program is carried out.
12.      More technical institutional changes mostly concern the transfer of
works execution from force account to private contractors and will be
supported under the investment gortion of the Credit mainly through technical
assistance and training to the public works administration, but also to
medium and small contractors. IDA participation in the FYRSP will cover a
share of US$40.1 million or just under 10% and will finance tha following
components:
(a) Pavement strengthening works on about 100 km;
(b) Paved road resurfacing works on about 250 km;
(c) Regravelling works by contractors on abott 200 km;
(d) Consulting services for:
(i)   supervision of pavement strengthening;
(ii) technical assistance to DTP to establish BGR; technical
assistance to BER to introduce periodic and routine
maintenance management procedures; and
(iii) tech scal assistance to DTT for modernizing road transport
administration and improving road safety;
(e) Technical assistance to the Public Works Training Center (CPTP) and
consulting services for development of training coursos; and
(f) Purchase of light vehicles, measuring equipment for traffic
counting and supervision of road maintenance works, computing and
office equipment for DTP and DTT, and training aids and spare parts
for rehabilitation of training brigade equipment for CPTP.
Railway Subsector: Proarem and Project
13.      This component covers the full range of investments needed to
achieve MINEQ objectives in the railway subsector over the fout-year period
1990-93.  The investment program is designed to:



- 97 -
Annex VII
Page 6 of 12
(a) maintain railway capacity at a level adequate to carry the forecast
traffic efficiently;
(b) enable the railway to meet the annual efficiency targets agreed
upon for the year periodt and
(c) support the management reforms through appropriate training and
technical assistance.
The entire Four-Year Investment Program is estimated to cost about
CFAF 21,430  million  (US$71.4 million  equivalent)   including  physical
contingencies end taxes. Foreign costs represent CFAF 11,485 million; local
costs  account  for  CFAF 5,350  million.        IDA  financing  represents
CFAF 2,021 million equivalent or about one eighth of the total program. (For
details of the financing plan, see Annex VIII).
14.      In the past, investment plans were heavily oriented towards new
railway equipment; by contrast, this program concentrates on intensive track
maintenance, overhaul of locomotives and rolling stock, gad selected works
needed to achieve higher operating efficiency.   Institution building is
etaphasized through training and technical assistance, both of them sharply
focussed on areas of identified weaknesses.   Accordingly, the Four-Year
Railway Investment Program covers six maid groups of investments: (a) track
rehabilitation;  (b)  signalling  and  telecommunications;  (c)  workshop
facilities, machinery, and spare parts; (d) operation facilitation; (e)
general services and training facilities; and (f) technical assistance and
training.
15.      Track rehabilitations The main components of this group include:
(a) track renewal on Thias-Tivaouane (22 km) section, using new rails
from the Canadian grant to improve operation on this link which
carries about 1.8 million tpy of phosphates;
(b) completion of track renewal on 90 km between PK 271 and
Tambacounda, and repair of the remaining 180 km of main line track
from Tambacounds to Kidira.  This involves replacing 25 kg raii
dating from the turn of the century with 36 kg rail from the
Canadian grant and from those released under (a) above on about
90 km. Existing sleepers will be rehabilitated using a reshaping
machine to be procured under the project. Tamping and ballast-
shaping machines acquired for carrying out these works will also be
suitable for later track maintenance.  Ballast will be piocured
locally and distributed by SNCS ballast wagons. The works will be
carried out by an Italian contractor under Italian fitra4cing;
(c) track renewal (including poirnts, turn outs, and signalling over
about 1.5 km) of the 2 main tracks of the Dakar passenger station
outlet, now heavily trafficked since the starting ot the Dakar
suburban commuter service in December 1988 (38 traint  per day).



- 98 -
#Anex VII
Page 7 of 12
16.      Sitnallint and Telecommunications:  Besides the renewal of the
signalling system of the 2 main tracks of the Dakar passenger station 'para
15 (c) abovs), the major components of this group ares
(a) the replacement of the traditional overhead coTnmication line by
a multi-pair cable on the vital Thies-Tivavouane section In order
to improve communication reliability and complete the already
cabled system of the Dakar-Thias section;
(b) the installation of a ground-train radio link system on the Thies-
Tambacounda section to provide better traffic control and safety
for the long-distance train operation; and
(c) a   maintenance   contract   for   the   whole   signalling   and
telecommunication system of SNCS to be awarded to a specialized
company.
17.      Workshop. Machinery and Spare Parts: Based on the manufacturer's
schedule, heavy maintenance and overhaul of BB 1600 and GM 2200 locos fall
due during this program period. These major overhauls need a larger than
normal input of spare parts for which SFCS lacks financial resources.
Consequently, the project will supplement spare parts provision for the
overhaul p-igram.   Technical supervision and shop-floor guidance will be
provided either by traditional expatriate assistance or by specialized firms
under maintenance contracts. Also, in order to improve MTTR (Mean Time tx
Repair) of rolling stock, and reduce dismantling operations and unproductive
movements of locos and wagons, the project will finance an under-floor wheel
reshaping lathe, as well as limited rehabilitation of the Dakar depot now in
charge of the maintenance of the 5 locos permanently devoted to the urban
comiter serv.a.  A one 100-ton rail-crane will be purchased under the
project to provide the capacity for speedy clearing of the line in case of
major derailments on the 950 km network. Finally, 25 second-hand passenger
cars will be purchased from SNCF and rehabilitated for replacement of
existing passenger cars, repair of which is uneconomic.
18.      Operation Facilitation: This group consists of four separate works
all located on the Dakar-Thies section which is expected to reduce the wagon
turn-around time by shout 4 days and avoid unproductive movements of
locomotives in the Dakar-Bel Air area; its detailed evaluation will be
carried out by the cofinancing agency.
(a) Construction of a loop in the Bel Air marshalling yard will speed
up the marshalling operations and reduce the need for shunting
locos, while construction of a service station will reluce
unproductive movements of locomotives presently obliged to return
to the Dakar depot for refuelling and technical inspection.
(b) The creation of marshalling facilities in Thies will allow train
composition to be performed in Thies, leading to a better
utilization of motive power given the fact that loaded wagons of



- 99 -
Annex VII
Page 8 of 12
international traffic could be hauled up to Thios, by north-bound
mineral trains hauling empty wagons.
(c) Finally, automatic weighing machines to be installed at the south
and north outlet of the port complex will prevent overloading of
wagons and consequential damages and reduce claims for alleged
shortages and disputes with customs over inadequate customs
declarations.
19.      General Services and Training Facilities: Investments in this group
cover computers, furniture, tools, and some dSlactic equipment for the
training center, the accounting and the procurement departments.
20.       Technical Assistance and Trainina: This group includes two segments
of technical assistance$
(a) A training support segment to update the course lecture notes in
the technical areas and train the Senegalese trainers; and
(b) A management support segment to provide support to the new
management in certain key areas, in particular marketing, cost-
accounting and information services.   In addition, this group
includes the cost of some scholarships and hursaries for management
level staff to attend short-term management courses and seminars.
Port Subsector: Program and Pro1ect
21.       This component covers the full range of investments required over
the next three years to improve road and rail access to the new container
terminal, keep existing infrastructure in efficient working condition, renew
selected equipment, and ensure the technical assistance needed for full
implementation of the Action Plan.  It also finances studies defining the
medium- and long-term role of Dakar and secondary ports. Depending on the
results of an ongoing DANIDA financed study of grain-import handling
facilities (Pier IV), a project for their improvement may be included in the
investment program in later years. The cost of the overall program for the
port subsector is estimated at CFAF 10,822 million (US$36.1 million
equivalent) inclding physical contingencies and taxes, with a foreign
exchange component of CPA? 4,972 million or 46S. The civil works, equipment
renewal, technical assistance and studies subcomponents ae described in more
detail below; IDA participation in port subsector financing is limited to
part of the technical assistance component in support of completing the
financial and operational reforms of PAD.
22.       The civil works component is estimated at CFAF 7,898 million and
covers three subcomponents, to be appraised in detail by the cofinancing
agencies:
(a) Improvement of road access to the new container terminal. Heavy
truck traffic to and from the container terminal presently feds



- 100 -
Annex VI1
Page 9 of 12
directly into already heavily congested urban center roads. This
congestion is worsening with the steady development of container
traffic. New access will, therefore, be provided to the east of
the northern breakwater, outside the existing port boundaries.
Fill surfaces will provide additional space for storage of empty
containers and new parking areas for trucks and container trailers.
Rail access will also be modified to better serve container
traffic;
(b) Minor rehabilitation works of aprons and roads within the port
required to facilitate storage and proper traffic flow within the
port area; and
(c) Major rehabilitation of the aging utility networks of the port
(water, electricity supply, telecoumunications).
23.      E@uipment renewal and maintenance covers floating equipment (2 pilot
launches end 1 berthing launch), service-vehicles; fire detection and
fighting equipment; and some tools and spare parts, for a total amount of
CFAF 1,678 million.
24.      Technical Assistance and Trainint will continue and complement
technical assistance provided under the Dakar Container Port Project which
established and began Implementation of an Action Plan to Improve PAD
financial and operational management. The project focusses on monitoring and
Implementation of remaining changes under the Action Plan and compliance with
the operational objectives of the 1990 Contrat-Plan between PAD and
Government. A total of 90 p-m of technical assistance will be provided to
PAD fori
(a) preparation of a long-term development plan for data processing
systems including provision of computer equipment and specialized
programs;
(b) reorganization of PAD maintenance activities;
(c)  establisbment of a rehabilitation program for buildings, civil
works, and equipment; and
(d) improvement of PAD manpower planning and dovelopment. Training
would be provided to PAD senior management as required.  Also,
technical  assistance  would  be  provided  to  the  customs
administration to help streamline documentation and procedures.
The estimated cost of this component is CFAF 950 million.
25.      Studies: The long-term development of port facilities requires a
planning guide. To this effect, FAC is financing a master plan study of the
porct of Dakar. The Association will review Its findings and agree on the
future strategy for development with PAD. Concerning the secondary ports of



- 101 -
Annex VII
Page 10 of 12
St. Louis, Kaolack and Ziguinchor, there is a need to assess their future
role before embarking upon new investments or rehabilitation. The project
finances a study of the role and options for the secondary ports. It vill
deteuiine the economic fossibility of investments needed to keep them
operational and, if so, recommend the appropriate form of their future
administration. The proposed studies are estimated to cost CFAF 405 million.
Civil Aviation Subsector: Program and Prolect
26.      The civil aviation sub-sector program addresses the need for
institutional reform, as well as meeting the most urgent requirements to
assure reasonably safe operations. The condition of the domestic airport
system has deteriorated due to lack of proper maintenance occasioned by
inadequate funding.   The national  domestic airline, AIR SENEGAL, has
initiated a program to achieve financial autonomy through Improved marketing
of its services and strict control of costs and needs support in developing
and implementing an operational and financial Action Plan. The cost of the
program for the civil aviation subsector is estimated at CFAF 5,770 million
(US$19.2 million equivalent) including physical contingencies and taxes, with
a foreign exchange component of CFAF 3,590 million (622).
27.      To meet immediate operational infrastructure requiroments, the
project includes remedial civil works and provision or replacement of
essential equipment, as detailed below:
(a) Lengthening (to 1,600 m), widening (to 23 a) and strengthening the
runway, and related works at the retional airport of CaD Skirrina,
where existing characteristies are no longer suitablo to present
traffic. The condition of the paved areas has become dangerous and
could constitute a threat to the area's growing tourist industry;
(b) Lengthening and strengthening the aircraft manocuvering areas at
the retional airport of Ziiuinchor and related civil works. The
paved areas have been poorly maintained for many years due to a
lack of funding. The runway Is also too short for the aircraft
types utilizing the airport. The project will Include repairing,
strengthening, and lengthening the runway by 200 m to 1,545 m;
rehabilitating  and  strengthening  the  apron  and taxiway,  and
improving the runway drainage system; and
(c) Adequate separation of high performance jets and smaller, slower
private and business class of aircraft at Dakar-Yoff International
airport is necessary for the safety of aircraft operations and to
minimixe  costly  delays.       The  project  provides  for  the
rehabilitation of runway 04-22 by repairing, levelling, and
overlaying the existing runway for the use of smaller aircraft.
28.      To provide officient and safe operations, the following equipment
needs to be renewed:



- 102 -
Annex VII
Page 11 of 12
(a) The arrivals hall at Dakar-Yoff airport is inadequate for
processing incoming passengers in a satisfactory and expeditious
manner. The Government has taken steps to incrase the size and
arrangement of the facility to improve the level of service. The
project includes the provision and installation of new bagage
handlina equipment to replace the existing worn out machinery;
(b) The provision of fire-fighting vehicles and material for the
domestic airports is included in the project to asaure a basic
level of protection to passengers in the event of on-airport fires.
(c)  Suitable, reliable electronic aids to navigation and cownunications
eouipment are vital to the safe and efficient conduct of air
operations.   This equipment has a limited life in the African
environment, compounded by poor availability of spare parts for
older equipment generally and lack of funds to procure spare parts
when they are available.   Replacement of equipment must be
programmed on a regular basis. The project, therefore, includes
procurement of High Frequency-Single Side Band (HF-SSB) and Very
High Frequency (VHF) equipment for point-to-point and air-ground
communications   In addition, procurement of electronic navigation
aids, such as Non-Directional Beacons (NDB) and Very High Frequency
Omni Range (VOR) equipment, is also included in the project; and
(d) The provision of adequate and reliable electrical, and emergency
stand-by, power is necessary for the continuous operation of
communication and navigation facilities to meet air operational
requirements. The project includes provision or replacement of
electricity teneratina eauivment required by, and suitable to the
activity of, individual airports.
29.      To form the basis of a comprehensive domestic air transport plan,
the project includes:
(a) a study to analyze and make recommendations with respect to
realistic market expectations for AIR SENEGAL and the optimm size,
type, procurement, and operational regime of the aircraft fleet
most suitable to these markets together with an aggressive
marketing program.   An evaluation will also be made of AIR
SENEGAL's financial structure to arrive at recommendations for a
suitable   plan  of   action  with   particular   attention   to
capitalization, transfer payments, treatment of debt, and budget
preparation. Some technical assistance will be provided to assist
in implementation of the plan; and
(b) to complement the AIR SENECAL evaluation, a study to examine
airport management and make recommendations regarding the ASECNA
Senegal's financial, budgeting and mamagement structure with
emphasis on cost center financial reporting and management, budget
preparation and evaluation by cost-benefit analysis, staffing



- 103 -
Annex VII
Page 12 of 12
levels, and cost analysis. Particular attention will be given to
facility planning with respect to capital, maintenance and
replacement cost financing requirements against cost recovery and
amortization. Technical assistance will be provided to establish
the financil accounting and reporting systems required and for
preparation, analysis and evaluation of cost center and system
budgets. Specific study will be made f the type and level of fees
and charges for all services and facilities enjoyed by airport
users, the method of application, and the recovery of delinquent
accounts. The objective is to develop, operate and maintain the
facilities and amenities required to meet AIR SENEGAL's operating
requirements on the domestic routes at a sound, agreed upon,
consistent and cost-effective level of service. The main goal will
be to have a financing plan wholly compatible with Government
policy, AIR SENEGAL's competitive position and a financially
healthy  and  efficient  ASECNA  operation.    Detailed  terms  of
reference of the studies have been agreed at appraisal.



*gg          op      tiers          Owv: !  9m4.       fw        "0e      " ,     "WV  fte   i  wwt    t Iq o "Ot me   tow   slow    Ometet  .l ot     _        ww 6St"    S        4  o w 5 am
. 1tl   ,V *q                                                  Wc*1  e   .r" n           r.p    tc 09IOU emwt a.'r        n                                                      poIe m 5tf <9    £  *s*w Ym
S.. I   MI9    *j;, p0                                 4101    J6f I       SGI   3115       off    1906   tIM       flIt   -.       aqq Om          "                             16   sg1
.. ,   68       0     wt   0         0       0 °   e oa                           w        wa      m       tus     qs*w us         MU    1         **'                                      *tt
- -s "t w# ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onOO l ant    l o w  zZ                                                   I"t"s    sm    lotz                                   evi I  to I"
r.                                                               (39       1129  e93   O313   O*    OflS    9810   ;66                -               .w  e   tt                0 131 #53 9*              *
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                C"        gm      O                    e                    t#to   MO CP                          Ct   ttt Cns * "  we
< o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .............. ......... ...................... ................. .............. ,.,  .......... -._ ....
.o st  tX on    .t t °o   tue   o                                                                                                *    *    *fi  _
.    o                4.             e        ou         fs oG O                   mt c    set n o    got                  a       9U Ut  O I    A" lI-I"
few    0      0       Wu    o        0         19                 cm               Omss  cs        sn                6    g                   t                                      *
960£    °     O USt,S C                         t          Cegm  ttq;   0  0                                                 -0 of"  OM.  tel g sugm  tw  0  gm  tm iaS
$U                                                                         n    IO                 i tt  O6      0X E 6*1    a4, etl g  " t *  6    e   *  te    t   *no  *
SW                 ..." e            °                            "to    v  "st"t us  t    m  ts   a  a     t1      0       *       an                                       on
!tt! ° ° ° || O t#Ct.....      ........ I.........        !           . t. -.----.-w   ....................... . . . . .   .   . .. . 
a    O   O           wO,   o         a    e uss         te        5       PuN      I aot          60"       Uso    a       $48     On      of               I        m r1l9 a
viv     o     a        eo o          0        9         on o       *1      t                                        m         e    us                                                            U
tm  to                                                         P=O=~~~~~~swm 
6312t  a  o  watt   tees;  10  eus;  9385  gout   1066    *gm    a"   1*iI     -      us                  w  Gm
U06 0         0       tIt    ga      0    o 52          £93   UCt,   wet           wo         a    wep   O06   ULC   U1            8*       MU                             39   26-16-56          16
*5 o   a       tell   woi   o9         as9        MS       wh1, O          tmus     e       "M       036    so      Ae*      no*    Om~                                     '"
6    ee  e° °o2 o  .t    0                      I.       CI .tel l c6               atI e M t"0Vn   t*  o    M    WI    gm          Met "agWVaiIw 4t
~~~~~.... .. ....   .,...... .................. ....... ... ...... ..... ............ ...... .................................................. .. ._.
onP5    0     0       if      441    0        ust       98        S4t   SU         036      us   at         16                      Ms
el                                                                                                               -.       -      -                       .Nlt  .6,4gm                  06
u9            a       WC    W1ei   0           "It6     161        mttl                                                                     II
0             *       *s      60              oni       195        el     U         *1     *5       m        a Ng- Waasw*atnqtq                                                                   06
1539    0  0    0       DU 049 lw       VIAt      Act        .1t te           a;, 55           o         t    .                596                                      VA891I*S            9M
AM.....-- on  in A- "M "W "M                                                                                                        am an
915   0    0             1151    0        9195      gsI       03      A6       M1gt   Sig       01      a                      o       O
OCig                          wig0  m                   g s, ot   uPM    osu       *M1    an       "St    in        32     91       -      ..
MI3     0                    59 0             (Wi        of       0316    an       m5e   0          Ms;    Ott    0        gm      Gm9      fMl                         "9PW                      SO6 63
or     0A     0  0            0      0        09         I         W3     0        03      0       0         0      3       0       *       0."*I
Ua6     0    0        0       0       55      Vice       of       lost   on.       616 0           50        t               56 31           0                               U        61.3 99
.......... ...gi. $0 &. na
a9*            0               Pe23i   et                   miV   w;;       M91     0       691              0       gm2    65       16      ~      M   PM @91*16-031  "MAI
ssqt    0  0   ~~~0     o       06;      o0w1      St        Ifo;   Ke        661    0        66;     tit    *        41M             *131         i  Mwa  pt @t3         sot16" *6   M
CPIJM  wtol            wict ~              ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ssiinauo 
WM= 7R=WT,U i9*0*               m @111 R9*0*MU WW11jmy                            mnw



..     ........*p n.....  l**    ....    *... .............................................................                   .                                     ..       ... 
w "14 n0                             i
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  W
no    0    0         0       0                "         la 08  1                   an 4iSW                 I"      go      WV       a      SWBWUJ
aimM an amm melam -ri1
o;$                   0      St      0         it                 so1     0                                                                                                           no9   S 86 8  A lU
11114111 s -  mim -ios             IN ON
4018                          two     o        6                  on      0        6118    0   r            on      0       68    Ws    8a               101111S0  1w t I i         e t No_w
96  0   0      ~~      ~~~~0 99  0       69        9         4      0        9       6       IN       41      9       99             9                                          *6amM
Slt o*6,   0         O16    O66    19*  0     *091      05        O     t 0                °1St   606    3*06    066    *5  98     toO     _*5                               oO, vail ass1w
I6  o68    go                                                                                         Om46 O8 is3onnwe                                                 iss     ami  stu M *m
tns oM-                                                                                                                                                                    0    JI     u     tg o   Z   n oo" w  Mt  ^Uev 
0  e         nos GM    "   e"S   0     0         tw       on        $11               I              "i   *           an u 91 s              4111        z        xt od  W"Bgm
9-I                                                                                                                                                        I nxSminW. amW UPUS a             ilSo o    Vs   53g
I        g'    m   UKw    gm1    gm     m       O&Ms    tam&        Wm*5    meP    £.a,01  *           ato"0   LOW    sa.w    Omi    OMn                         In       090339WtU-a.
NW       e    01       Pt    PS           lw   e     "  40t       gmso    jusot    an          0   tot     GM                      all                                                          S
*91   391   661    6te    601   e90           1*1       WtUo *361 661              Utt|  0        0*1      031    UrnS   6         031    860                                      66*) t        1
460*    0585  OtIS    OtIS    SleOt   5006    *5101    6055       8*  Xt11         1331  O         4639    4818   OW       6664   Sit   3690                                6103.63 036g "  Is 611
~~~~~~~~to-too   wo             gm  *ws            tv"      FI        gcn   a sr up  _ M              am      am      am    "a           t         _xmo                   mn e  a_t t^*
...  .................. ........ ........................k. .............. .................... .. ,.... .... ............ ............ -  - ------. _.
0e0     0    0        am  C91    0            41        on         0      I9N      Om69    S0      "a       a1n8  Wo       no       131                        Sp- 9t   s 3'tt6W'36   I   96
""    0    0          0*e    *pic   0         gu*t       "    t     0     g9m      6 06             9"      MN    on       NW    6m           6it- qt-  Sw   f6.aJo                     o '     9gm
140   0o      9 t got 9      0       *        16065    9OO        £tWI   46        Otl3   So"    wit   4140049 A"          Sim5 41% 6i04-                        9 *-*$           ft            6613 '    WM
am5    0      1969   it"t *          0         16 a33I60*6 in        me                    00311511            960    6    655    16mg6311 60109t  wo 6j401, f$6   ts66d69'   Om
tt 5a o   0             t o g                  mg 61 nUs9           *"t   '        out   oW        am      "It   9          8"1                              - . 9*6303)0116 0    so *3  6
01  O         0    o 1       o   C0            918      66        661   e6         5**   8tS       9*1   _9         3      6               13            903'- 66W   StgUu  - 8 6
mg0    0         0   met1                     6090 S Om  N        gm4    UP        9501   0 all             9 Mpg-a"0                      OUP                    £WU      emU6 3    636qam I   44113
"a3    0     0       0       0       UPS      £18       be        1608   so        gm5             0an      UP     0       no30 O          aS             063 W 196-6    6656 "-"                s
.. .. . .... .. . ............... .. .. ..... ... ...... .... .... ............................ ...............................................  ..... ...... ......
181 0     00             0       on's      Ws0    19          son6   00        46*              8L       6              W        W     3        I SW'Sp    6W  0:646-66  We"" VW
t  t  g tZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0931 636" tD   's1n*3  *U   066506
0 ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      a1 a> Su9a   wnzt It^z                           Aw^"   tAt 49U  WI0qlU
t lst _ s:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aonowmus:w  3n totu    _tO^>
WIOL  9*1   3*6    1036    tOOt    0605 11I    5318    1560    060M   W6AV   13AV5   USIA4  'WAS RWiVI   I *S =
MSO    o  gwsonn atna S3 M*            9W019A*V        695)               -91016   463   @14"
ant5i"           W610            '0114              0010
515_  ,                                       11                  T .                        _
9651101   dWW   ~4at        W  dWi    .WA



0'.....   ............................................................................                                                                                             ...................
eto                            et9cis to  w       t,      .           I;          tot         *        ui         Ogg      go        on       it69;m m   metU1366P11 10000IU6W
--09 -  9 -----     -- --    --------   -- ---        ------     -----   .....     ....      ......         .....   ....       ....      ...£..6 6                                          W     0 1   U0
"Io                                                                                                               ...9 ~   'i    ...  ...     ...... .....*  9~,ew6.6~
666               561       141      49       *W          01          669         0        10         w1       un        6*       of       it~:
gm1                                                        gmgj pU    I'           gm                   atW       a"       65          1      It        on
so9                  99       96                  4         6         to           09          9       6,          s       stes  U at0G1toIq6w  - eseL 4001MVAN  U
546                        516      69        568        96           61£         64       gp M                 9       6.9      69        .9                                  9b#996-w1919¶    ,
56£                           59       1~~~~~~~9                                              us60196  6 1  an   to        tei       1111    so"''                                         toO*S,
606                        19       66~~~~~~~~~4  go     9                                 I00066     off      96                 a 4      66n9,
tog       96         6,       59         66       I        .956       666                      -------t                    64          e      'a                    ~umnamrU    '5.
gig     5         0          1            4         0         599tg*                                                                                                      as   s    w'
9"             99         9                                          oil 16 a                                                                                          of  00
#44      0          o         as       to         i         ,                     se          6          g        on       1          a  giW                                                    wwa. 9S'-iS
591~~~~~~s    got 6 to                                "a                   us6   96    64 UV                                 46   OR    Mt'~A~4   ~   ~
set  ful~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qswfltgU
301           19       *9        515        4            £01        0         W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  66o   85 SO          as        .9"   g
SIt                            am49                        41                       16        0         66        06       16        0        41m    t
.....0.. ........9......0. ......  to .6.... grit .... mt$            soft514
696                        966       tot~~~~~~~..  .......     .......       0.5a                     946      "a                           wa6s5
8696            Ill~Og   Cott      4666                          opt 49  *    #M0        n6o      t6op       Om0                          on1099 tg  04                         IP     S901
0                                     "is                                     I I-~~~~~@56000369   an Os I*--   9
m                              ot        P91        9~~~~~~~~9 5OSS1 ~          d~UUUA1dUAdQ                                                                    'Amg
to                        WS        of          t                                                    o f61 o  ttNg     to"ifewmw
5LW161    UL 55   15IUW ei5   INLI',   4Kfl1   U       6~dAIRU mUu                                    Ott6rg   W JS"                     0006eatII-ofeYL-ftS
IYSOU   dO"         "c        ses0U                "t      11 U



*61
..110 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~w1600
0@ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~99
6 600   00  6 Uoz    I gas I1S, 41    £w Ii '1m91      @10't     111sos0  9,1(0    l-obt     5*96   g        gumsl"     0"no   slowig 
* poll  0 0     6 got   I 191   (19      9 a9?   01991    a,"         I "so1  *09o    V096) VI 5669               slow    won 6 6   fif    4~dSU A9U1SV 
o le              ttsa 0 *~06     of    * of    flow        ea         Un      @0       0*69    0£S   09 a         O11   @*iK1   @0                                   USIIVI@
0Go                                     00        *         8        001       00      @0 es     0 Go     1      09       a3    96                                    61'         to1 
at*            0 09    00of    0 OS    1,016 *        011   6        0a Om    @0       006      SlO      @*      4611    019     0*6                                        ''"   t
604                     t1 601                   ii        ao        em O         0    061t      @1       I        0     II      IS                             O11)    S61)l
0 GO                                     06of6    ta        e* a      66    6      00   *0       Va3   rOw        **. ft  Wa    Al at
to             q 0    q VI     6e * 6  0 5    I 969        @1        *pOl"     096     t 44 000   *s       "In    @616   OlS    slim                                              St"~'**5
.... .......9 44      6 199    9 Vs,   1069               ........  -0 1W.'O 1911     91 --------*a69     8-*14- 9896m --- -------- --------1AJUS   8
6946        6~~~~q09    00   59I9f      C 9(6  *6      *5It       99  9 16t 6s916t               t 691  a1    @1*1   600      00                                        91106
0(6                              119It    aIUs'   9 a"      968       a06      6619       '"     0169 *16 @6    I'6l"    1616    *in                                996661=969  16
9 9198  0       0 @       en    6 Ws*61    J416   o 9106    0 got    0' Om    9*Ig      9,614    9 1*91  906 19    i 91966   5166            "wpm 1  gA n 2r3   .loom ss*011119,
'mu                          9 m      ~~~~      ~~      ~~~~~~ ~~~~9 to  9  0 we66   ea  rn 9506 no6    9 M1   6161   Olt"   *0qs96   910i91
I9191                   6 cot   (*8*    9 (It   0 cut1    0 61        0 6051    Go 11     "VI 969  mu3  691on       m    *US 041 a 9*                         61W   9*        P    son
I 14*                            6099    (6       661 g      06       09we       go6    110 so    019a  966    6116   6119   191                      956on6' 16666 61   I'6?1 U I    I
O C0D"   0 0    a 0     9 Irv9   I %,V.  069 O  I   9099    1 el!     0 9109    0 9      no0    lo 96 0661    *£.    651 ,aUU                                 3     3*1)  96-6602
A 9061                  0 96   6 no5   6 sag   0 S9W    69 Ot         9 £61   I*get    I 9064   6*16   6956   em    e't.    W0!P*inf"6 is 6'O1.llf91qu  1
a am0                           (9(      0 0006 O (6(a6a    v £01    90  6   * 80       I an 6   n6o9  6law    990616  196*91   8063                      114 6wnv '16e anbWW   INt
.   ....   ....    ..    .     .........   ........  -------  .......  . ...  .   .....  .   .....   ......
wool    WWI talf"t ral'.661 fAilhas 16to"l  0017  10101  im  MD  not   W1301    ""A   I 0 I   on, miD
W*0I   1019101  9aIro.o; Ve1oA5  61SAeI  59141641  0o5  180)w    03)u  MI))9   61161   66)61   11911   W11* 3)1
01180         16*0*suo           11*I
IAdS AL  3  wM8155*111 JJpLN33IV.   NNVWluWd -  waJuad J1J3IUOS301I/DIURIJI O                m 1*3  riaW0N
iluiNiS dO ~NUI5iW



~~~11Ih.                                                                                                          WV 0* J'* 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ico    " 
a,,          0                      I 0 o's   313S    00 *I           0 0       0en    0          en *99  a    09on    00f   owe as339939U9
%Fe1                         I to    S 39    I 33    3 I      *961    0 0      * SDI   0 0      *663     03   0933s   10,1    009                       "d   9S  *voed
1 401  0 (W 0 at 0 evo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01wg 1 9 P3 3
013o300    0   00     ow "   @93"    0 0     6 003    a8       0ell    0 0      06131    0 0     0613s;ol       Olen **33     **R w*'36        ftAin31"o0low   4401011
0 913                 0 0    0  et6  90 of    CA00                               I01113    00    o*0196   0*0   0*'      03    011£9tnl 
@6m*                  0             06       91Igo    93t       ona      0      066      0       91061  @63t  '009       0's    O'            "0
00 9190          0                 0 0    0    10 9       Wt      609a   0 a0    a9    el0          993   969    0109    elf    0916                   **99@U0j9f
O @0 0        a 009    u 0 0    e9 01    00  0 0a"    * a     9 on9   00        966     010      9'09 96          93     9      09**             0910 03  3909 33
00      9                                    001      033 e g       109  0 0    099m    Ol0    0991   06        009l    09      0 o
0098  00                                      tol;      et    *081    0 0       0us    00e       Well  409      @9    010       0e"
09 s      34                  9366           9*36    3o 93    @0 m    0 0       10lw    010      90l3w   906    0-sowI 066    0969-
0393                      0*03 *0IN         of'    * is    0691    0 0       09      0 0     0*33   096 00  0        019    0'S0 
3991600  00  00  LW.  16033   39033    9303~~~~~~1  0 " *90     3 0016  *16   9 0 *  "99   Wi91   66*3    6`919   *`49319
Sisa0*                         el3  103a    619       93 &      0      0 0      A0       00s0 0           0     606 a663 else                       av3v) wet-a.vI0ostrm
a30      *96     306    103 got  1   09610 IM 308    S)3   1Ws             $got* 11)89*1  tog1*9   AlsoWd  30644   gmfWd 090 t  1O                        t             oe
it  9i                     I 90  W30fi3r.u gtq  lwwelv 91, ,0I e   V     9       be   itp.3au   gm6  1011 S" ms.O                                   4=                "
rn3'o43  33306  wilma   Wa9a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
.    ... 3  .. .   . .   . . . . .  . .. . . .. .  . .. . .. ..0. . . . .I- - -  .. .
Vogot  "et t"l   0^1    161    am*  Va  polv   P40     . I(" ig        11" ii'M                    .S W    0111
lilim Sol"wmsuo k*13Jw dI0     V 1 SUV AW    swvIA1 Wd      vi
filmI%v  wofon? fli SL po ?""    ilil151WAIV      9WIlop.$ ,U             NW9WU   MNIU6   OITA"IIIMULUTW         19  IdN



3c
*         t    usV                            on La                                                                                                 s
o n nt . *       9      o      &                                        no
o~~~~~4.                   Og     an 1 "                          Ls                                                                                     VA- -I; 11gi
*    e       u,         S      5 mt oP nS                                                                                                                a _   Om
*~~~~~am CC c  "g  out                             VAO B
0W       *       to   P        m isiuo                                                     Om
gm     orsis,4    ans          sa              Om  ns
mmW    one    eSW       e      m 59,5ON                                                                                                q..m,.u,
o° u#t,  wo         90     on  tu           _       w      Om 
go                                                         o  w"-|""S 
*w      mgV                                                                                                                                           2  asS    gasl   an0    on  SalN  f  N  SW. iU   p91
lam     esox,                          -. am  act   we  J"                                                                                              In
Mg     soil    ties            en                            at, 11- gv)11                                                  N                            U
o   pa     *       ~      ~~ 0                             issOtsi,                                                      05
ISi     low5   slt      Ii act         on5    OI                SWg0m                                                                                 i
Oms    COM                                                                                     11 "a  iN  "t  MW
10M30  Is u    WOO isN is          weV                           mm  1W3W141W*W
-   ute     pi       MV.o Wen       iv                   wiffis    mguts - i Sat Ii    U MI U     ON..



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                                                                           V
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                          ~.... ...... .................................--.-
C,^
e   taCX  N111  t,  °l ttW . " ; ""at w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1100943
|~~~~~t ce sc S^   /s                              t¢    w                                                                                                                      An 680  ONtl3
3~~~a                  lot  utirts  eI'M                                ucl       on                                         "I t
Ctt {"C Ctt$it  O                       en         t        O'gt                                   e                                                                  9o I   _
*|StisW   NM    gC§" $ C£t             ml      oWe"                  cm                                                                                                                    WA
o *: *  *  t R . 
e         on$       we        ow                                              not _l 00                                                                                                   04_ 0 
....     n  .   r  . n.         ,       .      n  .   .  .       .           .   ....                                                               -  .                .-. ...  ...  . . ....__.... ...
6 11       s       £ 101 n011 r. too        e      _                      * "                                                                                               i4 W a
s         vonIs     O'       le       It        off                                                                                                    U                       d,  UU    *
tO    ast                 set       o                                  e 
o    *        :w        1100   p01S       p         p                                                                                             9                         6    U    6
son *66        t        ties6   *0i       16I      SW                    nip                                                                                                     in  mi
*             twuo     ie0 *I                                                                                                                                                             iongas *me  ~2 0     413
a0         661 .                                                                                                                                       of6to
*  641686  aI  0            0*1 o66*,
59610              ~~0*                                                  a             w  Wu1-      on   O                                                         116 a
_                _ a                                       91                                                                                                   ..P6,
WEDS~~ WDW WDS
~ t~IW4  69101 ----   --  -----------  --.                                                 ..
.........      J                                                ...........................................-........... . ..... . .                            ..   .    .......5. .........
.WN5£ ....................................................     ...........
(Om I'm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- _   a@a'-.: -o*-A; -- -- --
*i    .-i Zl           - -.*
lioot**     oovoooo  ** ;            . 
K-o oooiioltotoeto  
t    iWEt
'8  oeovooeOOOOO    
I§=eoovX-§vt Lg   _
1I1o I     !StilsS ii 
I5Oo4i     ollo  J!ozo Ri    
I ijXtLsIis.Iiii;2 s.If i    I"|8 i; i                                           l
,                                I.|a*.H  UP  2r|t"lEX    ,$,3A
IE{X*WVgi0",s  . 



3*                            C
*0   iiii!e£e           C'e  C -
*        ' i.- -..          -   N 1
"      ]!i      2                       t                    {el~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~utna,,-,.
.         i       2           ,1       1        ,    a;           F
a                             *~~~~ p        S  -* 
5-~~~~~~ *                                  S                  Cg  Z
,.~ ~ j s     j::  **nttc*. Iii



- 113 -                                                        Annex VII£
Pase 9 of 9
cnnTL AVnAs armm
' .wn.1Pa  nt fatal Piaeu  f                         w*.
,_._._ ...... ._....I----. |................ .  I........... 1.... t.............. _._ ....... . ... . .                       .........................
I   -~~~~~~*0 -a
:*41  4w      P       - C.."t b z:g_         I   t   E I             I I                    I  110.4                I I              6  .M1      0   O  IS  3a10      ..6*
{Z _. ^ ............ - *.-*. ^ I  0t.e..i......g. (&.IU-                                                              -. I  --.-           I                     . ........
*ja    Se . *.San,. *  .o.  042              I                       ,                           ,,,2    ::I6416                                                       .
lAB    _,.e.n.. t      .t.OSw    w     *k  1-.5                                                              1                                 SUi.o.30 a             !-I' *
a?st    .. Ut.     _*@w  4w                                                                                        I                9  a I 61.  3]         2  5
gAI B ... _ ..__...._.I _.. *s*X   ...a                                 .       .        . . . s .                                              .
I    MA                            I                                                                  3         .*
410 65...  &d..sol-- 0..l..            I                I M.          lI              I                                              ' IIi                 .   .. 4a
lASS   5.46  d..S            .    .g     I                                                                                         1.1                    23        .4
j**~*~4...*l.*.*4 ...                           ......
002525 IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .0i
..._ .. _......... 4  __1.....,_  ....... t_11_|. ... .. .... ....                                .............



IBRD 20880
S E N  E G A L                                     T      k                M        A    U    R   I  T   A    Nw I   A                                                       MAURITANIA              MAU
TRANSPORT SECTOR                                           ToNovokchot                                                                                                                 U  r
ADJUSTMENT PROJECT                                                                         -d-- ---ROAMEIA-A¢                                                                                                         N
HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR                                                                                                                                                 T aAMBLA
f gNT STRENGhENNg PROGRAM,                                      \..                                                                                                                 L T               P BURKINA FASO I,.j
lake Gal"e"                                                                                               BISSAU~    GUINEA  (':(BM 
PAItT A                                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L)
PART TAr 0,                                                                                                                                                                                              iU'EENINv
_ PARTFED                                           NLnEON, S                                                                                                                                  IERRVolAt GHANAI C     i
EXISTING PAVED ROADS                  T  LOI                                                                          Hore-Fc e                             16/     ArLANTIC            LIBEfRA-                TOGO
GRAvet ROADS                             Boro e                                                                                                                             OCEAN
EARTH ROADS
I I I I RAILROADS                                                                                       LIU
RIVERS               Tep Geo u,                                                               G loo'             ons"0-)......................... I12U
13 REGION CAPITALS                        o  G       OUGA
- NAT0NAL CAPITALS        T'Ougow                                _
_ _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARiES          D;ahm                                               Csab  U   eW/                              ~        /           L     )!.
Mboro- S-Me,>         kh   D¢We          M ..sfooru                                                                                      \,                        Salhborry
M'b.Yedk  Koo  T 0                 Bobo              dndy             8 Bgo
DAKARM  Rub;)  b~~~Nolo oNd       ba OURBEt    u                    oDiago.               4;, °  fr0                                                                       '                         to Mgora
S"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
/tiwvdicy              9DekhooT Ii                _-b}         Dorou -                                                                                 Ktdirr,                            N
N C,AkA.Nh Fonuorre           AL8                                  be/k"
'' O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d CFA    P /                                                  no'.. -                                           I)'  3  
4R    )°MoUolobel   e   GN9°i    ._   N'dlarereBorra  /                          l                         \   J~~~~ tTo               oroko
oKorea9 KeurAlrwssonc_edie    _N                            AW                       / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eN oloKeb
BAlg'vt                   N HdE  G  A      B  I A  4.-s-                    IT..bGUiI    N '.2                                       K
GUINEA - - BI  IA
N'wo    Fo  .am   /ev                                                                   J                                     ,%
OCEAN~~~                      IW                     Ts Kormder.dio         IQKussn 
J 2wN'diomel L Deb ^Mokc sc,wc e I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARI 18
CapL         T        *N E                                  A B I A
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    NK** K,*o   UIN  
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar_t._od                                         r-.  
MILE                                                                               I O.                        0Mao                                                                           s-Y



