Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20620
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(27950; 22660; 22661)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 52.6 MILLION (US$68.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROGRAM
June 22, 2000
Transport Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = CFAF
CFAF 1 = US$ 0.33
US$ I = CFAF 300
FISCAL YEAR
January December
ABBRENIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager/Director:   Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:   Jean-Noel Guillossou



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                 31
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                               32
Annex 10 Transport Companies; Selected Performance Indicators                       35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002342                                       Project Name:TRANSPORTSEC.SECAL
Team Leader: Jean-Noel Guillossou                         TL Unit: AFTT2
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: June 22, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT SEC. SECAL                           L/C/TF Number: 27950; 22660; 22661
Country/Department: SENEGAL                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways; TP - Ports & Waterways; TW -
Railways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/16/87                                 Effective:                    02/28/92
Appraisal:  05/30/88                                  MTR:                       02/28/95
Approval:  06/13/91                                Closing: 12/31/97             12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT OF SENEGAL/MIN OF EQUIP AND CONCERNED TRANSP
PARASTATALS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward V. K. Jaycox, Regional V. Pres.
Country Manager:     Mahmood A. Ayub                            Katherine Marshall, Dept. Dir.
Sector Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                Peter Watson, DIVISION CHIEF
Team Leader at ICR:   Jean-Noel Guillossou                      Brigitta Mitchell, Mission Leader
ICR Primary Author:  Jerome F. Chevallier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Transport Sector Adjustrnent/Investment Program, approved in June
1991, was to support the ongoing macroeconomic adjustment program, with a special emphasis
on reforming the transport sector. The objectives of the reform were to: (a) reduce the cost of



transport; (b) strengthen sector management including investment and maintenance programming
capacity; (c) privatize the execution of works or provision of services in the sector to the extent
possible; and (d) restructure remaining parastatals in the sector, which were expected to be run as
conmnercial enterprises, without requiring public subsidies.
Previous Bank involvement in the sector. Between 1966 and 1987, the Bank supported the
development of the Senegal's transport sector through 15 operations, including 6 highway, 4
railway, 3 port and 2 aviation projects. In its country assistance review for the 1960-87 period,
OED concluded that the Bank's strategy in the transport sector had been sound. Its main features
were as valid in the late 1980s as they were in the mid-1960s, when they were initially formulated.
The strategy focused on sound investment planning, priority to maintenance, and emphasis on
economy and efficiency. Project performance was satisfactory in highways, but poor in railways.
The port and aviation projects contributed to improving facilities, but traffic declined, as Dakar
lost its role in the region and as a stop over from Europe to South America. Lessons from
experience included the need to approach institutional change gradually, as was done for road
maintenance, and defer lending when the government commitment or capability to implement
reform was uncertain.
The adjustment process.   The transport sector operation was designed to support
implementation of Senegal's adjustment program, which had been initiated in 1980. Four SALs
had been extended by the Bank in support of the program. The objective of SAL IV, which was
approved in January 1990, was to help restore Senegal's competitive position through reforming
the tax system, reducing labor rigidities, improving the quality of public expenditure, and
rationalizing the public enterprise sector. The achievements of SAL IV fell short of objectives,
however. The macroeconomic framework deteriorated significantly in 1992 and 1993, and
several reforms were not implemented, including reducing the wage bill and reforming the Labor
Code. On the other hand, good progress was achieved in reducing subsidies to public enterprises.
In 1986, the Government and the Bank reached agreement on the need for reform in the
transport sector in three main areas: (i) imnproved investment planning in the sector with a target
of at least 80 percent of sector expenditures earmarked for infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance, and a major emphasis on repairing the dilapidated highway network; (ii) increased
mobilization of resources from the sector through improved efficiency, cost control and revised
tariff policies in the railway and port subsectors; and (iii) strengthened sector management
through a series of institutional reforms, including revising the legal status and increasing the
autonomy of the port, railway and civil aviation parastatals. The transport sector operation was
designed to help the Government implement these reforms
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The transport sector operation covered the priority areas of the Government's
FY91-FY95 sector expenditure program.  It included an adjustment and an investment
- 2 -



component.
The adjustment component sought to ensure that: (a) resource allocation for road maintenance
would be sufficient to cover essential requirements; (b) a new railway company would be
established on a sound financial basis; and (c) financial and operating targets for parastatals in the
sector would be met. The adjustment component was to be disbursed in three tranches. Tranche
release conditions included adequate funding for road maintenance, timely payment of invoices to
contractors, and achieving agreed financial and operating targets for the railway company
(SNCS), the port of Dakar (PAD), and the airline company (Air Senegal). Implementation of a
10 percent tariff increase by SNCS was a condition of credit effectiveness. Introduction of a
revised tariff structure by PAD was a condition of second tranche release. Finally, agreement and
initial implementation of an action plan for ASECNA-Senegal, the public agency in charge of the
management of airports and air navigation facilities, was a condition of third tranche release.
The investment component focused almost exclusively on rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing transport infrastructure. Subprojects were identified in the Government's FY91-FY95
transport sector investment and expenditure program, including 22 in the road sub-sector, 25 in
the rail sub-sector, 17 in the port sub-sector and 12 in the aviation sub-sector. The main features
of this program included: (a) in the road sub-sector, the strengthening of about 860 km of badly
deteriorated paved roads, periodic maintenance of 2065 km of paved and 1300 km of gravel
roads, and routine maintenance on some 9000 km of the network; (b) in the rail sub-sector, the
intensive maintenance of 180 km of track, the replacement of rolling stock, and spare parts and
equipment for maintenance; (c) in the port sub-sector, the construction of an access road to the
recently opened container terminal, and rehabilitation of over-aged utility networks; and (d) in the
aviation sub-sector, the rehabilitation of runways in secondary airports, and navigation equipment
at selected airports. All investment components included technical assistance to strengthen sector
agencies, training and consulting services for works supervision and studies.
3.4 Revised Components:
A few discrete investments were added to the project in the final years of its
implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the transport sector operation is rated satisfactory. The operation
was fully consistent with the country assistance strategy, which emphasized the need to improve
the incentives system and promote a sustainable level of long-term growth. As a member of the
CFA franc zone, it was not possible for Senegal to change unilaterally its nominal exchange rate,
as a means to increase its external competitiveness. Accordingly, the strategy sought to reduce
production costs, including in the transport sector. The project was obviously among the
priorities of the Government as demonstrated by the highly satisfactory rating for project
preparation by the Borrower. The operation was an integral part of the Government's expenditure
program for the sector, which was co-financed by 12 donors, including IDA.
The operation met the Bank safeguard policies when it was approved. It included
- 3 -



rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, which minimized risks of deforestation or property
disturbance. The construction of a paved road funded by other financiers raised environmental
concerns because it was expected to pass through a national park, which had been declared a
World Heritage Site by UNESCO. A thorough investigation of the environmental impact of this
project and a study on an alternative route around the park were undertaken. The measures
proposed as a result were found appropriate by IDA and UNESCO. However, there was no
attempt under the operation to reinforce the capacity of Senegal to manage and monitor
environmental issues in its transport sector. Requirements for strengthening capacity building
were identified during the preparation of the Second Transport Sector Project which is currently
implementing it.
The use of a hybrid format was acdequate to address the most important sector issues while
providing parallel support to the investment budget. APLs did not exist at the time the project
was prepared. The operation was designed as an hybrid with an adjustment and an investment
component, for several reasons. First, loading SAL operations with a variety of sector reforms
was deemed counterproductive, as it would risk derailing the macro adjustment process if one
sectoral issue could not be resolved. Se3ond, under past projects in the sector, the Government
had a tendency to focus on infrastructure construction at the expense of policy reform; policy
measures attached to investment projects through covenants had not been particularly successful.
Third, combining adjustment and investrment in one operation resulted in getting the attention of
top decision makers to the critical sectoral reforms, beyond the technical ministries concerned.
Finally, past experience under IDA credits showed that the Government did not fully fund road
maintenance, once external funding was nIo longer available. By making adequate budget funding
for road maintenance a condition for the release of each of the three tranches, it was expected that
the Government would establish and mainitain thereafter good practices.
Benefits were described in general terms. The majority of investment subprojects was
estimated to have a rate of return ranging from 15 to 85 percent. Transport costs were expected
to be substantially reduced, but without any indication on how much for each mode. The project
was also expected to generate employment, including 3200 unskilled construction workers, 800
skilled operators and drivers, and 800 workers in ancillary maintenance tasks. Operating and
financial objectives were specified for the sector parastatals, and achieving them was a condition
of second and third tranche release. As was the case in the late 1980s - early 1990s when the
project was prepared, the SAR did not include a clear set of performance indicators to measure
outcomes.
The assumptions regarding the project risks were reasonable. The main risk foreseen was
the inability of the Government to live up to its financial commitments. The road rehabilitation
program implied a tripling of its annual budget allocations for maintenance, which was clearly a
challenge. Adjusting tariffs and compensating transport companies for losses occasioned by the
provision of social services, particular]y in the railway and aviation sub-sectors, had been
considerably delayed in the past. Substantial progress had been made during the preparation of
the transport sector operation on those aspects, and it was expected that the hybrid nature of the
credit would help the Government maintain the momentum. Also, the conditionalities of SAL IV
and of the transport sector operation would be mutually reinforcing. The risks were significant in
-4 -



view of past experience, but were considered worth taking.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome is rated satisfactory. All measures included in the adjustment component of
the project were implemented. Although the conditionality related to the privatization of Air
Senegal had to be waived, the company was eventually privatized at the end of the project in
1999. The reform program sought to strengthen sector management and performance, by focusing
the role of Government on investment and maintenance programming, and privatizing the
execution of works and the provision of services. Two outcome indicators out of four (see
Annex 1) were satisfactorily met: running of private enterprises as commercial enterprises and
privatization of the execution of civil works. Although the third outcome indicator (reduction of
transport costs) was not monitored during project execution, it is expected that the costs were
reduced on the paved network due to the length of the road network rehabilitated or maintained
and the increase in resources allocated to road maintenance compared to the situation before the
project was implemented. However, transport costs on the unpaved network are expected to have
increased due to the lack of external resources for periodic maintenance or rehabilitation of the
roads and the resulting deterioration of the road condition.
Strengthening of sector management, which was the fourth indicator, has been modest.
The Government decision not to subsidize public enterprises any more, had a positive impact on
the management of these enterprises, making them more commercially oriented. In the
Department of Public Works, privatization of road maintenance forced the department to identify
much earlier in the budgetary process a program of works in order to launch tenders and award
contracts and execute works within the budgetary year. This was not the case before the project
started, when maintenance was executed by force account and works were decided on a
day-to-day basis based on an overall budgetary envelop.
The backlog of road maintenance has been reduced. Road maintenance and rehabilitation
works are now fully carried out by private contractors. Economic criteria for project selection
have been introduced. The ratio of funds use in the road sub-sector of 75 percent for maintenance
and 25 percent for new works has been adhered to. Budget allocations to the Road Fund have
steadily increased in past years, from CFAF 4.5 billion in 1993 to CFAF 13 billion in 1998 and
CFAF 15 billion in 1999. However, this amount is still short of requirements for road
maintenance, estimated at CFAF 20 to 25 billion per annum and external financing is still needed.
Moreover, actual disbursements in 1998 and 1999 were CFAF 11.2 and 13.4 billion respectively,
of which over CFAF 1 billion to cover administrative cost. Delays in paying invoices to
contractors, which had been considerably reduced, have resurfaced in recent years. The 3-month
limit specified in the program is now more the exception than the rule.
The performance of public sector enterprises in the rail, port and aviation sub-sectors has
improved. They have been granted full autonomy and have met the operational and financial
targets set forth as conditions of tranche release in the adjustment component of the operation.
They operate on commercial principles and no longer receive operating subsidies from the
- 5 -



Government, except for Air Senegal. The company was privatized in 1999 and is now expected to
operate without subsidies. Improvement in management of the railway company has not been
sufficient however, to ensure its long-term viability and the company is being privatized with
completion of the privatization process expected by the end of 2000.
Efforts were made to establish reliable management systems and databases in the road, rail
and port sub-sectors, through extensive use of long term technical assistance. There has been
inadequate attention, however, to the btaining of. Senegalese technicians, with the result that
capacity remains weak.  The capacity of the Directorate in charge of programming and
supervising road works did not improve as expected, and the operation of the Road Fund lacks
transparency.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Road sub-sector. Actual strengthening of paved roads slightly exceeded original targets (911 km
against 860 km), but periodic maintenance was much below the targets (478 km of paved roads
against 2,065km; 367 km of unpaved roads against 1,300 km). The quality of works has been
poor in many cases, as pointed out in a technical audit carried out in April 2000. Accordingly, the
official estimate that 60 percent of the paved road network is in good condition today, against 35
percent in 1991, should be taken with caution.  The unpaved road network has further
deteriorated. Routine maintenance of 9,000 km is now fully carried out by private contractors,
but work supervision is weak. The lo-wer output can be explained by lack of external funds
(12.5% of the program was unfunded when the program was approved and remained unfunded,
some donors provided their funds with delays due to the poor macroeconomic performance until
the 1994 CFA devaluation). An other reason is the higher cost of works than expected due to
delays between appraisal and the actual execution of the works and the deterioration of the roads
in the meanwhile.
Railway sub-sector. The rail telecommunication system has been upgraded and modem
locomotives have been acquired (with C'anadian financing). Maintenance of infrastructure and
equipment has significantly improved.  Equipment for computerizing operations has been
provided. On the other hand, the badly deteriorated Tambacounda-Kidira section of the railroad
system (about 180 km) has not been rehabilitated due to the withdrawal of a bilateral financier,
which was expected to provide about half of the funds of the railway component of the program.
IDA funds were reallocated to finance the rehabilitation of nearly 25 km of the Tamba-Kidira
section. Traffic on the Dakar to Bamako railroad is often interrupted because of serious
infrastructure problems. In 1999 traffic was interrupted for a total of 41 days, of which 35 days
due to incidents on the Malian side.
A performance contract was signed between the Govermnent and SNCS, the railway
company, in 1989, and again in 1996. A redundancy program has been implemented reducing the
number of staff from 2167 in 1993 to 1648 in 1997. As a result, the wage bill as a share of
revenue declined to under 31 percent in 1995, compared to 56 percent in 1993. Two loss-making
passenger services were discontinued (Tivaouane-St. Louis and Ginguineo-Kaolack). Traffic has
declined in the past five years, however, raising serious doubts as to the ability of the public
company to turn the situation around .md justifying the privatization option which is being
- 6 -



implemented.
Port sub-sector. The access road and the rehabilitation of utility networks for the port of Dakar
have been completed.  A number of studies have also been carried out to improve its
management. Tariffs have been adjusted in 1993, and again in 1995 to take account of the
devaluation of the CFA franc. Traffic has increased by 34 percent between 1991 and 1999.
Aviation sub-sector. The program of works and equipment, including additional items in the
revised project composition, have been completed. What remains to be done to improve safety
and traffic handling capacity was identified at the end of the project and a program of action is
now being implemented with support from the Bank, AFD and the US Federal Aviation
Administration. The national airline company was privatized in 1999. Privatization of airport
management is being discussed by donors with the Government. Passenger traffic at Dakar airport
has increased by 26 percent from 1991 to 1999, and freight volume by 4 percent.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR estimated that the economic rates of return (ERRs) for the subprojects would
range from 15 to 85 percent, based on the standard user cost-savings methodology, but did not
provide any details on the economic evaluation. The basic data were not found in the archives.
Because insufficient attention was paid to monitoring the project impact during its execution, no
comprehensive traffic data were collected to measure the actual economic impact of the road
component of the project. Traffic on a sample of roads maintained with external financing are
given in Annex 3. Between 1989 and 1996, traffic has increased in a range of 50 percent to 100
percent on most roads. Traffic decreased on seven sections, which should be investigated.
The changes in the economy resulting from the CFA devaluation make it also difficult to
estimate the economic impact of the project separately. Annex 10 provides data on traffic in the
port, civil aviation and railway subsectors. Railway traffic was decreasing during the 1991-1994
period. The 1994 devaluation had a positive impact with a 23% traffic increase between 1994 and
1995. However, the deterioration of the track and competition with the road or other corridors
have resulted in a reduction of traffic of about 16 percent between 1995 and 1999. Port traffic
which was decreasing between 1991 and 1994 because of the weak macroeconomic performance
started to increase again after the CFA devaluation. This trend has maintained until 1999 with a
total 44 percent increase since 1994. A similar trend can be found for passenger traffic at the
airport of Dakar with a total 38 percent increase between 1994 and 1998.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
For the same reasons explained above, a financial rate of return could not be calculated.
Annex 10 of the report and the PAD of the second transport sector project provide data on the
financial performance of the transport sector public enterprises.
Revenues of the railway company remained constant from 1991 until the devaluation.
They increased by about 20 percent after the devaluation and have remained constant since then.
The net income has increased by about 50 percent since the devaluation although the traffic has
- 7 -



decreased by about 8 percent. Earnings before depreciation, interests and taxes (EBIT) have gone
from a negative 13% in 1993 to a positive 13% in 1997. Similarly, net revenues have gone from a
net loss representing 5% of revenues to a net profit of 5% during the same period.
The revenues of the port of Dakar were decreasing before the devaluation which reversed
the trend. Increase in revenues has not foi.low increase in traffic which reflects the port carefulness
to keep tariff at a competitive level with other regional ports such as Conakry in Guinea or
Abidjan in C6te d'Ivoire. The wage bill remains an issue as it tends to increase continuously,
however. Overall the financial situation of the port improved under the program. Revenues
increased as well as earnings before depreciation, interest and taxes (EBIT) from 27% to 34%.
Net income compared to revenues improved from 4% in 1993 to 9% in 1997. The liquidity
position also improved with the current ratio increasing from 1.1 to 2.1 over the same period. The
debt-equity ratio decreased from 34% in 1993 to a low 23% in 1994 but increased again to 29%
in 1997.
Although air traffic has steadily increased since 1994, the financial situation of the airport
management company has remained weak and is expected to remain as such according to the
financial analysis carried out during the preparation of the second transport sector project.
Privatization of airport management is expected to address this weakness.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
The institutional development irapact of the project in the road sub-sector is modest.
Sector management and planning remains weak. Instruments have been developed for road
maintenance planning, but they are not being used efficiently. The Road Fund continues to
finance activities that are unrelated to rnaintenance. Procedures are not transparent and work
supervision is not up to standards. A training center for both administration staff and small
contractors was to be restructured as a condition of disbursement for the road component.
Technical assistance has been provided, but the center has failed to increase the capacity of small
contractors or administration staff.
Institutional development in the other sub-sectors has been substantial. The performance
of sector enterprises and agencies has improved. They operate now according to normal business
practices and are more efficient than was the case before program implementation.  New
management tools and computerization have been introduced and successfully transferred to staff.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The macroeconomic situation deteriorated significantly in 1992 and 1993 as a result of a
decline in the terms of trade, the over-evaluation of the currency, and the return of poor weather.
Real GDP declined, the current account cLeficit increased, and the overall fiscal deficit, which had
disappeared in 1991, increased to 4 percent of GDP. The authorities took steps to restore the
fiscal balance, including a 15 percent reduction of the civil service payroll and removal of
subsidies to public enterprises, but these measures fell short of the adjustment needed to correct
growing internal and external imbalances. As a result, counterpart funding lacked for the road
-8 -



component, which caused delays in program implementation.
Reduced economic activity resulted in lower revenues for all public enterprises operating
in the transport sector, which, in turn, led to delays in implementing their restructuring plans. In
addition, political unrest in the Casamance region in 1991 and 1992, and the effects of the Gulf
war in 1991 led to the closure of most tourist hotels, with serious consequences for Air Senegal.
The performance contract could no longer be implemented, and was suspended. Following the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994, traffic growth resumed, but the company was
affected by two plane accidents in 1996-97, which severely curtailed its ability to operate.
Political issues impacted negatively on the program. In 1991, a coalition government took
office. It was more interested, however, in power sharing opportunities than in economic reform.
Presidential elections in February 1993 affected implementation of the structural adjustment
program, including its transport component. The program went off-track, the third tranche of
SAL IV was canceled, and the credit closed. Interference in the management of parastatals,
which had been significantly curtailed in 1990, became a serious problem again.
Mobilizing donor support for the financing of the transport sector program took longer
than initially envisaged. Support from one bilateral donor did not materialize, which delayed the
rehabilitation of the Tambacounda-Kidira section of the railroad from Dakar to Bamako and
postponed efficiency and security gains, which are essential for an increase in traffic on that route.
Privatization of the international operation of the railways has been delayed for lack of agreement
between the Governments of Senegal and Mali on the capital structure of the company to be
created.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Credit effectiveness was much delayed. It took almost 8 months after Board approval for
the Borrower to meet all conditions for effectiveness. There were 9 special conditions of
effectiveness. Publication of the decree providing for streamlined procurement and payment
procedures for small road maintenance contracts took much longer than expected.
The large fiscal imbalances in the early years of the credit led to accumulation of arrears,
and suspension of disbursements from several sources, which in turn interrupted work
implementation. Throughout program implementation, resources for implementing agencies to
cover operating costs were much below requirements, making it difficult to operate efficiently and
to build up capacity to replace long term technical assistance.
The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 had a negative impact on a nlumber of
public enterprises in the non-tradable sector, including SNCS, PAD and Air Senegal. These
enterprises suffered as imported input costs rose and reduced domestic demand, together with a
temporary control on prices, led to pressure on revenues. This in turn delayed their ability to
meet the targets set in their performance contracts, which were conditions for second and third
tranche release. All conditions for second tranche release were met in late 1994, almost two years
behind schedule, with the exception of that pertaining to Air Senegal. Again, conditions for third
tranche release were met by the end of 1995, with the same exception. The Air Senegal
-9-



performance contract was suspended in 1992. Audits in 1994 recommended that the company be
privatized.  Taking account of the (Government decision to privatize, Bank management
recommended to the Board that the conditions pertaining to Air Senegal be waived. The two
tranches were released in November 1996.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementing agencies did not establish adequate procedures for implementing and
monitoring the project early on, making coordination of program implementation difficult.
Decision-making was generally slow. The poor political and economic environment, which
prevailed during the early years of the project, was not conducive to discipline and improved
performance by public agencies and enterprises involved program implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The credit took much longer to disburse than initially envisaged. Only after the 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc did the macroeconomic framework become conducive to
implementing the improvements sought in the management and performance of public enterprises
in the sector. The second and third tranches were released in November 1996 only, three and two
years respectively behind schedule.
Disbursements for the investment component were also much delayed. The lack of a procedure
manual was a major constraint for program implementation. The initial closing date of the credit
was December 31, 1997, but the SAR expected disbursements to be completed by end-June 1996.
Actually, by that date, only one half of the credit had been disbursed. By the initial closing date,
the adjustment component was fully disbursed, but about 25 percent of the investment component
of the credit remained to be disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the sustainability is ratecl likely. This is justified by the continuous effort made
under the follow-up operation, the Second Transport Sector Project, to improve the sector
institutional framework in order to ensure better sector management and resource allocation.
Measures to be taken under the Second Transport Sector Project include the creation of a
Road Agency which will manage road maintenance. The agency will be staffed with private
personnel and managed under commercial rules. It will be under the supervision of a Road Board
with a majority of private stakeholders. The Ministry of Equipment will have a regulatory role of
defining policies and ensuring that the objectives given to the agency are reached and that the
performance indicators are met. Funds for road maintenance will still come from the budget but
will be managed by a Road Fund Agency with a similar private-type statute as that of the Road
Agency. The Fund will also be under the supervision of the Road Board.
Under the programn, the Government has provided resources for road maintenance at a
level, which has increased over past years, but is still not sufficient to cover requirements for
- 10-



routine and periodic maintenance. Taking account of past experience in Senegal and other
countries, there is always the risk that budget allocations may be lower than expected, and
availability of resources untimely. This risk is modest, however, as long as the donor community
continues to support the sector. The Government has agreed to consider the creation of a
second-generation Road Fund, replenished with resources collected directly from users and
deposited in a bank account, if the budget is no more able to provide enough resources for road
maintenance.
The sustainability of the port and aviation components is likely. Public enterprises in the
transport sector in Senegal, with the exception of Air Senegal, operate now without subsidies.
They have the capacity to maintain the infrastructure and equipment provided under the project.
Government interference in their management is much less an issue now than at the early stages of
program implementation. On the other hand, they continue to suffer from a slow government
decision-making process and delays in being compensated for public service obligations.
Moreover, their ability to finance investment out of retained earnings is limited. Privatization of
airport management and of the container terminal should enhance the sustainability of investment
in these two sub-sectors. The Second Transport Sector Project provides support to this
privatization.
To ensure sustainability of the railway component, privatization of the Dakar to Bamako
operations needs to be completed rapidly. The company is not in a position to reverse the recent
deterioration in performance without external support. The privatization is supported by the most
important donors in the sector (IDA, AFD, BOAD) under the second transport sector project.
Successful privatization of the company is a condition for Bank financing of the rehabilitation of
the most deteriorated section of the railway track.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A follow-up project was approved in March 1999.  It seeks to build upon the
achievements of the past operation and correct remaining deficiencies. A three-year rolling road
maintenance and rehabilitation program has been prepared. Rehabilitation of the unpaved road
network is included in the new program. An autonomous entity will be established to replace the
Directorate of Public Works and manage road maintenance. A Road Fund Agency will be
established under the supervision of a Road Board with a majority of stakeholders to ensure that it
is run along well defined technical, accounting, and financial management criteria.
Privatization of the international rail service between Dakar and Bamako is underway,
which entails a changing role for SNCS. A new corporate strategy has been prepared. Further
staff redundancies are expected and will be financed under the new project. Privatization of Air
Senegal is completed. Under the new project, airport management will also be privatized. In the
port sub-sector, policy changes are being made to encourage private operators to increase the
supply of river transport and coastal shipping services. The debt of public enterprises in the
sector will be restructured to enable them to operate satisfactorily.
Several agencies are expected to collect data and monitor performance indicators. In the
log-frame for the new project, however, these indicators are insufficiently quantified. This will
- 1 1 -



make it difficult to ascertain progress in meeting the development objectives. It would be
advisable to establish a focal point that would systematically collect information on transport
supply and cost, make comparisons with competitors inside and outside the region, and widely
disseminate conclusions. The Government has agreed to this recommendation and is preparing its
implementation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank in the preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
satisfactory. Taking account of past experience in the sector, the Bank helped Senegal prepare a
broad and ambitious program emphasizing rehabilitation of infrastructure and reform of sector
policies and institutions. The Bank took tae leadership in the donor community and succeeded in
building a consensus on the reform and investment program. This was a remarkable achievement,
given past tendency of donors to finance construction of new infrastructure without giving
enough consideration to maintenance. The comprehensive approach resulted in a complex
project, which was difficult to manage, as it involved a large number of local agencies and donor
organizations. This was the price to pay, however, to give momentum to a long overdue reform
program. If the Bank had continued randomly funding individual projects in each sub-sector, it is
likely that the reform program would not have been carried out. To make it work, the Bank put
considerable emphasis on up-front actions, including institutional changes that increase the railway
company and the port agency autonomy.
Insufficient attention was given, however to implementation arrangements for a complex
operation. A coordination unit was set up) in the Ministry of Public Works, but it had difficulty
working with agencies under the supervision of other ministries. At the end of the project and for
the preparation of the follow-up operation, the coordination unit was relocated in the Prime
Minister's office but moved back to the Ministry of Transport when the three ministries with
transport departmnents were merged following the nomination of a new government after the
February 2000 elections. The absence of a procedure manual was also a serious constraint to
smooth project implementation. Again, this problem has been corrected under the new project.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated satisfactory. There was continuity in Bank teams. Supervision
missions visited Senegal about twice a year. During project execution, the Bank was able to
ensure continuity and consistency in the dialogue on policy or implementation issues although ups
and downs did not create an easy environment. On the broad period covering the project
execution, and preparation and launch of the second operation, the overall trend with respect to
institutional or physical activities in the sector, is positive and the Bank can be commended for
having a significant role vis-a-vis such achievement. Implementation of the adjustment component
was difficult at the start of the project bu: was eventually successful. At the same time, physical
implementation of the project became difficult and the workshops with the stakeholders have
shown that these issues remained unadressed during project execution. However, the Bank
managed to reach an agreement with the Government on the measures necessary to address these
- 12 -



implementation issues, especially in the road maintenance sector and include these measures in the
follow-up transport operation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation. The performance of the Government and public agencies concerned in preparing
the operation was highly satisfactory. There was a consensus on main issues to be addressed
under the operation. Detailed action plans were prepared for translating policy changes into
reality.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As indicated earlier, the performance of the Government was highly unsatisfactory in the
early years of project implementation. Counterpart funding was not available and Government
interfered in the management of public enterprises. After the devaluation of the CFA franc in
January 1994, the performance of the Government steadily improved, however. Good progress
was made in the investment and adjustment components of the operation. Weaknesses remained,
however, mainly in the staffing and funding of public agencies in charge of sector planning and
management, and in the functioning of the Road Fund. Also, long-term technical assistance was
not adequately used to strengthen local capacity.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the public enterprises in charge of sub-sector components has
improved over program implementation. They are now much better equipped to implement more
complex productivity-enhancement programs. The performance of a number of small contractors
involved in road maintenance has not been satisfactory. This had been expected, and a training
program had been designed, but poorly implemented.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of the Government is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Although it would be difficult to apply the lessons from this program to the entire
transport sector program approach, it is recommended that a much closer look be given to the
achievements of these sector programs, their benefits, strengths and weaknesses. Based on the
experience in Senegal and other countries, sector programs are long and costly to prepare (often
more than five years and more than one million dollars from the Bank budget without counting
resources from trust funds and PPFs). Their focus is on policy reform and overall the objective of
reforming the transport sector is achieved. However, if policy dialogue is strong during program
preparation, the emphasis is put on implementing the investment component after the program
- 13 -



starts. The logical framework put in place during program preparation also disappears, with key
ministries on policy dialogue and reform such as the Ministry of Economy and Finance playing a
much lesser role. Donor coordination weakens as donors focus more on implementing their own
component in the program. Policy dialogue starts again as soon as preparation of a follow-up
program starts. Therefore, there is a need for a mechanism to ensure a continuity at a more
constant level in the analysis of sector efficiency, performance, issues and reforms. This supposes
more ownership at the government level as well as building local capacity to carry out this
analysis.
The transport sector program approach has proved to be not flexible enough. Discussions
during preparation stage of the project tend to limit to sector issues. They were relevant at the
time, but later on issues that are no longer relevant cannot be discarded and new issues cannot be
taken in consideration.
There is a need to consider what investments are essential and for which the decision for
their financing and execution should not be linked to an agreement to policy reforms. Preparation
of the investment component of transport programs suffers from the emphasis put on policy
dialogue. If an agreement on policy reforms is a condition for executing the investment program
and if reaching such agreement takes several years, it is very difficult to ensure readiness of
implementation of policy reforms and execution of the investment program at the same time.
Either an investment program is prepared but if the agreement on policy reforms comes later, the
program becomes obsolete and has to be revised, or all efforts are concentrated on preparing
policy reforms and when an agreement is reached, the investment program is not ready to be
implemented. There is an additional cost for the economy, in terms of additional costs of
investments and sector efficiency loss, when investments have to be postponed and transport
infrastructure cannot maintained/rehabilitated/upgraded when needed.
Preparation of investment programs within transport sector programs should be better
integrated in the process of preparing annual public expenditure programs. Very often, a
comprehensive investment program is defined as part of a transport sector program. This
investment program covers a certain number of years but is rarely revised and in particular almost
never updated, after a certain number of years has passed, to include the equivalent number of
years to come.
Assumptions regarding availability of financing should be more realistic. Very often, when
a program is agreed, many donors have only expressed an interest in participating in the program,
but no firm commitment. The program scope and its objectives should be reviewed annually and
revised if necessary to reflect changes in availability of resources.
An hybrid operation may be an adequate format when a large agenda of unresolved issues
in the sector needs to be addressed. However, the timetable for implementing reforms needs to be
tailored to the Government commitment and capacity to implement reforms. These need to be
carefully assessed before starting the operation. Before deciding on a hybrid format, the question
should be answered whether the most critical adjustment measures should not be better placed in
a structural adjustment operation. If a hybrid format is chosen, the chance of success is greater if
- 14 -



the adjustment measures are also supported under a structural adjustment operation.
Refonn and program objectives need to be consistent with the macroeconomic
framework. The project sought to improve the performance of the transport sector as a means to
enhance Senegal's competitiveness. In the absence of a devaluation, however, efforts at cost
cutting, while indispensable, would not have been sufficient to restore economic competitiveness.
As a consequence, the government may have considered that these efforts were not worth their
political cost and did not push for implementing the reforms. As a result, performance in project
implementation was highly unsatisfactory before the 1994 devaluation, but improved thereafter
when the benefits of the reforms were considered important enough.
Enough budget should be granted for program supervision by the Bank. Bank
management tends to consider that supervising a program does not require much more resources
than for supervising a standard investment operation. However, program supervision includes
expertise in a lot more domains (sectoral but also cross-sectoral as well as fiduciary). If resources
are not available, Bank involvement should be much more selective and expectations regarding
Bank involvement in the sector should be revised accordingly.
Technical assistance is not a substitute for weak government commitment to reform, and
is not effective when the incentives framework is inadequate. The project put far too much
emphasis on technical assistance, and not enough on training and capacity building.
A strong administration is required to contract out and supervise implementation of a large
program of road rehabilitation and maintenance. This was not the case under the project and, as a
result, the establishment of an autonomous road agency is under consideration to correct this
issue.
The competitiveness of Senegal's transport sector is crucial for continued economic
growth. A set of indicators should be developed and continuously monitored to ensure that
Senegal does its best efforts to emulate the best performers worldwide. Being marginally better
than the weak performers is not an option for a resource-poor country like Senegal.
More attention should be paid to the definition of project objectives and performance
indicators which allow to measure whether these objectives are achieved or not. An objective such
as strengthening capacity is much too general and very difficult to monitor. A procedure to ernsure
that these indicators are collected should be put in place before the program starts. Measuring
performance also supposes that the value of the indicators are known at the beginning of the
project. A set of key indicators needs to be defined based on which performance is assessed.
Defining too many indicators, and the transport sector provides an ample number of them, is
useless as it is impossible to assess objectively project performance when some performance
targets are met and some are not.
Other valuable lessons can be drawn from the Stakeholder Workshop Results (Annex 9).
- 15 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government prepared a thorough Implementation Completion Report in 1999 available in the
project files.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Agence Francaise de Developpement (French Development Agency) indicated that it did not have
comments on the draft ICR. Other cofinanciers did not provide comments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorsALog Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact
Indicator                     Projected in SAR/PAD          Actual/Latest Estimate
Public enterprises in sector run   No more subsidies        Subsidies have been
as commercial enterprises                                   discontinued, except for Air
Senegal
Reduce cost of transport      No indicator in SAR           No monitoring system in place
Execution of works and        Road maintenance works        Road maintenance works are
provision of services privatized   contracted out           now fully contracted out
to the extent possible
Sector management             Capacity to plan investment and   Modest capacity developed
strengthened                 maintenance in place
Output Indicators
Indicator                     Projected in SAR/PAD          Actual/Latest Estimate
Roads
Network rehabilitated and     860 km of paved road          911 km of paved roads
maintained                   strengthened                   strengthened, but quality of
works uneven
Periodic maintenance of 2065  478 km of paved roads and 367
km of paved and 1300 km of    km of unpaved roads
unpaved roads
Routine maintenance of 9000   Routine maintenance in place,
km of roads                   but covers only one third of
requirements
Capacity to plan and manage   Tools in place                Capacity to plan and manage
sector in place                                             sector has remained weak
Payment to contractors        Reduce payment delays to less    Payment delays are on average
than 3 months                 much longer than 3 months
- 17 -



Railways
Infrastructure rehabilitated and   Rehabilitation and upgrading of   Telecommunications and
maintenance upgraded        infrastructure and equipment  locomotives upgraded, but 180
km of railroad not rehabilitated
Company run as a commercial   Implementation of performance   Performance criteria met;
entity                      contract                     subsidies discontinued, but
traffic is declining
Port
Infrastructure rehabilitated  Access road built and utilities  Physical investment made
rehabilitated
Port of Dakar run as        Implementation of performance   Perfornance criteria met
commercial entity           contract
Civil aviation
Infrastructure and equipment    Runways rehabilitated and  Works completed and most
upgraded                    equipment upgraded           equipment procured
Action plan for ASECNA      Action plan agreed           Action plan agreed
Performance contract for Air    Performance contract      Criteria not met, but
Senegal                     implemented                  privatization underway
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
Project Cost by Component           Estimate      Estimate     Appraisal
US $million
I. INVESTMENT COMPONENT
Road Component                                 345.5         216.2       62.6%
Railway Component                               67.5          59.6       88.3%
Port Component                                  33.0          26.3       79.7%
Aviation Component                              18.0          13.3       73.9%
Project Unit                                     0.0           1.4
Total Base Cost                             464.0         316.8       68.3%
Contingencies                                  119.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT                     583.0        316.8        54.3%/
II. ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT                           20.0          20.0       100.0%
III. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                    1.5                      0.0%
|   TOTAL PROJECT COST                             604.51       336.8        55.71
Appraisal | Actual/Latest Percentage of
Project Cost by Component           Estimate  I  Estimate -  Appraisal
US $m illion
I. IVSMENT (OMPfNENT
Road Component                                 345.5         270.2      62.60%
Railway Component                               67.5          59.6      88.30%
Port Component                                  33.0          26.3      79.70%
Aviation Component                              18.0          13.3      73.90%
Project Unit                                     0.0           1.4
Total Base Cost                             464.0         3708       68.30%
Contingencies                                  119.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT                     583.0        370.8       54.30%
II. AnJ!lISTMENT COMPnONEN-T                       20.0          20.0         100%
III. PRflrCT PREPARATION EACIITTY                    1.5           1.5       100%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    1        604.51       392.31      64.90%1
The difference between estimate at appraisal and actual can be explained by several reasons:
- US$75 million were unfunded at appraisal and remained unfunded.
- Some donors did not provide the amount of resources expected at appraisal. This was particularly the
case for the railway component where a donor which was supposed to provide about half of the financing
withdrew and had to be partially replaced by IDA.
- Actual data do not include the contribution of public enterprises as it was the case in the appraisal
estimate.
- 19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ equivalent)
Expenditure Category            _Procurement Method 1/2
_________________ _  IC( IC    NCB            OTHER 21        TOTAL
Road Component                22.6  (22.61  63.9   (8.3) 359.6   (9.5) 446.1  (40.4)
Civil Works                  22.6  (22.6)  59.8   (8.3) 346.6   (0.0) 429.0  (30.9)
Equipment & Materials         0.0   (0.0)   4.1   (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.0)   4.1   (0.0)
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training         0.0   (0.0)   0.0   (0.0)  13.0   (9.5)  13.0   (9.5)
Railway Component               0.0    0.0    5.5   (4.7)  72.4   (1.9)  77.9   (6.6)
Civil Works (incl. ballast for
track rehabilitation)         0.0   (0.0)   5.2   (4.4)  40.8   (0.0)  46.0   (4.4)
Equipment & Materials         0.0   (0.0)   0.3   (0.3)  19.1   (0.0)  19.4   (0.3)
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training         0.0   (0.0)   0.0   (0.0)  12.5   (1.9)  12.5   (1.9)
Port Component                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.4   (0.7)  38.4   (0.7)
Civil Works                   0.0   (0.0.0     .0   (0.0)  28.0   (0.0)  28.0    0.0
Equipment & Materials         0.0   (0.0)   0.0   (0.0)   5.9   (0.0)   5.9    0.0
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training         0.0   (0.0)   0.0   (0.0)   4.5   (0.7)   4.5   (0.7)
Aviation Component              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.6   (0.9)  20.6   (0.9)
Civil Works                   0.0   (0.0)   0.0   (0.0)  14.1   (0.0)  14.1    0.0
Equipment & Materials         0.0   (0.0)   0.0   (0.0)   5.6   (0.0)   5.6    0.0
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training         0.0   (0.0)   0.0   (0.0)   0.9   (0.9)   0.9   (0.9)
Total Investment Componen  22.6  J22.6)  69.4  (13.0) 491.0  (12.9) 583.0  (48.5)
Civil Works                  22.6  (22.6)  65.0  (12.7) 429.5    0.0  517.1  (35.3)
Equipment & Materials         0.0    0.0    4.4   (0.3)  30.6    0.0   35.0   (0.3)
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.9  (12.9)  30.9  (12.9)
Adiustment Component 3'                                                   20.0  (15.0)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                     603.0  (63.5)
Project Preparation Facility                                                1.5   (1.5)
GRAND TOTAL                      =                                 604.5  (65.0)
1/ Amounts in parenthesis indicate IDA share.
2/ Consultancy contracts, though internationally procured, are shown under "other".
This also applies to donors other than IDA.
3/ ICB, NCB and "shopping" may apply, depending on size of contracts.
- 20 -



Project Costs bv Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ equivalent)
Expenditure Category    |                  Procurement Method       _ _I
LICBiNCBLOTHER 2lTOTALi
Road Component
Civil Works                  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Equipment & Materials        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Railway Component
Civil Works (incl. ballast for   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
track rehabilitation)
Equipment & Materials        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Port Component
Civil Works                  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Equipment & Materials        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Aviation Component
Civil Works                  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Equipment & Materials        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Total Investment Component
Civil Works                  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Equipment & Materials        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Cons. Services, Technical
Assistance & Training        N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Adiustment Component3'
TOTAL PROJECT COST    N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
Project Preparation Facility    N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
GRAND TOTAL           IN/A   N/A   N/A [N/A   N/A   N/A   N/AIN/A
N/A: Not Available
I/ Amounts in parenthesis indicate IDA share.
2/ Consultancy contracts, though internationally procured, are shown under "other".
This also applies to donors other than IDA.
3/ ICB, NCB and "shopping" may apply, depending on size of contracts.
- 21 -



A praisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimates  Percentage
Compo t IDAI Govt. Cofin.I Total IDA Govt. Cofm. I Total of Appraisal
Investment 48.5 279.1 255.5 583.1 53.4 228.9  88.5 370.8    63.6%
Adjustmnent 15.0        5.0  20.0 15.0         5.0  20.0    100.0%
PPF         1.5               1.5  1.5              1.5    100.0%
[Total    165.0 279.11 260.51604.6 69.9 228.9  93.5 392.31    64.9%
{   Category   Appraisal   Actual/Latest
Category  Estimate    Estimates
Civil Works                24.1          23.0
(Roads)                    22.6          22.4
(Office)                    0.6           0.6
Equipment                   4.0           8.9
Consultant/TA              11.9          16.6
Project Unit                0.0           2.1
PPF                         1.5           1.5
Unallocated                 8.5           0.0
Total Investment           50.0          52.1
Adjustment                 15.0          15.0
[Total                     65.0          67.1
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Traffic data during the 1984-1996 period expressed in vehicles per day. On most sections, traffic has
increased
in a range of 50 percent to 100 percent between 1989 and 1996. On seven sections, traffic has decreased,
however,
which should be investigated.
Donor          1984 | 1988    1989   1993    1996
SECTIONS MAINTAINED WITH EXTERNAL DONOR FINANCING
Ndiakhirat - Mbayakh                    BOADJIDA            -                      1143    1310
Rufisque - RIO x Rtes des Niayes        BOAD/IDA                                    -      1332
Diourbel - Mbacke                       BOADJIDA          792      955     845    1385    1590
Diourbel - Gossas                     BAD/BOAD/IDA        490      607    637      673     731
Touba - Darou Mousty                      BADEA           376      413     401     723     725
Mbacke - Mbar                               BID             -       -      356    273      303
Fatick - Kaolack                        BOADIIDA          1188    1348    1272    1422    1496
Fatick - Thiadiaye                      BOADIIDA          1006    1189    1169    1456    1493
Mbar - Kaffrine                             BID             -       -      208     161     103
Passy - Karang                        BAD/BOAD/IDA          -       -      790     509     499
Kaolack - Kafifrine                         UE            411      554    637    735       770
Kaolack - Gossas                      BAD/ROAD/IDA        574      658    752    881       696
CFN4/N5 - Passy                       BAD/BOAD/IDA          -       -      440    777      610
CFN4/N5 - Nioro                       BAD/BOAD/IDA        693      638     569     897    1146
Kaffrine - Koumpentoum                BAD/BOAD/IDA          -       -      316    440      560
Khombole - Thies                        BOAD/IDA          630      620    711    1364    1091
Bayakh - Mboro                          BOAD/IDA            -       -      290     614     716
Tivaouane - Thies                           UE            589      976    1004    1762    1322
Mbour - Diam Niadio                     BOAD/IDA            -       -     1289    1516   2457
Mekhe - Tivaouane                           UE            599      720    657    968    1000
Tivaouane - Mboro                           UE                             875    956      853
- 23 -



Mekhe - Darou Mamane                      FKDEA                            233     398     302
Linguere - Loumbeul                         UE              -       -      57       85      101
Kebemer - Louga                             UE            987    1043    1038    1396    1329
Lompoul - Kebemer                         BADEA            65      54      46       67      49
Ndoyene - Darou Mousty                    BADEA             -       -      160     352     305
St Louis - Ross Bethio                      UE              -       -      901    1709    1882
Ourosogui - Semme                           UE              -       -      161     236     192
Guede - Ourossogui                          UE              -       -      266     307     339
Richard Toll - Guede                        UE              -       -      265     451     355
CFN4/N5 - Ziguinchor                        UE            466      609     627     554     662
Senoba - CFN4/N5                            UE            295       -      471     318     264
OTHER SECTIONS
Rufisque - Thiaroye                                       5098    6491    6221    7226    7213
Thiaroye - Rufisque                                       5098      -     6080   6938    7305
Bargny - Rufisque                                         3721    3641    4931    6011    5801
Rufisque - Bargny                                         3721    3641    4782    5755    5704
Diam Niadio - Bargny                                      2900    3255    3748   4700    4741
Bargny - Diam Niadio                                      2900    3255    3708    3954    4662
Diourbel - Ndindi                                           -       -      70      77      110
Touba - Mbacke                                              -       -     2540    1988    2511
Mbacke - Touba                                              -       -     2540   2002    2409
Bambey - Mekhe                                              -       -      59      45       68
CFNI - Ndangane                                             -       -      152     193     158
Mbar - Gossas                                             121      137     162     108     128
Diam Niadio - Thies                                       1951    1837   2625   2873    2787
Thies - Diam Niadio                                       1951    1837   2625    2873    2780
CFNI - Somone                                               -       -      434     574     701
Mbour - Joal                                                        -     1216    1438    1897
- 24 -



Ouarack - Dabra                                                          286    212      233
Louga - Potou                                                      -      120     176    253
Louga - Gnith                                              -       -      500    298      351
Touba - Dahra                                            304      307      -      116     624
Dahra - Linguere                                           -       -      197     159     188
Darou Mousty - Darou Marnane                             234     207    245      227      284
Ouarack - Ndoyene                                        234     207    245    269       272
St Louis - Louga                                         837     865    960    1314   2068
Gandiol - CFN12                                            -       -     282    318       357
Ourossogui - Matam                                         -       -     282    255      278
CFN2 -Rosso                                                -       -      103    324      578
Tambacounda - Kidira                                       -       -      38      93      89
CFN6 x N7 - Kedougou                                       -       -      82      105     178
Kidira - Frontiere Mali                                    -       -      30      86      119
Bakel - Semme                                              -       -      34      177     138
Kolda - Tanaf                                              -       -      179    125      181
Kolda - Diana Malari                                      62      53      44      109     144
Kolda - Velingara                                          -       -      118    210     304
Ziguinchor - Mpack                                         -       -      67     274      192
Ziguinchor - Tanaf                                         -       -     547     374      569
Ziguinchor - Oussouye                                      -       -     337    261      618
Oussouye - Cap Skiring                                     -       -     337      47      167
Seleti - Bignona                                                         363     413     290
Traffic data for the port, airport and railways can be found in Annex 10.
-25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage o Project Cyctle            No. of Persons and Specialty             Performne Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count   - Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/87                       2   STE, SBE
01/88                        2   STE, FA
02/89                        5   STE, SHE, RE, AE (Cons), DC
05/89                        2   STE, SHE
Appraisa/Negotiation
12/89                        6   STE, SHE, 2 RE, 2 FA,
07/90                        2   STE, SHE
12/90                       3   STE, SHE, RE
Supervision
03/92                        4  STE, HE, SFA, RE                    S                 S
11/92                        5  STE, RE, PE, FA, HE                 S                 S
04/93                        3  PTE, SRE, HE                        U                 S
07/93                        4  PTE, SRE, PE, HE                    U                 S
05/94                        2  PIE, HE                             U                 S
06/94 (ARPP)                                                        U                 U
03/95                        7  PIE, FA (Cons), TE (Cons),          S                 S
SRE, PE (Cons), HE, E
04/96                        5  PTE, RA, PE/O0, POS, HE             S                 S
06/96 (ARPP)                                                        S                 S
08/96                        2  P;_/OO, SPOS                        S                HS
10/96                        3  POO, SRS, HE                        S                HS
12/96                        6  POO, CE, SPOS, HE, E/FA             S                 S
(Cons), E/Ec
04/97                        4  EFA (Cons), POO, CE, E/Ec           S                 S
07/97                        5  POO, CONS, HE, SPOS, E/Ec           S                 s
12/97                        4  POO, CONS, HE, E/Ec                 S                 S
03/98                        7  2 IS, SPS, HE, POO, CONS, PS        S                 S
12/98                        3  POO, CONS, PS                       S                 S
07/99                        2  2 CONS                              S                 S
11/99                        4      2 HE, OO,                       S                 S
ICR
STE = Sr. Trans. Economist  SHE = Sr. Highway Engineer          FA = Financial Analyst
TE = Transport Economist   HE = Highway Engineer               RE = Railway Engineer
PE = Port Engineer         PTE = Principal Trans. Economist    SRE = Sr. Railway Engineer
E = Economist              RA = Research Assistant                    PE/00 = Pr. Econ/Ops.
Offr.
-26 -



POS = Port Opr. Spec.       SPOS = Sr. Port Opr. Spec.          POO = Pr. Oper. Officer
SRS = Sr. Railway Spec.     CE = Civil Engr. (Intern)           EIFA = Engr./Fin. Analyst
E/Ec = Engineer/Economist   CONS = Consultant                   TS = Transport Specialist
SPS = Sr. Port Spec.        PS = Procurement Specialist         00 = Operation Officer
AE = Aviation Engineer      DC = Division Chief
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             UJS$ (,OO)
Identification/Preparation             193.1                      448.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                  103.0                      252.9
Supervision                           333.1*                    1,208.8*
ICRI
Total                                  629.2                     1,910.6
* Includes Supervision and ICR.
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macropolicies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
EA Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
E Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
M Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
I Preparation                                         OHS OS   OU  O HU
F Government implementation performance               O HS 0S   O  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                   O HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U  O HU
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Rapport d'achevement du Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel des Transports. Ministere de
l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan. July 1999.
Missions' aide-memoire.
Technical audits of the 1998-1999-2000 road maintenance programs.
Project's financial audits.
Second Transport Sector Project. Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 19023-SE. March 10,
1999.
- 30 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey has been carried out
- 31 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Meetings were held with representatives of road contractors, consulting firms, road
transport companies and port shipping and handling companies
1.    Contractors
Nine companies were represented in the meeting. Main issues included the lack of
adequate engineering studies, inappropriate pre-qualification of firms, the poor planning of
maintenance works, deficient procurement procedures, delays in payments, and the lack of
appropriate recourse.
Engineering studies. Detailed engineering studies were not appropriate (too old, too cryptic,
poor quality). In too many cases, conlractors had to redo the engineering studies, resulting in
extra cost and delays. The problem was aggravated by the poor condition of roads. Contractors
hired to do periodic maintenance had to carry out much more expensive rehabilitation instead.
Recommendations. Invest in quality eng;ineering studies and supervise consultants closely. Carry
out study of construction materials in Senegal and establish national standards.
Classification of contractors. Pre-qualification procedures were not adequate. All enterprises
were pre-qualified, even those with no capacity.
Recommendation. Carry out an independent study on the capacity of existing contractors and
classify them according to the nature and complexity of works to be done. Consult with the
profession before finalization. Update lists regularly. This recommendation is in the process of
being implemented.
Planning of works. Poor planning has led to the launching of works too close to the rainy
season and to excessive recourse to emergency procedures.
Recommendation. Prepare multi-year maintenance programs and contracts. A three-year rolling
program of road maintenance is being prepared.
Procurement procedures. Selection ciiteria are not enforced rigorously. Procedures are not
transparent. Too many contracts are let without call for bids. Index for price variation is not
available.
Recoimrendation. Apply transparent and rigorous procedures. Use price as only criterion for
selection of contractors. Consider multi-year road maintenance contracts. Establish a price index
in consultation with the profession.
Payments. All but one firm represented in the meeting complained about unacceptable payment
delays, reaching over one year in some cases.
Recommendation. Pay within three months.
- 32 -



Recourse. Contractors have little recourse when the goverrnent is not meeting its obligations.
An arbitration mechanism at the regional level would be welcome.
2.    Consulting firms
Thirteen firms were represented in the meeting. Major issues discussed included the role
of government, insufficient allocations for preparatory studies, and promotion of local expertise.
Role of government. The governnent does not do a good job in preparing terms of reference for
studies or in supervising consultants. Terms of reference are often far from reality. Government
has a tendency to withhold information. Government concern is too often to put a ceiling on
works to be done, with detrimental consequences for sustainability. Government tends to favor
contractors and to bypass consultants in charge of supervising works.
Government capacity needs to be strengthened, which requires in turn that incentives be
improved. Government should consider contracting out the preparation, bidding and supervision
of maintenance works.
Engineering studies. During project implementation, the government did not allocate sufficient
funds to engineering studies, with detrimental consequences to the quality of works done on the
road network. On the other hand, too much was allocated to technical assistance.
Promotion of local expertise. The theme aroused considerable interest. The issues of donors'
procedures, procurement methods and farming out part of the work program to local consultants
were extensively discussed. Bank procedures were deemed appropriate if properly implemented.
Participants recommended that donors' procedures be better coordinated.
3.    Road transport operators
Thirteen road transport operators participated in the meeting., including truck owners, and
small bus and taxi operators. Participants had a number of complaints, including the poor quality
of the road network, the high cost of operating, maintaining and replacing an over-aged vehicle
fleet, unfair competition from large enterprises, excessive government controls, and the
emergence of mafia behavior forcing operators to pay for protection. Small road operators suffer
from the highly cyclical nature of their trade, focused on the transport of the peanut crop.
Participants recommended that they benefit from tax exemptions for the renewal of the vehicle
fleet for a limited period of time, as did their competitors from Burkina Faso and Mali. They
requested that they be systematically informed and consulted on policy changes.
4.    Port operators.
Port operators agreed that port facilities and administration have significantly improved.
The port of Dakar is competitive compared to Abidjan. However, it is penalized by the poor
performance of the railways, and the lack of a paved road to Bamako in neighboring Mali. In the
- 33 -



1970s the port of Dakar used to account for about 60 percent of the Malian traffic. It is now
down to less than 30 percent. Other constraints include urban congestion around the port, and
more generally in the metropolitan area.
Port administration should fuirther improve. It should focus on maintaining the facilities
and on further reducing cost.
- 34 -



Annex 10. Transport companies; selected performance indicators
During the ICR mission, sector companies were requested to compile a limited list of key
indicators for the period 1991-99. The information is in the tables below, as provided.
Performance indicators (in millions CFAF, unless otherwise indicated)
SNCS (Railways company)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997        1998      1999
Passenger.km (000) 173,034 168,757 139,712 178,730 193,522 103,391   78,312   63,395    70,926
Ton.km (000)     484,982 474,459 392,632 385,964 474,679 474,252  446,375  435,157   400,569
Revenues          10,485  11,023   8,527  10,283  12,695  12,542   12,376   12,439
Value added        7,255   7,261   4,333   6,363   7,019   7,901    7,834    7,779
Operating income    2,475   3,806   1,807   3,448   4,590   4,946    5,029    6,894
Net income         1,947   3,378   1,412   2,744   3,801   4,205    4,333    5,738
Personnel          2239   2176   2196   2167   1919   1658         1648     1587      1525
PAD (Port of Dakar)
Volume (000 tons)    5,355   5,310   4,980   5,007   5,500   6,028    6,168    6,438  7,193
(of which in containers)                                  734       872      905      1,221
Revenues          10,341   7,346   6,230   8,014   9,252  10,511   10,704   11,610
Wage bill          3,455   2,303   2,156   2,304   2,201   2,416    2,839    3,283
% wage bill/Rev.     24      31      34     34      24     23       27        28
Civil Aviation
Passengers Dakar  819,328 878,769 721,501 779,211 834,218 882,197 1,014,586 1,073,103
Freight (tons)    25,355  23,765  20,438  19,526  23,051  27,372   26,651   25,604
Revenues ASECNA                          4,022   4,933   5,418    5,850    7,087     7,176
(of which fees)    2,700   2,935   2,490   3,172   4,054   4,389    4,722    5,929   6,399
Air Senegal
Passengers               54,938  35,695  39,148  42,597  49,952   36,485   42,404
Revenues                  1,915   1,246   1,944   2,024   2,692    1,810    2,198
Net income                  -65   -140   -632    414       58   -1,102   -1,706
- 35 -



