CREDIT NUMBER 2266 SE
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 F     , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2266 SE
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into
a Development Credit Agreement (Transport Sector Adjustment/
Investment Credit), dated July 22, 1991, as amended (the Development
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of
the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
million six hundred and eighty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,680,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of subsection (s),
substituting "; and" for "'." at the end of subsection (t), and
adding a new subsection (u) as follows:
"(u) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending
the Development Credit Agreement (Transport Sector Adjust-
ment/Investment  Credit)   between  the  Borrower   and  the
Association, dated  tt,, 1994."


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-two million five hundred and
eighty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 52,580,000) (the
Credit), which includes an original amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-nine million nine hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 49,900,000) (the Initial
Financing), and an additional amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million six hundred and eighty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,680,000) (the Additional
Financing)."
Section 1.03. An additional proviso is added at the end of
Section 2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as
follows:
";provided, however, that any commitment charge on the
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after
the date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
"6. After a date twelve months from the date of this
Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no
commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. At
any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrowers cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been
executed.


﻿-4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                  I
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


