                                                                                                              99864




Better Business Environment in FYR Macedonia
Valentina Pavlovic's company has been in business for eight
years, working with electrical equipment, installing and
maintaining wiring in companies and apartment buildings, and       Multimedia
making sure that streets in a number of municipalities are
never dark.

"It hasn't been easy. Besides taking care of our own
development as a company, we had to spend a lot of time on
satisfying the requirements of different regulations and
backward administration. We had to fight the bureaucracy
every step of the way," Valentina starts her story.                Doing Business in FYR Macedonia for
                                                                   Sustainable Employment and Growth
Valentina's company faced many of the same challenges as           (Video)
other companies in FYR Macedonia, such as an inefficient
and unresponsive bureaucracy, significant regulatory
burdens, and a weak judicial system resulting in increased
costs and time of doing business. This impeded the private
sector's ability to invest and grow. In addition, the outdated
national quality and accreditation system limited the ability of
companies to control the quality of imported goods or to
                                                                   Photo Gallery
certify that the quality of goods for export met the necessary
international standards.
                                                                   Related Links
To respond to the concerns of thousands of companies
similar to the one Valentina manages, the Government and       Business Environment Reform and
the World Bank put together a plan that combined policy and    Institutional Strengthening Project
legislative changes with targeted investments. The World       Central Registry
Bank's Business Environment Reform and Institutional           Ministry of Economy
Strengthening (BERIS) project assisted the Government in
implementing this plan. The BERIS project was closely linked
with other World Bank financed operations aimed at ensuring a better business environment, such as
the land and real estate registration and judicial reform.

                         The BERIS project focused on cutting the red tape and bureaucracy hurdles for
                         the enterprises, strengthening the Government's capacity to implement a
                         European Union-compliant industrial policy, improving the national metrology,
                         standards, testing, and quality infrastructure and services, and on facilitating
                         better access to information, the lack of which caused increased transaction
                         costs and impeded sound investment decisions.

                         Results followed as the work proceeded in parallel in several areas. In the policy
Valentina Pavlovic       area, the protection of investors was strengthened and the Company Law was
                         revised in line with the European Union requirements. Also, the Strategy for
Industrial Policy was developed, putting the country in line with other EU member countries.

To reduce red tape, Regulatory Impact Assessments were carried out for over 100 new laws and by-
laws. As a result, 56 laws and 481 by-laws were streamlined by the 'Regulatory Guillotine', which was
introduced through the project. New calibration equipment for the Bureau of Metrology made it possible
to provide superior calibration services to companies in line with the EU quality standards, enhancing
their export potential and competitiveness.

But what was most felt by the businesses were the changes in easing their dealings with the state
administration. A One-Stop-Shop was created at the Central Registry, with an interconnection with the
Employment Agency and health and pension insurance funds. This means that today, Valentina and her
colleagues and counterparts can have all their dealings related to employees done electronically, from
the comfort of their offices. For those who want to start a new business, business registration has been
simplified and shortened to one day.

"The last few years have been difficult for the private sector because we had to cope with the
consequences of the global financial crisis," says Valentina Pavlovic. "But, at the same time, doing
business has become much easier. A large part of the paperwork is gone, and I can do most of it from
my office."

Changes were recognized by all. The country's progress in improving the business environment was
assessed positively in the annual Progress Report of the European Union. Also, the country was ranked
as a "Top Reformer" in the World Bank's "Doing Business" reports as it made a huge jump from 92nd
place in 2006 to 38th in 2011, the best ranking in the Balkans. The country now ranks 11th in the world
on the cumulative level of regulatory improvement accomplished in the past five years; and 5th in
"starting a business."
