FYR Macedonia: The Business Environment Reform and Institutional Strengthening Project
                                                                                                       96084
                                                                                                      October 20, 2010


 DOING BUSINESS

 Doing Business in FYR Macedonia for Sustainable Employment
 and Growth




Overview
The Government of FYR Macedonia has been implementing an ambitious program to improve
the business environment and attract a higher level of investments to stimulate employment
and growth in the country. In addition, the path to European Union accession requires capacity
to develop and implement an efficient regulatory environment, which would stimulate business
entry, investment, and growth. The Business Environment Reform and Institutional
Strengthening Project was designed to help build this capacity.


Challenges                                           MULTIMEDIA
FYR Macedonia is a small transition economy. In      Loading the player ...
the early days of independence, the country
experienced hyperinflation, border conflicts, and
civil disturbances. In spite of the turmoil of the
last decade, successive governments have
embarked upon an ambitious reform program
aimed at transforming the country into a market
economy. State-owned and socially-owned
enterprises have been privatized, markets
liberalized, and reforms in the financial sector
have led to a stronger and more viable banking
system. At the same time, the Government has
achieved and maintained macroeconomic                MORE
stability.                                             Slideshow: Doing Business in FYR Macedonia
Despite these achievements, the economy faces
numerous challenges, such as a weak judicial
sector, low competitiveness in an increasingly global market,
slow materialization of foreign direct investments, and            More Results
significant regulatory and institutional weaknesses that
reduce investor confidence and affect the private sector’s
ability to compete. In addition, national Metrology,
Standardization, Testing and Quality (MSTQ) system is             MORE INFORMATION
outdated, which deprives the Macedonian enterprises of the          Business Environment Reform
appropriate means to control the quality of imported goods or       and Institutional Strengthening
to certify that the quality of their exported goods meets           Project
required standards.                                                 Project Profile [pdf]

                                                                    FYR Macedonia Results Profiles
Approach                                                            Country Partnership Strategy
The World Bank provided assistance with policy reforms and          2011-2014 
capacity building through a combination of complementary            World Bank FYR Macedonia
investment and policy lending. The Business Environment                       web site
Reform and Institutional Strengthening (BERIS) project
assisted the Government in implementing selected policy
areas supported by a parallel series of Development Policy
Loans. The BERIS was also closely linked with other related                
operations, such as for land and real estate registration and
judicial reform, aimed at ensuring a better business
environment.
The project has focused on:
      Business Regulation – strengthening Government's capacity to establish and implement a business
      friendly regulatory regime by streamlining obsolete or cumbersome business regulation and the
      development of business friendly risk-based regulations;
      Metrology, Standards, Testing, and Quality (MSTQ) system – addressing the enterprise sector's
      difficulties in competing in domestic and foreign markets related to poor national metrology, standards,
      testing, and quality infrastructure and services;
      Enterprise and Industrial Policy and Competitiveness Support – strengthening the Government’s capacity
      to implement a European Union-compliant industrial policy, as well as enterprise competitiveness
      support, and competition regimes;
      Access to Information – addressing poor access to information which results in increased transaction
      costs and/or impedes sound investment decisions.



Results
The project has made substantial progress toward achieving its development objectives.
“Over the past five years since the beginning of the BERIS Project, we accomplished notable
improvements in the business environment by considerably simplifying and streamlining the
regulatory environment for opening, operating and closing a business,” said Sylvie
Bossoutrot, leader of the World Bank project team . “It also succeeded in reducing red tape
through the ‘guillotine’ of existing cumbersome and outdated regulations, and the introduction
of a modern risk-based approach to new regulation through the mandatory use of a systematic
cost-benefit analysis of all new legislation, also known as a Regulatory Impact Assessment.
This has already led to – and will further translate into – significant reductions in the cost of
doing business. In addition, Macedonia started to upgrade its quality infrastructure and access
to business information, which are likewise critical elements for the development of a vibrant
and competitive enterprise sector. In doing so, Macedonia has moved closer to EU standards
and increased the attractiveness of its marketplace to private investment. The BERIS Project
team is pleased with these accomplishments and proud of the World Bank’s contribution to the
reform agenda. Macedonia's excellent performance was also very importantly recognized and
reflected in both the Doing Business Report 2010 and the Progress Report of the European
Union.”
Specifically, the following results have been accomplished:
      Investor protection was strengthened and the Company Law was revised in line with the European Union
      requirements.
      To reduce red tape, Regulatory Impact Assessments were carried out for over 100 new laws and by-
      laws, and 56 laws and 481 by-laws were streamlined by the ‘Regulatory Guillotine’.
      The Strategy for Industrial Policy 2009-2010 was developed and adopted by the Government, in line with
      the EU acquis communautaires (Chapter 20).
      Business registration has been simplified and shortened to one day through the creation of a one-stop-
      shop at the Central Registry, and an interconnection is operational with the Employment Agency and
      social funds (health and pension insurance). A Disaster Recovery System was implemented providing
      back-up of all business registration data of the Central Registry.
      The One-Stop-Shop Phase 2, under implementation, will establish electronic registration of businesses,
      employees, as well as leasing, pledge, and bankruptcy registries.
      New calibration equipment for the Bureau of Metrology will broaden the calibration services to
      companies in line with EU requirements and quality standards and will increase their export potential and
      competitiveness.

FYR Macedonia’s progress in the reforms in the business environment was assessed positively
in the 2009 Progress Report of the European Union (released in October 2009), noting
specifically good progress in the areas addressed by the Project. Also, in the Doing Business
Report 2010, FYR Macedonia was the top third reformer globally, moving up from 69th to 32nd
place on the ease of doing business, with significant progress in seven out of ten reform areas
as measured by the Report.
“The last few years have been difficult for the private sector because we had to cope with the
consequences of the global financial crisis,” said Maja Dimitrirevska, businesswoman from
Skopje. “But, at the same time, doing business has never been easier. A large part of the
paperwork is gone, and I can do most of it from my office.”
 
Towards the Future
The World Bank will continue to support Macedonia on its economic growth path and
accession to the European Union. World Bank support will focus on continued improvements in
the business regulatory environment and enterprise competitiveness, notably through
assistance in “green” growth initiatives, strengthening of the country's innovation system,
investments in infrastructure, and by helping leverage other international donor resources
through its recently adopted Program Based Approach in the area of business environment,
competitiveness, and innovation.
 

 
