Report No. PIC4973
Project name                     Brazil-Water Sector Modernization II
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       BRPA43420
Borrower                         The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing agency              Secretary of Urban Policy (SEPURB) of the
Ministry of Planning and Budget (MPO)
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco A-Sala 207
70048-900 Brasilia DF
Brasil
Ms. Dilma Seli Pereira,
Diretor Departamento de Saneamento
Phone: 55-61-315-1778/1782
Fax: 55-61-322-2024
Date this PID prepared           February 13, 1997
Project appraisal date           March 31, 1997
Project Board date               June 17, 1997
Country and Sector Background:   The main Federal agency
overseeing the sector is the Secretariat of Urban Policy (SEPURB),
created under the Ministry of Planning in 1995. Under the
decentralized scheme, SEPURB's role is to: (i) set the national
policy; (ii) coordinate sector activities with different Federal
institutions and with state and municipal governments; and (iii)
set guidelines and criteria for Federal funds to be applied in the
sector. Water and sewerage service is provided primarily by state
water companies (SWCs), which dominate nearly 80t of the market.
The rest of the market is served by municipalities and municipal agencies.
Water supply and sewerage network coverage today is around 90t for
water and 489 for sewerage. These figures compare favorably with
other Latin American countries in the same income level. The degree
of development, however, is uneven between water supply and
sewerage, north and south, and especially between the rich and the
poor. Sewerage network coverage falls much behind water, and only
about 20t of collected sewage is treated. Much of the collected
sewage is dumped in the nearby water basins. Service coverage in
the north, northeast and center-west regions fall behind the
richer, south and southeast regions. In addition, the poor are
largely left out from the public water supply and sewerage services.
The approval of the Concession Law (8,987) in February 1995 was a
sudden wake-up call for the SWCs which enjoyed total monopoly since
their creation 25 to 30 years ago. According to the new Law, once
the existing concession contracts are expired, the granting
authorities must bid out the contract publicly. The lack of clear
contractual agreements between the SWCs and the municipalities
specifying service extension targets and quality standards (the
common practice in any private concession agreement) is the key
issue addressed by the application if the Concession Law or the
water sector.



Project Objectives:      The main objectives of the loan are: (i)
establishment of a competitive and efficiently regulated sector
environment in order to encourage private sector participation, and
a more efficient and decentralized provision of services; (ii)
reach water and sewerage coverage levels in the project
implementation areas served by participating states
(municipalities) equal to the current coverage levels of population
in the eighth decil of its income distribution; and (iii) improve
water quality in states (municipalities) served by the
participating utilities.
Project Description:     This loan will include the following
components which will apply to any utility providing W&S services
in the N, NE, & CW regions: (i) management and promotion; (ii)
water sector institutional and regulatory reform, including private
sector participation; (iii) operational development to eligible
utilities willing to increase efficiency, improve cash flow and
demonstrate creditworthiness; and (iv) investment of eligible
utilities to expand water supply production and distribution and
sewage collection, treatment and final disposal.
Project Financing:       The total project cost is estimated to be
US$300 million, which US$150 million will be financed by IBRD,
US$45 million by the water utilities and US$105 million by OECF.
Sewerage investments would be repaid 50t by the utilities and 50t
by the Federal Government.
Project Implementation: The Federative Republic of Brasil will be
the borrower, and SEPURB/MPO the executing agency. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) from the ongoing Water Sector Modernization
Project (WSM) has been reinforced, expanded and reorganized to also
be in charge of preparing and implementing WSM II. Regional Project
Management Units, managed by a federal official, would be
established after appraisal to assist the PMU to complete project
preparation, ensure a fast and efficient project launch and carry
over a close and efficient project supervision. Bank funds, as well
as 50t of OECF funds, will be transferred from the Federal
Government to the utilities will on the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan.
Project Sustainability: Sustainability is explained by the fact
that the Federal Government views WSM II as its key project in the
effort to advance and consolidate a lasting institutional and
regulatory reform of the sector. Sustainability will also be
supported by the project focus on significantly increasing the
water and sewerage coverage in the project implementation areas, as
well as improving the operational efficiency of the water
companies.
Lessons Learned:         The following lessons learned are reflected in
the project design: (i) the performance of even the best prepared
projects will turn to be unsatisfactory if there is lack of local
counterpart funding; (ii) strict adherence to loan covenants and
project rules is necessary to project success; (iii) as few as
possible conditions of effectiveness improves quality at entry;
- 2-



(iv) procurement risks should be minimized; and (v) few, simple and
practical performance indicators make supervision more objective
and efficient.
Poverty Category: The project does have a direct impact on poverty
reduction.
Environmental Aspects: This project is classified as a category
"A". The project will finance a wide variety of rehabilitation and
construction of water and sanitation facilities. A preliminary
environmental screening of around 15 projects identified two
proposed projects with siting/effluent issues, which would
categorize them as Category "A" if stand-alone projects.
Program Objectives Categories: Besides Poverty Alleviation,
the project also seeks to improve Economic Management and support
Private Sector Development and Environmentally Sustainable
Development.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 3 -



