Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER  29517
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Water Sector Modernization II Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated December 20, 1996
TRUST FUND NUMBER  29517
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1996, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds 
provided by JAPAN (Japan).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A)  pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement; and
WHEREAS (B)  Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank for Reconstruction 
Page  3
and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dollars; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
“SEPURB” means the Recipient’s Secretaria
de
Política
Urbana
which is 
subordinated to the Recipient’s Ministry of Budget and Planning.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01.  The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of six hundred 
thousand Dollars ($600,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the carrying out of the Technical Assistance 
and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Technical Assistance, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1997, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Recipient’s Minister of Budget and Planning and any other person or 
persons designated by such Minister are designated as representatives of the Recipient for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section  
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01.  The Recipient shall, through SEPURB, carry out the Technical Assistance 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and water 
sector institutional practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Technical Assistance.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Page  5
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Termination
Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministério de Fazenda
Page  6
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco P, 8
°
 andar
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
MINIFAZ
  611506
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
With copy to:
Secretaria de Política Urbana
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco A, sala 207
70054-900  Brasília, D.F. 
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Itamar Barbalho
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  7
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to such Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in  Dollars )
to be Financed
Consultants'
600,000
100 %
 services
TOTAL
600,000
2.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for services of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000, and for services of individual consultants costing less than the 
equivalent of $50,000, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
Schedule 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of the Water Sector Modernization 
II Project, covering the following activities:
(a)
study of existing institutional arrangements (including the regulatory framework) 
of the water and sewerage sector in selected states and municipalities of the Recipient;
(b)
proposal of a new regulatory and institutional framework for the water and 
sewerage sector, such proposal to take into account, inter alia, the following aspects: regulatory 
and control mechanisms, tariff pricing policy and role of the regulatory agencies;
(c)
study of the water and sewerage service providers in selected states and 
Page  8
municipalities of the Recipient, including, inter alia, an analysis of the operational and financial 
performance of the water utilities, identification of problems related to their operations and 
financial performance and a set of corresponding recommendations of actions and options to be 
contemplated by the Recipient and by the Recipient’s selected states and municipalities; 
(d)
proposal of alternatives for institutional and management arrangements for the 
provision of water and sewerage services, including, inter alia, municipalization, regionalization 
and types of private sector participation;
(e)
evaluation of, as well as recommendations on, the existing tariff structures for 
water and sewerage services in selected states and municipalities of the Recipient; 
(f)
proposal of a medium and long-term investment plan, including financial 
requirements, for the water and sewerage sector; and
(g)
identification of investment programs to be financed under the proposed project 
and development of the corresponding engineering designs for such programs.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For 
complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank for the use of its 
borrowers with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts by the Administrator, 
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior review by 
the Administrator shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  9
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category” means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the 
amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  10
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Technical 
Assistance, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Page  11
Conditions.
