Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
July 17, 2003 
 
Mr. Antonio Palocci Filho 
Minister of Finance 
Ministério da Fazenda 
Esplanada dos Ministérios-Bloco “P”- 8
o
andar 
70048-900, Brasilia, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Dear Mr. Minister: 
 
Re: Loan No. 4292-BR (Second Water Sector Modernization 
 
Project- PMSS II) - First Amendment to the Loan Agreement 
 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement) between the 
Federative Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated June 16, 1999, providing for a 
loan in the amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) for the 
above-captioned Project.  Whenever used in this letter, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement shall have the respective meanings set forth therein.  
 
Based on discussions held between the Borrower and the Bank during 2001, 
as reflected in recommendation (
recomendação
)
No. 574 dated 21 June 21, 2001 of 
the Borrower’s 
Comissão de Financiamentos Externos
,
as well as notice (
oficio
)
No. 
039 dated July 12, 2001 of the Borrower’s 
Co
missão de Financiamentos Externos
,
and the letters received from the Borrower’s 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda 
Nacional 
dated October 1 and 9, 2001, the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan 
Agreement as set forth in the Attachment to this letter.  The proposed amendment 
also reflects the cancellation, effective on October 9, 2001, of the amount of one 
hundred twenty five million Dollars ($125,000,000) from the Loan. 
 
Page  2
2
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Borrower, by signing and dating the two originals of this letter and returning one 
fully signed original to us.  The amendment set forth in this letter will become 
effective as of the first date written  
Page  3
3
above upon receipt by the Bank of (i) one original of this letter duly countersigned 
by the Borrower, and (ii) an updated Operational Manual (satisfactory to the Bank) 
reflecting the changes in the Project as per this amendment. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/Vinod Thomas 
Director 
Brazil Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED
:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/Candice Lavocat Galvão Jobin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Date:  August 1, 2003 
 
With copy to: 
 
Mr. Guido Mantega 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" – 5º. andar 
70040-906, Brasilia, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Mr. Olivio Dutra 
Ministério das Cidades 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco A, Sala 205 – Gabinete do Ministro 
70150-900, Brasília- D.F. 
Brazil 
Page  4
4
Mr. Demian Fiocca 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" – 5º. andar 
70040-906, Brasilia, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Mr. Amaury Bier 
Executive Director 
World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
 
Page  5
5
LOAN NUMBER 4292 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Water Sector Modernization Project - PMSS II) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 16, 1999 
(as amended on July 17, 2003) 
Page  6
6
LOAN NUMBER 4292 - BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1999 (as amended on July 17, 2003), between 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
through a letter dated February 15, 2002 
from the Borrower’s 
Special Secretary of Urban Development of the Presidency to the Bank, the 
Borrower presented to the Bank its national water and wastewater policy (the 
National Water Policy) which indicates, inter alia, the Borrower’s commitment to, 
and guidelines for, the introduction of reforms in the Borrower’s water sector, as 
described in the National Water Policy; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
 
“Section 6.03.  
Cancellation by the Bank
.
If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
Page  7
7
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of 
the Loan shall be canceled.”  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Institutional Reform Activity” means an activity selected by the 
Borrower and approved by the Bank, pursuant to the criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), and referred to in Part A 
of the Project; 
 
(b) 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated January 
22, 1998 (as amended from time to time upon agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank) containing, inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the 
Project, and the criteria for the selection and procedures for the carrying out of 
Institutional Reform Activities; 
 
(c) 
“Participating Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s 
Municipalities which benefit from the Project; 
 
(d) 
“Participating State” means any of the Borrower’s States which 
benefit from the Project; 
 
(e) 
“Participating Utilities” means any of the Borrower’s providers of 
water and sanitation services which benefit from the Project; 
 
Page  8
8
(f) 
“PMU” means the Project management unit established pursuant to 
Ministry of Planning and Budget’s 
Portaria
 No. 73 of December 11, 1997 and 
Portaria
 No. 70 of December 21, 2000; and 
 
(g) 
“Project Monitoring Letter” means the letter dated February 12, 
1998  (as amended on September 25, 2001), issued by the Borrower’s former 
Secretariat of Urban Policy of the Ministry of Planning and Budget to the Bank, 
setting forth the indicators and targets to be used in monitoring the progress of the 
implementation of the Project and in the evaluation of its results, as such letter may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty five million 
Dollars ($25,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02.The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 
2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
Section 2.03.The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2007 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04.The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.05.(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from 
and including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
Page  9
9
initial period, each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest 
Period, the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in single currency for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each 
Interest Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions 
thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the 
interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the 
Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Page  10
10
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower’s Minister of the Cities, and the person or 
persons designated in writing by such Minister, are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
11
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the Borrower’s Minister of the Cities with the assistance of 
the Participating States, Participating Municipalities and Participating Utilities, as 
the case may be, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with: (i) the 
National Water Policy; (ii) the Operational Manual; and (iii) appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and social practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project, the 
Project Management Unit (the PMU), with staffing, responsibilities and functions 
(including the terms of reference of its coordinator and managers) satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
(c) 
In case of conflict between the provisions of the Operational Manual 
and the ones of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. Whenever a Participating State or Participating Municipality 
qualifies to benefit from an Institutional Reform Activity, the technical assistance 
under such Institutional Reform Activity shall be promptly provided, free of 
charge, by the Borrower to such Participating State or Participating Municipality. 
 
Section 3.04. Whenever a Participating Utility qualifies to benefit from an 
Institutional Reform Activity, the technical assistance under such Institutional 
Reform Activity shall be provided, free of charge, by the Borrower to such 
Participating Utility . 
 
Section 3.05. In the selection and carrying out of Institutional Reform 
Activities, the Borrower shall comply, inter alia, with the relevant provisions and 
specific procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.  
 
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
Page  12
12
 
(a) 
not later than December 31, 2002, contract consultants (in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) to 
evaluate,  throughout Project implementation and based upon the corresponding 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, the progress achieved in 
reforming the institutional and regulatory framework of the Participating States, 
Participating Municipalities or the institutional organization of the Participating 
Utilities, as the case may be; and 
 
(b) 
cause such consultants to report annually to the Bank, through the 
PMU, on the activities referred to in paragraph (a) above, including the provision of 
recommendations on specific corrective actions where required. 
 
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) 
and 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
in the months of March and September of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank reports on the progress in the implementation 
of the Project (the report to be presented in September to include the report or 
reports, as the case may be, referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement) which 
shall take into consideration the indicators and targets set forth in the Project 
Monitoring Letter, and to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request; and 
 
(b) 
during the first and the third quarters of each year during Project 
implementation, hold reviews with the Bank (the review to take place in the first 
quarter of the year 2004 to be the mid-term review), such reviews to be based on 
the applicable report referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take or 
cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Bank, during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as 
necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its 
objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed 
upon during such reviews. 
 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation  thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, an 
analysis of the impact of the Project on the future development of the water and 
wastewater sector of the Borrower; and 
 
Page  13
13
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said analysis. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying 
out of the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
Page  14
14
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; 
and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 5.01.Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 5.02.The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar 
 
70048-900, Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
Page  15
15
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar 
 
70040-906, Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Ministério das Cidades 
Gabinete do Ministro 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “A”, sala 205 
70054-900Brasília - D.F. 
Brazil 
Page  16
16
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  
Consultants’ Services 
under Institutional 
Reform Activities  
 
17,000,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 85% 
of local expenditures 
 
(2)  Goods and Consultants’ 
Services under Part B 
of the Project 
 
6,000,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 85% 
of local expenditures 
 
(3)  Unallocated 
    2,000,000 
 
 
TOTAL 25,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower; and  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) 
goods costing less than $350,000 equivalent (other than the first two contracts for 
Page  17
17
goods to be awarded); (ii) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; and (iii) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. 
 
Page  18
18
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the overall efficiency of the 
Borrower’s water sector by, in particular, strengthening the sector regulations and 
increasing the private sector participation in the investment and management of the 
sector.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Institutional and Regulatory Reform 
Carrying out technical assistance projects, through the provision of 
consultants’ services in support of water sector institutional and regulatory 
activities at the federal, state, municipal and utility levels, including inter alia the 
activities indicated below: 
 
1. 
At the federal government level:  
 
(a) 
formulation and implementation of national policies for the water 
and sanitation sector; 
 
(b) 
elaboration of the legal and regulatory framework related to the 
provision of water and sanitation services, including the preparation and 
implementation of studies related to the proposition of laws, rules, guidelines, 
general procedures, parameters, and standards; 
 
(c) 
 national sector planning; 
 
(d) 
preparation and implementation of studies with relevance to water 
and sanitation sector at the state, municipal and Participating Utilities level, such as 
studies regarding: 
 
(i) demand; 
 
(ii) 
costs, tariffs and subsidies; 
 
(iii) 
market structure, competition and competitiveness; 
 
Page  19
19
(iv) 
services provision assessments, including quality, efficiency 
and users’ satisfaction; and 
 
(v) 
development of agencies, associations and consortia for 
service provision and regulation, such as micro-regional 
companies and state-wide regulators;  
 
(e) 
encouragement for the private sector participation in the provision of water 
services; 
 
(f) 
development of information systems and data bases for the water, 
sanitation and the solid waste sectors; 
 
(g) 
development and implementation of a utility rating data base and a 
yardstick regulation system 
(performance based comparison); 
 
(h) 
development of environmental management programs; 
 
(i) 
carrying out of training and capacity building programs, including the 
organization and promotion of, and the participation in, events of sector related interest; 
and 
 
(j) 
provision of support to activities and programs of sector related interest, 
including publications and dissemination of new technologies and methodologies. 
 
2. 
At the state and municipal level: 
 
(a) 
formulation of water and sanitation policies and strategic planning; 
(b) elaboration of the legal and regulatory framework related to the provision of 
water and sanitation services; (c) establishment of, or support to, existing sector 
regulatory entities as the case may be, including the carrying out of capacity 
building activities and training of staff; (d) development and implementation of 
sector institutional reorganization and service provision reforms; and (e) activities 
included under Part A.1 above, related to the improvement and organization of the 
water sector as applicable to the state and municipal levels. 
 
3. 
At the Participating Utilities level: 
 
(a) 
carrying out of activities to foster strategic planning, structural 
reorganization and development of corporate governance; (b) carrying out of technical and 
legal studies related to private sector participation in the provision of water services, 
including access to capital markets, preparation of bidding documents, procedures and 
concessions or other legal agreements, and assistance in the negotiations of water related 
agreements; (c) carrying out of environmental management programs; (d) provision of 
technical assistance for the preparation of water and sanitation investment plans and 
Page  20
20
projects; (e) carrying out of studies for technological updating and improvement of service 
operations and utility management; (f) carrying out of studies for technical, commercial, 
financial, accounting and information systems related to regulatory obligations; and (g) 
training of staff in connection to (or as required by)  the activities listed in this paragraph. 
 
Page  21
21
 
Part B
:
Management and Promotion
Management of the implementation, coordination and supervision of Project 
activities, including, inter alia, the promotion and dissemination of Project 
experiences, through the provision of consultants’ services and equipment. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
Page  22
22
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)
*
On each September 15 and March 15 
 
beginning September 15, 2003 
 
 
through March 15, 2013 
 
 
 
1,250,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  23
23
SCHEDULE 4
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 
and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$350,000  equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 
equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of 
goods under this Part C.1, standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall 
be used. 
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
pursuant to Part C.1 hereof:  
 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price 
and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those 
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and 
the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
 
Page  24
24
 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in 
Brazil; 
 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios
)
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the 
Bank in each case; 
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% 
the quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale. 
 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods awarded under Part B of Section 
I
of this Schedule; (ii) the first two contracts for goods under Part C.1 of said 
Section I; and (iii) the first two contracts for goods under Part C.2 of said Section I; 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  25
25
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Part E
:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import 
taxes includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant 
Marine (
Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante
), established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as 
amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, may have substituted it -in whole or in part- after 
January 1, 1988, or may substitute it –in whole or in part- as of the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality-and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of a routine nature such as audits and the set-up of data bases estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services related to the carrying out of training and capacity building programs, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
Page  26
26
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
