                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001083




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (LOAN IBRD-42920)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                 (RESTRUCTURED AMOUNT US$ 25 MILLION)

                                     TO THE

                       FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                    FOR THE

       SECOND WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT - PMSS II



                                  April 30, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Unit Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 18, 2009)

                             Currency Unit = Reais (R$)
                                   R$ 2.30 = US$ 1.00
                                 US$ 0.43 = R$ 1.00

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 to December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BNDES      Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social ­ National Bank for Economic
           and Social Development
AGESPISA   Piaui State WSS utility
CAIXA      Caixa Econômica Federal
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CAERN      Rio Grande do Norte State WSS utility
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
EA         Environmental Assessment
COMPESA    Pernambuco State WSS utility
GoB        Federal Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IPEA       Instituto de Pesquisa Econômica Aplicada - Institute for Applied Economic Research
LRF        Lei da Responsabilidade Fiscal - Fiscal Responsibility Law
MDG        Millennium Development Goals
MoC        Ministry of Cities
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MTR        Mid Term Review
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
N, NE & CW North, Northeast and Center-West
NGO        Non-Government Organization
OECF       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PAC        Program for the Acceleration of Growth
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PLANASA    Plano Nacional de Saneamento - National Water Supply & Sanitation Program
PMSS       Projeto de Modernização do Setor de Saneamento - Water Sector Modernization Project
PMU        Project Management Unit
PSP        Private Sector Participation
PPAR       Project Performance Assessment Report
RECESA     National Training Network
SEPURB     Secretaria de Política Urbana - Secretariat for Urban Policy
SEDU/PR    Special Secretaria Especial de Desenvolvimento Urbano da Presidência - Secretariat for
           Urban Development of the Presidents Office
SNSA       National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation

SNIS   National Water and Sanitation Information System
SFC    Secretaria Federal de Controle ­ Federal Control Secretariat
TA     Technical Assistance
TOR    Terms of Reference
UFW    Unaccounted for Water
UGP    Unidade de Gestão do Projeto - Project Management Unit
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
WRM    Water Resources Management
WSS    Water Supply and Sanitation

             Vice President:             Pamela Cox
             Country Director:           Makhtar Diop
             Sector Manager:             Guang Zhe Chen
             Project Team Leader:        Carlos Velez
             ICR Team Leader:            Patricia Lopez

                      FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL


     SECOND WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT - PMSS II


                                              CONTENTS
Datasheet

 A. Basic Information ..............................................................................i
 B. Key Dates .......................................................................................i
 C. Rating Summary.................................................................................i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes .....................................................................ii
 E. Bank Staff .......................................................................................ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis.................................................................iii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs.....................................................iv
 H. Restructuring (if any) ..........................................................................iv
 I. Disbursement Profile ..........................................................................vi

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................16
 6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........22

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...........................................................................23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................24
 Annex 3. Context at Appraisal ......................................................................................34
 Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................39
 Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............40
 Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................42
 Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................43
 Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR .........................................................................45
 Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................62
 Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents.....................................................................63

A. Basic Information

                                                                                    Brazil ­ Second

Country:               Brazil                         Project Name:                 Water Sector
                                                                                    Modernization
                                                                                    Project
Project ID:            P043420                        L/C/TF Number(s):             IBRD-42920
ICR Date:              02/18/2009                     ICR Type:                     Core ICR
                                                                                    Federative
Lending Instrument: SIL                               Borrower:                     Republic of
                                                                                    Brazil
Original Total
Commitment:            US$ 150.0 million              Disbursed Amount1:            US$ 25 million

1The Project was restructured in 2002 as a Technical Assistance project for US$ 25 million. Therefore
the disbursed amount is the full amount of the Loan
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Secretaria Nacional de Saneamento Ambiental
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: NA

B. Key Dates

      Process                Date                Process        Original Date      Revised / Actual
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:          11/21/1996        Effectiveness:         09/16/1999            09/16/1999
Appraisal:               04/22/1997        Restructuring(s):      12//12/2002           12/12/2002
Approval:                03/05/1998        Mid-term Review:       05/16/2005            05/16/2005
                                           Closing:               06/30/2004            10/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                     Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Moderately SatisfactoryGovernment:                 Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                Implementing
                                                    Agency/Agencies:         Satisfactory


                                                    i

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
at any time (Yes/No):               No         (QEA):                      Satisfactory

Problem Project at any                         Quality of
time (Yes/No):                     Yes         Supervision (QSA):             None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:       Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                8                  65
Sewerage                                                        53                   0
Sub-national government administration                           3                  35
Water supply                                                    36                   0


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                               Primary           Primary
Other financial and private sector development                 Primary           Primary
Other urban development                                        Primary          Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health                  Primary         Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                              Primary           Primary

E. Bank Staff

         Positions                        At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                             David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Makhtar Diop                           Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:           Guang Zhe Chen                         Abel Mejia
Project Team Leader:      Carlos E. Velez                        Carlos E. Velez
ICR Team Leader:          Patricia Lopez




                                              ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1. Strengthen regulation, increase private sector participation (PSP) in investment and
   management, and improve the overall efficiency of Brazil's water supply and
   sewerage sector.
2. Within the North, Northeast and Center-West (N, NE and CW) regions increase the
   coverage levels of water supply and sewage collection and treatment services of
   participating utilities.
3. Within the North, Northeast and Center-West regions, improve the quality of water
   bodies located in states and municipalities served by participating utilities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

1. To improve the overall efficiency of the water sector by, in particular, strengthening
   sector regulations and increasing private sector participation in the investment and
   management of the sector.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
  Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 : States and municipalities with new legal and regulatory frameworks approved by
                the legislative
Value           0                        At least 10 states At least 12   15 states and 35
quantitative or                          and 4              states and 6 municipalities
Qualitative)                             municipalities     municipalities
Date achieved 12/31/1997                 03/06/1998         05/16/2005    10/31/2008
Indicator 2 : People in the N, NE and CW regions receiving WSS services from private sector
                operators (under concessions, affermage, management or BOT/BOOT contracts)
Value           0.2 million with water   At least 2 million At least 3    3.8 million
quantitative or supply and sewerage      people             million people
Qualitative)    services
Date achieved 12/31/1997                 03/06/1998         05/16/2005    10/31/2008




                                               iii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                         Actual
No.       Date ISR
          Archived                   DO                         IP                   Disbursements
                                                                                     (USD millions)
  1      06/25/1998               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           0.00
  2      12/23/1998               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           0.00
  3      06/21/1999               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           0.00
  4      11/19/1999               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           0.00
  5      06/28/2000               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           1.71
  6      08/15/2000               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           1.71
  7      03/22/2001              Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                          1.71
  8      10/09/2001              Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                          2.14
  9      05/02/2002              Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                          3.01
 10      06/26/2002               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           3.01
 11      12/05/2002               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           3.70
 12      06/04/2003               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           3.70
 13      12/05/2003               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           4.14
 14      06/04/2004               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           4.36
 15      06/23/2004               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           5.67
 16      12/02/2004               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           5.67
 17      04/07/2005               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           5.67
 18      06/13/2005               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           5.67
 19      05/12/2006               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           5.67
 20      12/21/2006               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                           9.93
 21      05/05/2007           Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                         11.96
 22      12/10/2007               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         16.40
 23      06/05/2008               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         20.07
 24      10/29/2008               Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         23.36
Note: The full loan amount of US$25 million was disbursed by the end of the grace period following
Project closure, i.e., February 2009.

H. Restructuring (if any)


                        Board      ISR Ratings at    Amount
Restructuring Approved             Restructuring Disbursed at        Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)             PDO                       Restructuring            Key Changes Made
                       Change        DO      IP      in USD
                                                     millions
12/12/2002         To improve the     S       S           3.70     The original project approved by the
                   overall                                         Board called for the on-lending of
                   efficiency of                                   loan proceeds from the federal
                   the Borrower's                                  Government to sub-nationals.
                   water sector
                   by, in                                          After Loan 4292-BR became
                   particular,                                     effective, Brazil passed the Fiscal



                                                  iv

                 Board       ISR Ratings at  Amount
Restructuring Approved       Restructuring Disbursed at    Reason for Restructuring &
  Date(s)         PDO                      Restructuring         Key Changes Made
                Change        DO     IP      in USD
                                             millions
             strengthening                              Responsibility Law in 2000, which
             sector                                     severely restricted lending by federal
             regulations and                            authorities to lower tiers of
             increasing                                 government.
             private sector
             participation in                           As a result, a restructuring of the
             the investment                             Project was agreed and approved by
             and                                        the Board in December 2002. The
             management of                              restructuring included:
             the sector
                                                        (i) Amendment and reduction of
                                                              Loan 4292 to US$25 million for
                                                              a technical assistance project to
                                                              be implemented by the Federal
                                                              Government;
                                                        (ii) Approval of two additional
                                                              Loans (one for CAIXA and one
                                                              for BNDES for US$75 million
                                                              and US$30 million respectively)
                                                              to implement the investment
                                                              components;
                                                        (iii) Extending the closing date for all
                                                              Loans to October 2007.

                                                        This ICR refers to Loan 4292, with
                                                        the reduced amount of US$ 25
                                                        million.




                                           v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      In 1997, at the time of appraisal, the water supply and sanitation sector (WSS) in Brazil
was characterized by a lack of regulation and an unclear allocation of regulatory functions and
responsibilities among the federal, state and municipal governments, unequal coverage rates,
poor sector performance, low service and high water pollution rates. The legal ambiguity has
been a permanent cause of political uncertainty and immobility in the sectors development in
Brazil. By 1998, the lack of a well defined regulatory and institutional framework meant that
political interference dominated crucial issues such as management, tariff setting and capital
expenditure. More detail on these issues and how the original project design hoped to address
them can be found in Annex 3.

2.      The strategy of the Federal Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil (GoB) at the
time of Appraisal, laid out in its National Water Supply and Sanitation Policy, sought to
expand the provision of WSS services to Brazils entire population and to improve service
delivery efficiency by encouraging a more competitive and better regulated environment. The
separation of competencies between the concession-granting authority and the service providers,
as well as the promotion of different decentralized alternatives for service provision, were key
elements of this strategy. The Banks 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to Brazil
supported the implementation of the GoBs WSS Strategy. In turn, the Water Sector
Modernization Project II (PMSS II), in its original design, aimed to support two objectives of the
CAS: (i) the reform of Brazilswater WSS sector; and (ii) the reduction of poverty and inequity
by improving the health conditions and quality of life of poor urban populations and regions (N,
NE and CW).

3.      The 1997 Asian crisis and the 1998 Russian crisis ultimately affected the Latin-American
region at the end of the decade. Brazil was particularly hard hit and the government was forced
to adopt a floating exchange rate regime and tighten fiscal policies considerably. These efforts
were supported by an international financial package led by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), which included financing from the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB). As result of the fiscal crisis and after the PMSS II Project (Loan 4292-BR) became
effective in September 1999, Brazil passed the Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal1 (LRF, Fiscal
Responsibility Law) which severely restricted lending by federal authorities to lower tiers of
government. Though the Ministry of Finance (MoF) agreed that the Banks Loan Agreement
itself predated the LRF, it argued that the on-lending arrangements to state and municipal water
companies contemplated by the project would come into effect after passage of the LRF and
could therefore not be grandfathered.

4.      After protracted discussions between the Bank and the Brazilian authorities and within
the GoB, the MoF proposed restructuring the project (in particular the on-lending arrangements)
to prevent precedents that could undermine the GoBs commitment to fiscal austerity. The



1LRF, Lei Complementar No. 101 of May 4, 2000

                                                 1

solution finally agreed with the MoF and the sector authorities and approved by the Board
entailed:

i)    Reducing Loan 4292 to US$25 million (through the cancellation of US$125 million) and
      amending the Loan Agreement to eliminate project components that involved on-lending to
      sub-nationals. The Loan would thus be used by the Borrower, the GoB, as a technical
      assistance (TA) project which would not negatively impinge on the LRF;

ii) Preparing two new Bank loans to the public sector banks Caixa Econômica Federal
      (CAIXA)2 for US$75 million to on-lend to public utilities and to Banco Nacional de
      Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social (BNDES3) for US$30 million to on-lend to private
      operators;

iii) Establish 31, 2007 as the new closing date for all Loans.

5.       The PMSS II built on the first Bank-financed Water Sector Modernization project that
had supported a first phase of the GoBsNational Sector Modernization Program (Programa de
Modernização do Setor de Saneamento - PMSS). The program was created by GoB in 1993 and
has since become a permanent vehicle of support to the federal entity in charge of WSS,
currently the National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation (SNSA) in the Ministry of
Cities. The program and the two Bank-financed projects designed to support it are widely known
in Brazil as PMSS, so this document uses this acronym to refer to it.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.       The following are the original PDO and key performance indicators as contained in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and approved by the Board on February 1998. See Section 3
and Annex 2 for a more detailed discussion on outcomes/outputs and indicators.

    Project Development Objective                  Key Indicator
    Strengthen regulation, increase private        Number of states and municipalities with new legal and
    sector participation in investment and         regulatory frameworks approved by the legislature.
    management, and improve the overall
    efficiency of Brazil's water supply and        Number of people in the N, NE & CW receiving WSS
    sewerage sector                                services from private sector operators (under concessions,
                                                   affermage, management or BOT/BOOT contracts).

    Within the N, NE and CW regions increase Additional number of households in project areas receiving
    the coverage levels of water supply and        water supply and sewerage services.
    sewage collection and treatment services of
    participating utilities




2The new CAIXA Loan for US$75 million was approved in the same Board session as the restructuring
3The negotiations for the new BNDES loan experienced further difficulties (including disagreement over the
application of Bank safeguard policies to the operation), and the new BNDES authorities did not authorize the
presentation of the loan to the Bank Board

                                                          2

    Project Development Objective                 Key Indicator
    Within the N, NE and CW regions,              Additional volume of sewage collected and treated in project
    improve the quality of water bodies located areas.
    in states and municipalities served by
    participating utilities

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

    Project Development Objective4             Key Indicator
    To improve the overall efficiency of the   Number of states and municipalities with new legal and
    Borrower's water sector by, in particular, regulatory frameworks approved by the legislative.
    strengthening sector regulations and
    increasing private sector participation in Number of people in the N, NE & CW receiving WSS services
    the investment and management of the       from private sector operators (under concessions, affermage,
    sector                                     management or BOT/BOOT contracts).


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

7.       Direct project beneficiaries after the restructuring of the project were the federal, state
and municipal governments and utilities (state and municipal, private and public) benefiting from
TA for regulatory and institutional development and reform of the WSS services throughout
Brazil.

1.5 Original Components

8.       The original design anticipated four components: (i) Management & Promotion (cost
estimated at around US$7 million) to finance the management costs of the project at the federal
level and the promotion and dissemination of project experiences; (ii) Water Sector Institutional
and Regulatory Reform (cost estimated at around US$22 million) to fund TA related to
establishing sector regulatory frameworks and undertaking institutional transformation; (iii)
Operational Development (cost estimated at US$63.5 million) for the development and
implementation of unaccounted-for-water control subprojects and other small but profitable
operational, financial and administrative actions, in water utilities within the project area with
minimal levels of operational and financial efficiency and committed to reform; and (iv)
Investment (estimated cost of US$165.7 million) to finance the expansion, upgrading and
revamping of water supply and sewerage systems of utilities, within the N, NE and CW regions
of Brazil.

1.6 Revised Components

9.       At the time of project restructuring components 3 and 4 were removed from the original
project scope (becoming the proposed stand-alone CAIXA and BNDES projects) and PMSS IIs
focus shifted to supporting the sector reform efforts, with two TA components: (i) Management
& Promotion (estimated at US$ 3 million); and (ii) Institutional and Regulatory Reform


4As reflected in Loan Agreement Amendment Letter signed on August 2003. Key indicators for reformulated PDO
are understood to have remained from the original Board approved PAD

                                                        3

(estimated at US$ 22 million), funding the TA supporting institutional development and
regulatory activities. The restructured project was thus designed to work at the federal,
state/municipal and utility level to fund a wide range of activities: formulation and
implementation of national policies for the WSS, elaboration of the legal and regulatory
frameworks for the provision of WSS (including the preparation and implementation of draft
laws, regulations, guidelines, general procedures, parameters, and standards), undertaking
relevant sector studies and analytical work, supporting private sector participation processes as
well as the development and implementation of sector information systems, knowledge sharing
and dissemination activities, supporting strategic planning and utility restructuring, capacity
building and training.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

10.      The restructuring of the Project basically meant the shifting of CAIXA and BNDES from
implementing agencies, under the original loan, to Borrowers, backed by a Guarantee Agreement
from the GoB, to implement the investment components contemplated under the original project
design. After a long process of negotiation with both entities concerning the preparation of the
new loans,5 BNDES did not authorize its presentation to the Bank Board. The CAIXA loan was
approved with the restructuring, but did not become effective within the eighteen month
timeframe given at approval, following which the Bank decided to remove it from the portfolio.6
Considering the non materialization of the CAIXA and BNDES loans, the restructuring meant a
significant change from the Projectsoriginal design, scope and scale. The PMSS II project was
now a relatively modest in size (compared to the large sector needs) TA project no longer
embedded in a large-scale investment operation.

11.      At the time of appraisal it was envisaged that project management, promotion and
coordination would be executed by the Project Management Unit/Unidade de Gestão do
Programa (PMU/UGP) of the predecessor PMSS I, reporting to the Ministry of Planning and
Budget through the Secretariat for Urban Policy (SEPURB) and the Institute for Applied
Economic Research (IPEA). Following the standard practice in the country at the time for
projects subject to external financing, UNDP was hired as a fiduciary agent7, a role that they had
successfully undertaken in a number of projects, including PMSS I. To avoid creating a large
structure, the PMU was to rely on the outsourcing of specific tasks to qualified consultants
(individuals and consulting firms, as needed) to assist in the definition, implementation and
supervision of subprojects as well as to carry out studies, etc. At the time of approval, SEPURB
was the entity responsible for providing the national policy framework for WSS sector
development. This responsibility was later assigned to the Secretariat for Urban Development of
the PresidentsOffice (SEDU/PR) and then with the inauguration of the Lula Administration in
2003, it was transferred to the SNSA in the newly created MoC. Each change in the federal



5Which coincided with a change of Federal Administration and the consequent changes to the heads of these two
public banks
6The CAIXA authorities requested to sign the loan on the last day of the 18 month period, at which point the RVP
decided the Bank should no longer proceed with the signing.
7UNDPs role diminished as the Government strategy gradually shifted towards a decentralized approach that
fostered strengthened public service capabilities. Increasingly, projects were managed either by in-house staff (civil
servants) or outsourced to the private sector

                                                           4

entity in charge of sector and project oversight brought about changes in the strategy for project
implementation, causing delays and affecting the rhythm of implementation. The PMU itself
remained relatively stable (the unit had only 2 coordinators in the ten-year project
implementation period.

12.      The Loan Amendment dated August 1, 2003 changed the closing date of the project to
October 31, 2007. In August 2007, it was extended by an additional twelve months at the
request of the GoB, to enable finalization of ongoing activities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

13.      Incorporation of Lessons Learned: Project preparation for PMSS II built on lessons
learned from the first Bank-financed PMSS and other country and global experiences8. The
project made specific strategic choices at the time of design, such as limiting the scope of
investments to the N, NE & CW regions in order to target federal investment efforts to the poorer
and less developed areas of the country. This specific design would avoid dispersion of the loan
(US$150 million for nineteen states when compared to the previous much larger loan of US$250
million), and plenty of preparatory work had been done before approval. As a result, the project
was front-loaded with a significant pipeline of subprojects. Procurement planning was a priority
during project preparation. Bidding documents were ready for a large part of the investments,
including all sub-projects planned to start in the first year of implementation.

14.      Risks and Mitigations: The risks presented in the PAD and their corresponding
mitigation measures were reasonably well defined and proved to be relevant. Borrower
commitment to sector reform was assessed by its efforts to separate sector operation and
regulation and to bring innovative approaches to the institutional reform of the sector9. In
addition, there was strong demand from sub-national entities for a follow-up project, reducing
the risk of lack of ownership at the local level. A turn of events and risks that could not be
foreseen at design were: (i) the impending fiscal crisis that eventually led to the passing of the
LRF with its paralyzing effect on the operation given the on-lending arrangements; (ii) the
subsequent shift of focus of the GoB and Bank assistance to fiscal and financial reforms ­
supported by several adjustment loans from the Bank ­ and TA away from the investment
lending that was proposed under the CAIXA and BNDES loans10; (iii) the difficulties in first
reaching an agreement regarding the restructuring of the original Loan (including the
negotiations of the loans with CAIXA and BNDES) and then approving and signing the


8 These lessons learned were particularly relevant in the design of the original project with its large investment
components
9Government had financed every request from local governments to study, define and implement independent water
regulatory agencies in their political jurisdictions, and had supported the sub-national governments seeking to
define institutional models for improved performance (e.g., to state governments participating in reform-
privatization Projects).




                                                            5

amendment; (iv) the changes in public sector institutions, sector counterparts, policies and
strategies brought about by the taking of office of the Lula Administration in 2003; and (v) the
impact of all these factors on project implementation arrangements, focus and schedule, and,
more importantly, the pace at which sector reform could happen.

2.2 Implementation

15.      Project implementation followed an uneven course. First, after approval, loan signature
and project effectiveness were delayed for over 15 months11. Then, the delay in making a final
decision regarding the viability of the original institutional and on-lending arrangements (2000-
2002), and the negotiation of the solution, including the two new loans with CAIXA and
BNDES12, meant that project implementation was effectively on stand-by for almost five years,
as the project strove to solve the different emerging obstacles. At the time of project
restructuring only US$3.7 million of the Bank loan had been disbursed. Finally, the
MoF/Treasury put forward the solution for the restructuring agreed with the Bank, whose
approval coincided with the change of government in 2002/2003.

16.      The beginning of the new Lula administration in January 2003 marked a significant shift
in GoB policies and strategies in the WSS sector as well as in the overall public administration
apparatus and institutional framework. The natural adjustment lags of a transition period were
further impeded by differing views over the focus to be given to private sector participation in
the WSS sector. The increased PSP as a main goal of the project became increasingly dissonant
with the changing policy environment in GoB and played a role in contributing to the perception
of the Bank as part of a "Washington consensus" promoting a privatization agenda, and
undermining the new GoBs broad institutional support for the project.13

17.      In the period that followed the restructuring, disbursements were further impeded by
other factors that affected other Bank projects in Brazil in the portfolio: (i) the
"contingenciamento"14 of all federal programs included in Brazil's general budget; (ii) internal
delays in UNDP to process procurement requests due to difficulties arising with the introduction
of SAP (System Application and Production) and the extinction of the project implementing unit




11 Political uncertainty on the direction that the Brazilian WSS sector could take after the 1998 presidential election
and former Japanese OECF (now JBIC) formal commitment to co-financing the Project account for this delayed
effectiveness. As originally designed in 1998, OECF was specifically identified as the source of US$105 million of
the projects overall US$150 million in counterpart financing and the loan should become effective by December
1998 or otherwise the Bank loan would be suspended (unless adequate funds from other sources are made available
for the project by the Borrower). However, meanwhile, as reported in ISRs of this initial period, progress was being
made in the preparation of subprojects to be financed under the loan. At the time of the restructuring, the MOP to the
Board talks about US14 million of works already tendered and awarded in the state of Ceara and US$ 20 million
earmarked in the state of Bahia.
12The key reason for this delay was a lack of common understanding and agreement within key GoB entities as to
how the new LRF would be applied to the case of the PMSS II.
13 This difference of approach was so pronounced that the GoBs WSS strategy of the period included the proposed
elimination of the participation of IFIs in the financing of the sector
14Perennial budget freezing

                                                            6

in the Brazilian Agency for Cooperation within the Foreign Relations Ministry15 (the entity that
previously assisted UNDP in processing requests from all UNDP-executed projects); and (iii)
amendment of the Technical Cooperation Agreement between GoB and UNDP to support the
project as financial management agent, including an increase in the fees charged by the entity
from 3 percent to 5 percent. The project Audit Report of March 2005 from the Secretaria
Federal de Controle (SFC ­ Federal Control Secretariat) recognized this situation, indicating that
delays at this level were seriously affecting project implementation. By the time of the Mid Term
Review (MTR) in May 2005, project disbursements stood at US$5.7 million.

18.      Given the slow disbursements and poor project implementation track-record, the Bank
proposed a cancellation of the remaining undisbursed balance (US$19.3 million) at MTR. GoB
firmly refused any suggestion by the Bank of canceling loan proceeds and the SNSA confirmed
that the project was a priority given its potential to impact on sector policy dialogue and support
to the reform at the federal, state and local levels. As a demonstration of this commitment, the
MoF authorized a MoC to allocate additional counterpart funds to the project. By MTR, the
number of planned activities had increased and target values for the PDO indicators had been
reached, even though these results were not adequately reflected in Bank disbursement figures.
(as Bank funds are not additional to the budget of the sectoral ministries, counterpart funds are
usually spent before Bank loans are drawn-down).

19.      The Banks gamble in allowing the project to continue without any partial cancelation
paid off: from the MTR in 2005 to closure in October 2008, the project enjoyed institutional
stability and strong support from the GoB, sector stakeholders and civil society, as well as from
the direct project beneficiaries and participants. Moreover, it managed to achieve a steady and
agile implementation rhythm. By project closing, the full amount of the loan had been
committed. After the end of the grace period, the project had disbursed the full amount of the
loan and considerably exceeded the agreed financial counterpart financing (see Annex 2 for
detail). The ratings in the implementation status reports were consistent overall with the
progress made16 towards achieving the project objectives.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

20.      M&E Design: The projects M&E framework was designed before the Bank initiated a
more robust approach to results monitoring. However, the original PAD M&E framework was
fairly consistent in terms of allowing a monitoring of progress towards achieving the PDOs and



15In Portuguese, Unidade de Administração de Projetos de Agencia Brasileira de Cooperação do Ministério das
Relações Exteriores

16During the first two years, the Implementation Status and Result (ISR) rating was satisfactory since, despite the
slow disbursements, the project was on track towards achieving its development objectives (the Memorandum of
the President (MOP) to the Board on the restructuring mentions a pipeline of investments in states valued at US$20
million). In the period 2000-2002, while the Project was awaiting a solution to the on-lending impasse through a
suitable restructuring agreement, the ratings dropped to unsatisfactory. From the restructuring, the outcome
achievement has been rated satisfactory except in one ISR which rated it as highly satisfactory, in recognition of the
project achievements and outstanding performance in the specific period (first semester of 2007).


                                                          7

outcomes as defined. The main issues with the project M&E framework are the following:

 The reformulated PDO was the overall improvement of sector efficiency through increased
    PSP and regulation. Although this hierarchy of objectives is reasonable and the linkages
    between efficiency, PSP and strengthened regulation are well documented, the exact
    relationship between them (and thus of the indicators and PDO as reformulated) from the
    projects M&E framework can only be inferred.
 The reformulated PDO and M&E framework present a methodological issue which is
    common to TA Loans. It is very difficult that increased efficiency at an overall sector level
    can be met by a TA Loan on its own (though indeed most TA projects supporting reforms
    aim to contribute to this high-level goal). With hindsight, the project could have used the
    restructuring (and to an extent the MTR, though this would have required a second formal
    restructuring) as an opportunity to re-write the PDO and indicators to bring them more in line
    with what a TA Loan could reasonably achieve. The MTR took the opportunity to define a
    new set of indicators to monitor achievement of intermediate outcomes/outputs, reflecting the
    renewed project focus. While this provided a framework to assess progress in project outputs,
    the difficulty of establishing causal links between them and the PDO of increased overall
    sector efficiency, and measuring the exact project contribution to this goal, remained.
 With hindsight, the PDO was formulated at a time when PSP-oriented reform was considered
    the main tool for improving utility performance and sector reform. At that time, many
    projects in the WSS sector also included PSP as a development objective. However, new
    problems emerged with this global approach, such as how to address services for the poor,
    regulatory difficulties within a PSP context and how to work towards efficiency gains in
    public utilities. Today, PSP is widely considered by sector practitioners and most Bank
    clients as one tool within a range of options for improved service delivery and performance.
    Although the macroeconomic crisis at the end of the 1990s played a crucial role in shaping
    the projectsultimate outcome, the 2002/2003 change in GoB and its policies also exposed a
    lack of a broad consensus within key sector stakeholders in Brazil regarding the emphasis to
    be placed on this specific approach. Viewed today, the PDO focus is at odds with the more
    neutral approach in sector thinking and in the broader Bank strategy reflected in more recent
    CASs and in the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Brazil.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

21.     The project was initially rated as a category A, largely due to its investment component.
Therefore, detailed social and environmental work was done during project preparation (see
Annex 2 for details). After the restructuring, the project was more aligned with a category B
rating as a technical assistance loan, and many of these procedures were no longer relevant. In
terms of fiduciary compliance, the project closed in October 2008 with satisfactory ratings for
procurement and Financial Management (FM). During the last and final supervision mission, the
overall FM rating was upgraded to satisfactory, reflecting the good work and corrective actions
taken by the project during the last year of implementation.




                                                  8

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

22.     Due to the high relevance and priority that the GoB assigned to this project, the PMU has
continued to be operational after the formal closing of the Bank loan to support it in order to
fully execute all commitments made to the PMSS contractors and beneficiaries. By the end of the
loans grace period (February 2009), the GoBscounterpart contribution to the project was in the
order of US$ 7.3 million (almost doubling the original commitment).

23.     The PMSS program, for which the Bank provided financing support, enjoys a good
reputation and strong support in Brazil from a broad range of sector stakeholders. The federal
authorities at SNSA and all other major sector stakeholders are satisfied with the way the PMSS
program has guided GoB work in the sector during the last sixteen years and the results it has
achieved. The GoB has now requested additional Bank support for a new and wider TA
operation, comprising all water related sectors and involving different institutions dealing with
water at the national level. Through this new operation, the GoB and the major sector
stakeholders hope to preserve PMSS' inheritance while designing a more agile implementation
arrangement.

24.     The main objective of the new federal project with the Bank, called Interáguas, is to
strengthen intersectoral planning and coordination in the water sector and to contribute to: (i)
increasing efficiency of water use and water services provision; (ii) expanding sustainable water
supply for multiple uses; and (iii) improving public expenditure in the water sector through better
intersectoral coordination. The National Water Agency and three ministries will be directly
involved as executing agencies: the Ministry of Environment (Water Resources Management),
the MoC (Water Supply and Sanitation), and the Ministry of National Integration (Irrigation and
Water Infrastructure). The project includes sector specific activities on WRM, WSS, and
irrigation and infrastructure planning. In addition, it includes inter-sectoral activities such as
inland river transportation and hydropower development planning that may involve other
ministries, particularly the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Transport. This operation
builds on the experience of PMSS and PROSANEAR in the WSS sector, PROAGUA in the
WRM sector as well as several other TA Loans in the other mentioned sectors.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

25.     The project has spanned several CASs since its approval in 1998 and its objectives have
remained relevant to Bank and country priorities through the several subsequent CAS/CPS
exercises, as described in detail in Annex 3.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
26.     The PDO and indicators and their baseline, revised target and outcome values are
provided below. By the closing date, the project had largely exceeded its PDO indicators target
values (including the 2 original indicators plus one additional indicator agreed at MTR). PMSS II
engaged very early on in TA to some states and municipalities committed to reform. By the end
of the project, 15 states and 35 municipalities had completed their legal and regulatory
framework and received approval from the legislature, and 3.8 million people were served under

                                                 9

private sector arrangements. In addition, 166 municipalities had formally agreed the regulation
and provision of WSS with regional regulatory agencies. In many instances, support from PMSS
to beneficiary entities included work on both operational and institutional issues (including loss
reduction programs, technical and overall WSS system capacity diagnosis, tariff studies and
other initiatives aimed at operational and financial improvement). Further detail on the evolution
of these indicators and participating sub-nationals can be found in Annex 2.

                                                            Value                               Target
                                                                                           Final
                Indicator                                                    Closing                 Original
                                        Baseline     May-05                               Target
                                                     (MTR)      Jan-07        Date                     PAD
                                                                              Value        (after
                                                                                          MTR)        Target
    PDO: To improve the overall efficiency of the water sector by, in particular, strengthening sector
    regulations and increasing private sector participation
    Indicators:
    1. Number of states with sector legal and regulatory framework approved by the legislative
             States                         0           10        10            15          12           10
             Municipalities                 0            4        35            35           6           4
    2. Number of people in the North, Northeast and Central-West regions receiving water supply and
    sanitation services from private operators:
                                            0         2,600      3,350        3,800        3,000       2,000
    3. Number of municipalities with a formal agreement for the regulation and provision of water supply and
    sanitation services with regional regulatory agencies:
                                            0            1         2           166           8        Agreed
                                                                                                      at MTR

27.     Other Project Outputs (Indicators 4-9): Following the MTR, the project focused with
renewed emphasis in supporting the generation of sector data and statistics, the elaboration of
analytical work and capacity building activities. An important project outcome was the support
given at the federal level, helping SNSA to formulate and elaborate its policies and programs and
better perform its functions of sector oversight, knowledge dissemination and policy making.
PMSS acted as a facilitator compiling and disseminating sector knowledge through its activities.
The project has undertaken key strategic activities that helped shape the sectors overall policy
direction and provided high-quality analytical work on key issues, done with substantial
participation by top Brazilian researchers. Some of the most important activities undertaken
under the project are listed below (please see Annex 2 for additional detail on each of these
programs/activities17 and for a full table of indicators agreed at MTR, their actual value and
expected target:

 Think-tank support of the formulation of WSS sector policies and key legislation:
    Consortia Law No. 11.107/2005 and the new WSS Framework Law No. 11.445/2007,
    which was approved unanimously in Congress in 2007 after a long discussion of different
    drafts over a number of preceding years. This law aims to increase investments for providing
    universal access to WSS services, while taking into account local specificities and using
    appropriate technologies that are in line with users' ability to pay, as well as providing a legal
    basis for the federal government in WSS, a role that had remained undefined during the


17Additional information on these programs can be found in Project files and in the PMSS website:
www.cidades.pmss.gov.br

                                                         10

    previous twenty years. PMSS funded experts working on the preparation of different versions
    of the WSS Law and made comments, revisions and inputs to the final one that was
    presented by SNSA to Congress. The Consortia Law clarified the legal framework for
    regionalization processes and grouping of municipalities for the provision of the services.
    The preparation of this law was fully financed by PMSS. The project supported the
    structuring of consortia through its advisory work to several states and municipalities18.
 A consolidated, expanded and improved National WSS Information System19 (SNIS). After
    13 years, SNIS is an important instrument in the evaluation of sector performance, as well as
    informing the formulation and execution of national policies and programs (in particular
    those related to regulatory and social aspects). In 2005/2006 a new solid waste database was
    created. SNIS enjoys wide credibility within Brazil, is considered a best practice model in
    WSS and solid waste benchmarking in the developing world and has been emulated in
    several other countries. At project approval, the number of municipalities regularly reporting
    to SNIS was 270; by project closure, this number had increased to 2,500. SNIS is now
    institutionalized in the MoC.
 Demand-driven TA cooperation with sub-national entities, working with the state and
    municipal governments, regulatory entities, service providers and managers. At the state,
    municipal and utility levels, TA focused on three areas: i) support to institutional reform,
    including proposals for different WSS institutional service provision models; ii) support to
    the restructuring and revitalization of public service providers; and iii) support in planning
    and executing regulatory activities. The project-financed activities contributed to the
    enhancement of efficiency and performance of beneficiary agencies. Further details on each
    of the state TA programs can be found in Annex 2.
 Establishment of the National Training Network in WSS (RECESA), including a
    financing facility for research and studies and the definition and set-up of a country-wide
    network for training and technical exchange for utility professionals.
 Com+Água Program: Demonstration project for the integrated management of water
    losses and energy efficiency, featuring an innovative methodology promoting best practices
    in management, social participation and education combined with the operational and
    technical solutions.
 The development and roll-out of the Integrated Management Information System for WSS
    services (GSAN), which is a free, ,,open source software for water utilities with integrated
    modules for customer registration, metering, billing, collection, customer service and
    management reporting, with a structure that is designed to be easily integrated to other
    management systems within the utility.
 Research, studies and other analytical work: The carrying out of a number of studies to
    investigate technical, economic-financial, and political-institutional aspects of service



18The first Public WSS consortium in Brazil ­ CORESA SUL do PI ­ with the participation of the State of Piaui
and 31 municipalities from the South of the State; the Intermunicipal Consortium Vale do Itapocu in Santa Catarina,
with the participation of seven municipalities; the municipal-state consortium for Alto Solimoes in Amazonas, with
the participation of nine municipalities
19SNIS ­ www.snis.gov.br

                                                          11

    provision in Brazil, including, interalia: (i) a study on Dimensioning of sector investment
    needs20 for the universal provision of WSS services; and (ii) an Evaluation of private sector
    participation in the provision of WSS services in Brazil21. The latter study evaluates the
    impact of PSP in the provision of WSS services, from a company and consumer perspective,
    and how the different forms of PSP and institutional arrangements in place impact the overall
    experience and results. A steering/review committee was set up to agree on the scope and
    accompany the study, reviewing and commenting the studys results, incorporating
    representatives from different stakeholder groups as well as sector specialists, politicians and
    practitioners, with representation from sectors traditionally opposed and in favor of PSP.
    This approach had the result of bringing confronted parties together at the same table.22 A
    complete list of studies undertaken by PMSS can be found in Annex 2.
 PMSS played also a key role in: (i) Knowledge sharing and dissemination activities:
    through the publishing and dissemination of analytical work and best practices through a
    wide collection of WSS related publications; (ii) acting as a Sector Focal Point undertaking
    the ongoing organization and delivery of relevant sector national and international seminars,
    workshops and other events; and (iii) engaging in National and International Technical
    Cooperation fostering the promotion and development of studies, guidelines, pilot projects,
    events and training activities in key sector issues, including South-South and South-North
    learning exchanges.

28.     Sector Efficiency Outcome: Indicators (10-20): It is difficult to measure the exact
contribution of project activities to the overall sector efficiency improvements (although
efficiency improvements are evident in specific cases of TA to utilities). The intangible
contribution of PMSS II to improved overall sector efficiency through its supported programs,
studies and activities can however be inferred as significant. Prior to PMSS II, the lack of
reporting from sub-national entities through a relevant information system did not allow proper
monitoring of sector efficiency and performance to begin with. In addition, the impact of the
strengthening of the SNSA to promote increased regulation and competition and a new
legislation on sector efficiency will take some time to yield positive outcomes, but it is expected
that this impact will be significant. Overall, the WSS sector in Brazil has followed a positive
evolution in the efficiency indicators agreed upon at the MTR. The project helped the sector
reach six of its eleven sector efficiency target values and came very close to achieving the other
five. The agreed overalls sector efficiency indicators, including their actual and target values can
be found in Annex 2.

3.3     Efficiency

29.     An ex-ante cost-benefit analysis for the TA component of the original project design (that
after the restructuring became the full scope of the PMSS II project) was not undertaken during



20Dimensionamento das Necessidades de Investimentos para a Univeralizacao dos servicos de Abastecimiento de
Agua e de Coleta e Trtamento de Esgotos Sanitarios do Brasil
21Avaliacao do Impacto da Participacao do Setor Privado na Provisao dos servicos de Abastecimniento de Agua e
de Esgotamento Sanitario do Brasil
22As an anecdote, the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the study took over one year to reach consensus on as they
were reviewed by all of the different stakeholders with each proposing a different approach.

                                                         12

preparation, given that as TA, many of its benefits were judged intangibles. The project benefits
would be measured by the number of municipalities and states that formulated new regulatory
frameworks and adopted institutional models for service provision involving the private sector.
Although the project was also expected to work at the federal level, the intention was to
contribute to sector reform through these actions. The principal factor affecting project
efficiency was the long delays in initiating and sustaining a steady rhythm of implementation and
disbursement. The efficacy of the operation in terms of sector reform can be judged by the
recent passing of the WSS framework law. Though similar framework legislative efforts in other
countries in the region have also taken long periods of time (for example, Mexico and Chile), the
long periods of inactivity negatively affected the efficiency of the operation in terms of the
missed opportunity to advance progress earlier

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

ICR Rating: Overall Achievement of Project Development Objective is Satisfactory

30.     According to the harmonized evaluation criteria for ICR evaluations and the ICR
guidelines issued in August 2006, the overall outcome rating for formally restructured projects
should be assessed against both the original and the amended PDO, as the average of separate
outcome ratings weighted in proportion to the share of the loan disbursements made in the
periods before and after restructuring.

31.     The original project was highly consistent with the previous two CASs and GoB
priorities, which emphasize providing financing support to infrastructure for development and
the need to reform key aspects of the WSS sector. However, given the very slow progress and
disbursements, in particular during the negotiations of the on-lending impasse, the outcome
achievement under the original operation before the restructuring is rated unsatisfactory.

32.     After the restructuring, the project continued to be aligned with the GoB priorities and the
recent Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), especially with the passing of the new federal WSS
law. Both the GoB and sub-national entities are interested in continuing to prioritize and
implement the type of activities pioneered and championed by PMSS, and the project enjoys
wide acknowledgment and support throughout Brazil, across the sectors political/ideological
differences. Though it took some time for the implementation to take-off after the restructuring,
the project accomplished its stated PDO as measured by the attainment of its original and revised
performance indicators. It met 13 out of the 18 new targets for the indicators agreed at MTR in
2005 (and came very close for the other five). It also had a remarkable financial performance in
the last three years, achieving full disbursement during this period and mobilizing counterpart
funds of almost twice the amount agreed at Loan signature. A TA loan achieving similar results
within three years of implementation might be rated highly satisfactory. However, given: (i) the
significant delay in achieving an effective project launch following the restructuring; and (ii) the
missed opportunities of reformulating the PDO/M&E framework to reflect the difficulties in
measuring the projectscontribution to the stated PDO of improved overall sector efficiency and
the reduced relevance of the PSP objective, the outcome achievement for the restructured
operation is rated as satisfactory.




                                                  13

33.     As shown in the following table, according to the ICR guidelines for the rating of
restructured projects, the resulting overall rating after applying the weighing for disbursements is
Satisfactory23.

                                       Against Original      Against Revised  Overall Disbursements and
                                           PDOs                  PDOs                  Rating
1. Rating                               Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory
2. Rating value                               2                     5
3. Weight : % disbursements                 15%                   85%                   100%
    before and after amendment
4. Weighted value (rows 2x3)                 0.3                  4.25                   4.55
5. Final rating (rounded)                                                            Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

34.     A portion of the TA work carried out under the project focused on poverty and social
aspects related to the provision of WSS. The evaluation of the MDG related to WSS and the
shortcomings of access to the service in Brazil, brought to the forefront the challenges Brazil
faces in reaching the goal of universal access. The project also documented and widely
disseminated the Brazilian condominial experience, a low-cost solution for the provision of WSS
services that involves intensive community participation and that maximizes the efficiency of
investments in irregularly occupied slum areas, making the connection to sewerage networks
affordable to low-income households. The resulting publication is a consolidation of 30 years of
experience in Brazil as an explanatory guide for sector practitioners to successfully implement
this approach.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

35.     The project (and, more broadly, the PMSS program since 1993) has contributed to
bringing about institutional change through its contribution to the national debate on WSS
policies and the formulation of new legislation. The project has contributed to the change and
institutional strengthening of the sector through the institutionalization of training and capacity
building programs (not only promoting these in a national format, but also pioneering South-
North and South-South knowledge management and learning exchanges), the consolidation of a
national sector information system informing policy making, and the TA support that the project
provided to states and municipalities across Brazil. The projects technical support to sub-
nationals has contributed to a better understanding of the situation of service provision in the
participating states and municipalities, and contributed to institutional strengthening, through the
implementation of measures aimed at increasing efficiency, by providing options for viable
institutional frameworks, and appropriate capacity building programs.




23Resulting overall rating should be rounded up to the next number


                                                        14

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

36.      The GoB considers PMSS as its flagship program in the sector, due to its impact on
policy dialogue, overall sector development and support to the preparation and implementation
of other WSS projects and activities. As such, PMSS had a leading role as a ,,think-tankfor the
discussion of key sector issues and policies in Brazil. The projects rigorous and detailed
approach to analytical work, research and studies, and the patient dissemination and discussion
of its proposals is specifically noteworthy.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

37.      In 2007, the PMU carried out a thorough study24 (PMSS, Transition to a Permanent
Structure in the MoC)25 following the Delphi methodology to review different scenarios for the
institutional restructuring and organization of the PMSS program in order to provide continuity
after project closing. This study looked at the projectshistory, assessed program outcomes and
advanced the analysis of future scenarios. The Delphi study allowed the participation of 72
contributors representing a wide array of public and private stakeholders in the WSS sector and
project beneficiaries (universities, international organizations, ministries and federal entities,
legislative bodies, national councils, SNSA, beneficiary states and municipalities, program
partners and individual collaborators). The detailed survey undertaken showed almost
unanimous support within federal and local sector authorities and stakeholders on the need to
continue the Program with our without Bank support through a third phase. For more than 80
percent of survey participants, the two main achievements of the PMSS program are: (i) its
contribution to the development and approval of the sector legal and regulatory framework; and
(ii) the consolidation of the national WSS information system, SNIS. Some additional results of
the survey are highlighted below.

38.      One hundred percent of surveyed participants recognized that the program contributed to
sector development (67 percent decisively, 33 percent partially). According to surveyed
participants, program actions that most contributed to the sectors evolution include: (i)
consolidation and evolution of the SNIS (96 percent); (ii) development and approval of a sector
legal framework at the national level (86 percent); (iii) fostering an environment for discussion
of the relevance of the sectors institutional reform and creating adequate conditions for changes
in the sector (83 percent); and (iv) measures focused on the management of water losses and
energy efficiency in the sector (80 percent).

39.      While this is a core ICR, it was deemed important to capture additional details on project
results and lessons learned from the perspective of both project participants and of other sector
stakeholders. To this effect, a one-day workshop was organized by the PMU on March 18, 2009.
A summary account of the ICR workshops conclusions is included in Annex 7. Key findings
from this discussion are included in the lessons learned section of this ICR.




25 Programa de Modernizacao do Setor Saneamento (PMSS) ­ Transicao para uma estrutura permanente do
Ministerio das Cidades.


                                                  15

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

40.      At the time of writing this ICR, the risk that the improved efficiency outcome and other
outcomes achieved by the project will not be maintained is considered negligible to low. Overall
sector efficiency has progressively improved in recent years as demonstrated by the global
indicators of SNIS and other databases. The steps taken at the local level in strengthening
regulation and in involving the private sector in service provision under different models are
unlikely to recede, and, on the contrary, their impact on efficiency will be further revealed in the
years to come. In terms of advancing sector reform, the new WSS legal framework is expected
to foster sector development and has opened great expectations in relation to institutional
innovations, private sector participation, investment opportunities, universal service provision
and efficiency improvements.

41.      GoB commitment to the development of the sector and institutional support is evidenced
by: (i) the WSS investments foreseen under the 2007 federal program for the acceleration of
growth (PAC); (ii) the WSS strategy26 approved by the Congress of Cities, that identifies six
steps to improve service coverage and efficiency by encouraging a more competitive and better
regulated environment; and (iii) the ongoing preparation of a new Water Sector TA operation
with the Bank. All of this further supports the risk rating to development outcome as low. Lastly,
other elements that favorably influence the sustainability of outcomes are the wide ownership
and demand at the sub-national level for the type of activities supported by PMSS and the
expected further consolidation, improvement and utilization of the SNIS, which will be able to
inform a results-based policy which rewards service provision efficiency.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

42.      The project objective was consistent with the Banks assistance strategy and GoB
priorities at the time of appraisal and approval. During preparation, the Bank took into account
the adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial,
economic, institutional and safeguards issues. An important pipeline of subprojects had already
been identified and fully prepared by Board approval. project investments as designed would



26The six pillars are: (i) the institutional separation of service providers and service regulators: (ii) promotion of
different decentralized alternatives for service provision; (iii) promotion of social participation in service regulation
and control; (iv) use of low-cost technologies; (v) development of financially sustainable pricing schemes which
include subsidies for low-income families where required to assure universal access to basic services; and (vi)
greater cooperation between federal and local authorities and civil society.


                                                             16

have had a considerable impact on poverty reduction by providing access to WSS services in the
impoverished N, NE and CW regions, thus making an important contribution to social
development. In addition, major risk factors and the lessons learned from past operations
supported by the Bank in the WSS sector in Brazil were considered and incorporated into the
project design.

43.     The operation as originally designed focused on the right issues, though perhaps gave too
much weight to specific means (e.g., PSP) as opposed to intended outcomes on the institutional
side. The subsequent course of events is considered outside of the Bank control at the time of
project appraisal, in particular the fiscal crisis that hit Brazil at the end of the 1990s and the
resulting focus on financial reform and tightening of fiscal space, as well as other entry
conditions that changed later-on (the non-formalization of the former Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF)s loan which was intended to fund sub-national counterpart
                   27

contribution). Although these overall macroeconomic circumstances could not be predicted at
design and were outside of the control of the Bank, these circumstances ultimately rendered a
great part of the projects initial design (at least in regards to implementation arrangements,
approach and scope) unfeasible, requiring a major restructuring after five years of stagnation.
After the restructuring, key elements of the restructured operation did not materialize as agreed
(the new loans to CAIXA and BNDES) and though the main objectives of the TA loan had
remained relevant, i.e. increased efficiency and increased regulation, the PSP objective lost
alignment with the new GoB priorities. Given these considerations, the rating of Bank
Performance in the design phase (treating the restructuring as an opportunity to adjust design) is
judged as Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

44.     The implementation history of the project is divided in 2 distinct phases: before and after
the project restructuring. Banksperformance was uneven during these two phases and therefore
the satisfactory rating is the result of several factors discussed below.

45.     Before the restructuring, and even though the project disbursement stagnation was
outside of the control of the Bank, the long delays and uncertainties could have warranted an
earlier reformulation of the project (though this was not necessarily within the control of the
Bank alone). At the restructuring and thereafter, there was a missed opportunity to revisit the
project PDO and indicators to reflect the reduced relevance of the increased PSP objective and
bring it more in line with what the TA project could reasonably achieve (though doing this at
MTR would have required a second almost immediate formal restructuring and approval by the
Board and these associated costs may not have been warranted). Instead the new project focus
and GoB commitment was reflected through the indicators for intermediate outcomes agreed at
MTR.




27Now Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)


                                                     17

46.     After the restructuring, in spite of a tense initial relationship with the incoming sector
representatives at SNSA of the federal administration, the Bank team developed a pro-active
relationship with these authorities and with other key stakeholders and was thus able to engage
the new federal sector players in an ongoing and continually improving dialogue, facilitating the
clarification of misperceptions and engaging in a meaningful debate over sector issues and
priorities. The team was successful at adjusting project activities to the new administrations
expectations and standpoints and proactively attempted to engage former and current authorities
and other stakeholders at a time when the Bank-country relationship in the sector was going
through a period of mutual wariness. This proactivity and involvement in the dialogue allowed
the project to achieve important results overall. The Bank task team was able to remain a
valuable partner to the country by contributing with sound technical concepts, best practices and
methodologies applied in Bank projects in Brazil and other countries. The experience of PMSS
has helped forge a solid partnership between GoB and the Bank in the WSS sector, which will
fully leverage under the projected new federal water sector TA operation building on, interalia,
lessons learned from PMSS.

47.     Supervision missions were consistently carried out at least twice a year and reporting was
frequent throughout. Generally, missions were well-staffed, including fiduciary specialists.
Given the circumstances affecting project implementation during the first phase are considered
largely outside of the Bankscontrol, and the proactive role that the task team played in securing
the new GoB commitment to the project and overall outcome achievements during the second
phase, the quality of supervision overall is rated as Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

48.     The overall assessment of the Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory. Project
identification and appraisal were satisfactory given the sector realities and priorities at the time,
though circumstances meant that a significant amendment to the loan became necessary in the
course of its immediate implementation. The Bank strove to minimize project delays resulting
from the on-lending impasse, the political changes in the country, the new counterparts at the
sector level, and the related new policy emphasis. Although the long implementation delays
have somewhat hindered the efficiency of the operation, and the PDO definition as adopted at
restructuring poses limitations to measuring the exact project contribution to the PDO attainment,
on balance the achieved outcomes justify the long engagement. Therefore overall Bank
performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

49.     It is difficult to assess overall performance of the Borrower over the course of the project
life, as its ownership and commitment to achieving the PDO wavered considerably throughout
the project history as demonstrated by: (i) the readiness for implementation proved inadequate
for a rapid and efficient project launching, even before the on-lending impasse with the passing

                                                  18

of the LRF28; (ii) the impediments to implementation brought about by the LRF were not
resolved in a timely fashion and involved lengthy internal discussions between different
ministries and GoB agencies, with a lack of clarity and consensus in some instances as to the
course the project should follow, as the GoBs political and administrative project counterparts
(Ministry of Planning, the PresidentsOffice and, currently, the MoC) accorded different degrees
of priority to the project during its history.

50.      Following the restructuring proposed by the MoF and until the MTR, there were
differences in the focus that SNSA and the Bank gave to PSP in water sector reform. These
difficulties were in addition to the challenges that SNSA was facing in defining a sustainable
strategy for the sector and were reflected in a passive stance toward the project at the beginning
of the Lula Administration and in a consequent stagnation of disbursements. This is partly
explained by the fact that the new administration had much to contend with just after it took
power in 2003, and Banks reluctance to move away from PSP as the preferred policy tool to
reform the sector might have compounded this situation. However, the GoB could have been
more proactive in ensuring a timely response (while the GoB would have moved away from a
PSP-led reform by 2003/2004, a proposal to reformulate project focus and activities was not
submitted until the MTR in 2005).

51.      Since the new approach to the project agreed at MTR, the GoB has shown a strong
financial support and commitment to achieving project objectives and this has contributed to a
successful project implementation with remarkable results. However given the shortcomings in
the longer history of the project, GoBsperformance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

52.      The key implementing agencies were the PMU as project coordinator and the UNDP as
the project fiduciary agent, and, in a wider sense, the entities in charge of WSS policy and
project oversight to which the PMU reported in different moments of time, i.e., SEPURB, then
SEDU/PR and now SNSA.

53.      The overall performance of the implementing and oversight entities is judged Satisfactory.
The changes in the agencies in charge of the WSS sector and project oversight throughout the
life of the project affected the efficiency and effectiveness of implementation, and the budget
freezing of funds affecting all federal programs negatively influenced disbursement flows after
the restructuring. However, to a certain extent, these factors were outside the control of the PMU
and lately of SNSA. Overall, the strong commitment to sector development and high quality and
professionalism of staff and consultants deployed by the PMU/PMSS throughout its history, and
similarly demonstrated by SNSA later on, has contributed to a successful performance,
particularly in the last three years with the GoBs renewed commitment to the project.



28The lack of agreement with the OECF for a new loan which would provide counterpart financing under the Bank
Project largely accounted for these delays


                                                     19

54.     UNDPs performance since 2004 has been disappointing based on the information
reviewed during the ICR preparation. The entity experienced internal processing problems,
particularly since the extinction of the project implementing unit in the Brazilian Agency for
Cooperation within the Foreign Relations Ministry.29 This entity used to assist UNDP in
processing requests from all UNDP executed projects and its disappearance meant an increase in
UNDPs time to process a procurement request from 45-90 days to 80-160 days, this time
elapsing once the Bankscorresponding no objection had been received30.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

55.     Despite the numerous challenges and some significant shortcomings faced throughout the
life of the project and the consequent variability of its performance, the Borrower concluded the
project in a successful manner and achieved the target value for most of its key performance
indicators (which were taken as proxies for the project outcomes), as well as many other positive
outcomes. This recent performance and its impact on the outcome achievement rating, coupled
with the low risk to development outcome, warrant a Satisfactory Rating.

6. Lessons Learned

Project-specific lessons learned

Strengths

56.     The Projects think-tank role and its contribution to sector knowledge management has
helped to maximize PMSS Program impact. A TA project can actively contribute to sector
reform by: (i) working as a think-tank to promote national debate on key issues, helping to
channel differences and achieve consensus amongst key stakeholders; and (ii) generating solid
analytical materials (studies, information systems) on which to base decision-making;

57.     The solid analytical work sponsored under the project has been extremely valuable in the
design of other Bank projects (as noted in Annex 2), policy notes and other Economic and Sector
Work (ESW) publications and to inform the overall Bankssupport strategy for the WSS sector,
as well as informing the GoB strategy and policy making.

58.     The project has worked well at the three levels of government, the federal, state and
municipal, and has introduced systems that require their coordination, like SNIS. This was a
challenge (and is for many of the Bank projects in Brazil) but the project has performed
remarkably well in this intergovernmental regards. The projects emphasis on outreach and
dissemination efforts partially account for this achievement.




29In Portuguese, Unidade de Administração de Projetos de Agencia Brasileira de Cooperação do Ministerio das
Relacoes Exteriores
30In addition, the cost of the services was increased financial costs from 3 percent to 5 percent of the project cost.

                                                          20

59.      The strong partnership and commitment achieved between the Bank and the counterpart
teams, despite considerable wariness concerning the Banks agenda for sector reform on
ideological grounds, has provided for excellent outcomes under very challenging circumstances,
and provides a solid foundation for future sectoral engagement at the federal and sub-national
level.

Weaknesses

60.      The project has tried to cover too many areas within the broad array of sector issues, and
it might have had more impact if it had focused its efforts more.

61.      The PMSS could have developed clear eligibility and prioritization criteria for its areas of
action, as well as for their identification and ranking, in order to target its support to those
beneficiary utilities through which greater impacts could be achieved.

62.      PMSS could have focused more on positively influencing the budget, credit and
financing priorities and mechanisms of the GoB so as to direct spending on sectoral issues that
have proven benefits and impacts.

63.      PMSS could have reached more sub-national entities by leveraging its resources by
working with training institutes, expanding its pool of consulting firms and ensuring that the
specific hands-on experience was fully replicated.

Lessons learned of wide general application

64.      Structural sector reform processes have their own pace and timing. A wide-ranging
reform in any sector will require the participation of key stakeholder groups, as well as firm
government commitment. The pace at which reform can happen and specific milestones in the
reform process in highly decentralized countries such as Brazil are often complex and involve
multiple stakeholders, often with widely differing interests and views. In the case of the PMSS,
the project provided substantial assistance to the GoB and beneficiaries in the regulatory area,
but progress in passing critical legislation was slower than expected (the recently approved
national WSS framework law was under preparation for over a decade) partly because of the lack
of political consensus among different stakeholders on key issues, such as who holds the
conceding power of concessions in metropolitan areas, an issue currently under review by the
Federal Supreme Court. This experience replicates that of other developed and developing
countries in achieving a reasonable level of stakeholder buy-in for WSS sector reform (Spain,
France, Chile, Mexico). As commented in other ICRs and in a Project Performance
                                                                     31
Assessment Report (PPAR)32 for other WSS projects implemented in Brazil in the same period
as PMSS, this shows the importance of treating the institutional objectives as long-term




32 Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Water Quality And Pollution Control Project and the
Espirito Santo Water Coastal Pollution Management Project


                                                     21

programmatic engagements, rather than projects, and this requires persistence, patience, follow
up and flexibility by the Bank team.

65.     Though in the PMSS case the outcomes achieved and the current level of GoB ownership
overall are thought to ultimately justify the long engagement under the project, an early
restructuring of project objectives ­ or a cancellation­ if they cease to be relevant as defined (i.e.,
a change of Government priorities vs. stated project objective) might be warranted to overcome
stagnation and long implementation delays, as these affect the efficiency of operations and pose
difficulties in assessing both Bank and Borrower performance.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

66.     The borrower is overall satisfied with the quality and content of this final ICR report and
has appreciated the inclusion of their comments to an earlier draft. The GoB is highly satisfied
with the PMSS II outcomes and has proposed its own ratings in their ICR report accordingly,
which is attached as Annex 8.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not Applicable




                                                 22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
            Components               Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)        Estimate
                                                          (USD millions)        Appraisal

Management and Promotion                     7.00                2.64              38%
Water Sector Institutional and
Regulatory Reform                           22.00              29.66               135%

Operational Development                     63.50                0.00               0%
Investment                                165.73                 0.00               0%

               Total Baseline Cost        258.23               32.30              12.5%
Physical Contingencies                      22.92                -                   -
Price Contingencies                         18.85                -                   -
                Total Project Costs       300.00               32.30               11%


(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds                Type of                                 Percentage
                                        Co-financing     Estimate      Estimate
                                                       (USD millions)(USD millions)of Appraisal

Borrower                                                    0.00         7.30             -
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                        Loan              150.00         25.00          17%

Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund                       105.00          0.00           0%
Water Utilities                        Own resources       45.00         0.00           0%




                                                23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project originally comprised four components: (1) management and promotion, (2) water
sector institutional and regulatory reform, (3) implementation of non-revenue water programs in
selected utilities, and (4) investment in water supply and sewerage infrastructure.

With the Projects formal restructuring and cancellation of US$125 million, the Projects focus
shifted towards Technical Assistance to support the sector reform efforts. As such, this annex
presents the outputs of components 1 and 2, given that the financing corresponding to
components 3 and 4 was cancelled.

 Management and Promotion (US2.64 million)

This component financed the staff and expenses of the PMU, including salaries, facilities,
equipment and travel required to carry out project activities under the institutional and regulatory
reform component throughout the implementation period.

 Institutional and Regulatory Reform (US$29.66 million)

This component aimed to finance Technical Assistance to support water sector institutional and
regulatory activities at the federal, state, municipal and utility levels. Most of the studies and
activities financed under the project can be found at the programs website:
www.cidades.pmss.gov.br

1.      At the federal level, the project provided technical support to the SNSA in the MoC,
undertaking key strategic projects that helped shape the sectors overall policy direction, this
support included:

a) Think-tank supporting the national debate in water and sanitation sector policies and to
    the formulation of Consortia Law No. 11.107/2005 and the new WSS Framework Law No.
    11.445/2007 approved unanimously in Congress in 2007 after a long process of discussion of
    different drafts throughout the years. This law aims to increase investments for universal
    access to water and sanitation, while taking into account local specificities and using
    appropriate technologies that are in line with users' ability to pay. It also aims to increase
    sector transparency and "social control" and fills a void by providing a legal basis for the
    federal government in water and sanitation, a role that had remained undefined during the
    previous twenty years. As well as its contribution through analytical work and serving as a
    discussion forum, the PMSS Project has funded experts working on the preparation of
    different versions of the WSS Law and made comments and inputs to the final one.

    The law is a compromise between diverging interests of a broad array of stakeholders. It thus
    leaves some important issues undefined. One of these issues is the responsibility for service
    provision in large metropolitan areas, where some municipalities have challenged the




                                                 24

    constitutionality of service provision by state companies.33 The Supreme Court is expected
    to rule soon on two such cases. The Government has also launched a new Program for the
    Acceleration of Growth (PAC) that includes major investments in highways, airports, ports,
    energy, as well as providing housing, water supply and sewage collection services that would
    benefit poor Brazilians. The Consortia Law clarified the legal framework for regionalization
    processes and grouping of municipalities for the provision of the services, having an
    important impact in allowing for innovation and exploration of efficient institutional models
    for service provision at the local and regional levels. The preparation of this Law was 100
    percent financed under the PMSS program. The Project also became a national reference in
    structuring consortia through its work with several municipalities in structuring consortia34.

b) Consolidated, expanded and improved (i.e., by creating the solid waste information system)
    Continued financing and implementation of the National Water and Sanitation Information
    System (SNIS) . After 13 years of existence supported under the PMSS Program, SNIS is
                        35

    nowadays an important instrument in the evaluation of sector performance, as well as in the
    formulation and execution of national policies and programs, including those related to
    regulatory and social aspects of the sector. In 2005/2006 a new solid waste database was
    created. SNIS enjoys wide credibility within Brazil and is considered a best practice model in
    WSS and solid waste in the developing world and has been emulated in several other
    countries. At Project approval, the number of municipalities regularly reporting to SNIS was
    270. By Project closure, this number had increased to 2,500.

c) Establishment of the National Training Network in Environmental Water and Sanitation,
    (RECESA), together with the Ministry of Science and Technology, FUNASA and the Water
    Resources Sector Fund. PMSS led the creation of FINEP ­ a financing facility for research
    and studies and the definition and set-up of the Network for training and technical exchange.
    Four regional focal points were created, with 4 universities coordinating the almost 80
    participants country-wide (including service providers and other sector entities). The PMSS
    program was the executive center within RECESA Management Committee. The Project has
    funded international training in regulation, water resources integrated management, energy
    efficiency, non-revenue water management, amongst other highly relevant matters.

d) The creation of the Integrated Management System for Water Supply and Sanitation
    Services (GSAN), which is a free and open source software developed to assist water
    utilities in improving service provision through integrated modules for customer registration,
    metering, collection, customer service and management reporting with a structure that is
    ready to be integrated to other management systems within the utility. This software was
    developed with the participation of three WSS state utilities (Pernambuco ­(COMPES) A,
    Rio Grande do Norte ­ CAERN, and Roraima ­ CAER), and another four utilities
    (Amazonas ­ private company, Pará ­ COSANPA, Maranhão ­ CAEMA and Bahia ­
    EMBASA) are in the process of adopting this system.


33These cases are currently with the Supreme Court
34The first Public WSS consortium in Brazil ­ CORESA SUL do PI ­ with the participation of the State of Piauí
and 31 municipalities from the South of the State; and the Inter-municipal Consortium Vale do Itapocu in Santa
Catarina, with the participation of seven municipalities
35SNIS ­ www.snis.gov.br

                                                         25

e) Technical and institutional demonstration project for the integrated management of water
    losses and energy efficiency for specific water supply systems (the Com + Água
    Program). The project features an innovative methodology promoting best practices in
    management, social participation, education and awareness rising as a centerpiece of the
    strategy, combined with the operational and technical solutions. This pilot project provided
    technical support to ten water supply service providers (3 states and 7 municipalities) ranging
    from 17,000 to 173,000 connections. The project provided a detailed diagnostic of the water
    system management, training, equipment and consulting TA. From the perspective of loss
    reduction the program had positive results with seven out of the ten service providers
    registering a reduction in losses. The project contributed to an estimated combined total
    reduction of losses in the order of 10.5 million cubic meters per year with a value of about
    R$7.85 million, as shown in the Table A below. From an energy efficiency perspective, the
    project contributed to a reduction of 2,721 MWh of energy consumed in six municipalities,
    which represent an estimated savings of R$516,008, as shown in Table B below.

Table A: Results of Com +Água Program in Reduction of Water Losses

                           Losses - Liters/Connection/Day
  Municipality (State)                                              Number of Gains ­ Volume Gains ­ Value
                           Jun-05 /     Jun-07 /       Loss
                           Jun-06        Jun-08 Reduction         Connections          (m3/year)         (R$/year)

Viçosa (MG)                  413           321           92               17,562             589,732 $        480,247
São Bento do Sul (SC)        209           217           -8               22,000             (64,240) $      (162,929)
Ituiutaba (MG)               200           231          -31               29,898            (338,296) $       (13,901)
Guaratinguetá (SP)           371           285           86               38,746           1,216,237 $        764,524
Ilhéus (BA)                  542           564          -22               39,734            (319,064) $      (385,487)
Santa Maria (RS)             598           548           50               59,602           1,087,737 $      1,299,192
Montes Claros (MG)           547           419          128               89,620           4,187,046 $      3,893,953
Caxias do Sul (RS)           639           601           38             101,312            1,405,197 $        857,910
Santo André (SP)             290           246           44             167,483            2,689,777 $      1,045,345
Sorocaba (SP)                381           380            1             173,272               63,244 $         67,039
TOTAL                                                   378             739,229           10,517,371 $      7,845,893
Note: BA: Bahia, MG: Minas Gerais; RS: Rio Grande do Sul; SC: Santa Catarina; SP: São Paulo.

                     Table B: Results of Com+Água Program on Energy Efficiency


                   Municipality (State)             Reduction in Electricy Consumption
                                                   MWh/Year                       R$/Year
                 Ilhéus (BA)                             264.33                        $59,344
                 Ituiutaba (MG)                          193.55                        $41,998
                 São Bento do Sul (SC)                     0.00                              $0
                 Viçosa (MG)                               0.00                              $0
                 Caxias do Sul (RS)                      174.17                        $66,557
                 Guaratinguetá (SP)                      438.43                        $89,186
                 Montes Claros (MG)                        0.00                              $0
                 Santa Maria (RS)                     1,273.09                        $157,723
                 Santo André (SP)                        377.73                       $101,200
                 Sorocaba (SP)                             0.00                              $0
                 TOTAL                                2,721.30                        $516,008
                 Note: BA: Bahia, MG: Minas Gerais; RS: Rio Grande do Sul; SC: Santa Catarina; SP: São Paulo.

                                                          26

f) Research, studies and other analytical work: PMSS funded diverse studies to investigate
   technical, economic-financial, and political-institutional aspects of service provision in Brazil,
   opening the basis for discussion of key issues by providing in-depth information, data and
   analysis to inform policy making. The most relevant of these studies were:

    A high-reach study on Dimensioning of sector investment needs36 for the universal
       provision of water supply, as well as sewage collection and treatment and wide
       dissemination of findings (one of the studies on the subject most cited in the press);
    Manual on the Low-cost Condominial System for Wastewater Collection providing key
       information on required elements for a successful implementation and a Publication,
       Condomimial Systems ­ an Answer to the Universal Provision of Sewerage Services;
       aiming to promote the importance of this approach as a sustainable means of attaining
       universal service provision;
    An Evaluation of private sector participation in the provision of water supply and
       sewerage services in Brazil, and country-wide dissemination of findings. This study
       evaluates the impact of PSP in the provision of WSS services, from a company and
       consumer perspective, and how the different forms of PSP and institutional arrangements
       in place impact the overall experience and results. This study had a steering/review
       committee which incorporated representatives from different stakeholder groups with
       varied ideologies, including those historically opposed to PSP, those more in favor, as
       well as sector specialists, politicians, practitioners and other stakeholders. This innovative
       approach had the unprecedented impact of bringing these "opposing" parties to the same
       table.
    An evaluation of the Millennium Development Goals related to sanitation and the
       shortcomings of access to basic sanitation services in Brazil. This study provided a
       country-wide mapping of water and sanitation service provision and defined the
       probability of meeting the Millennium Development Goals in Brazil.
    An evaluation of water quality monitoring for human consumption in Brazil, based on
       the terms of the current legal framework (decree MS518/2004). It reviews and analyzes
       performance a sample of service providers with regards to adequate monitoring of water
       quality and proposes instruments and mechanisms for dealing with any shortcomings.

g) Promoting national and international technical cooperation in the sector participation in
   different national and international programs, through partnering with public and private
   entities fostering the promotion and development of studies, guidelines, pilot projects, events
   and training in key sector issues. Worth mentioning are PMSS associations with: i) the
   Program for Conservation of Electric Energy (PROCEL); ii) the National Association for
   Municipal WSS services (ASSEMAE); or iii) the Brazil group for the assessment of Private
   Sector Participation in WSS (GT PSP Brazil) in the national scenery. Internationally, PMSS
   cooperation with Italys HYDROAID for training and capacity building activities in
   municipalities in particular, with the participation of 100 municipalities from Brazil and
   Portuguese speaking African countries.



36Dimensionamento das Necessidades de Investimentos para a Universalização dos servicos de Abastecimento de
Água e de Coleta e Tratamento de Esgotos Sanitários do Brasil

                                                      27

h) Knowledge sharing and dissemination activities, which included the dissemination of
    analytical work and best practices contributing to the political and institutional debate on key
    issues through a comprehensive and wide collection of WSS related publications, including
    the series entitled Saneamento para Todos (Sanitation for Everyone). The Project also
    contributed to information transparency and outreach through public and regular
    dissemination of sector information and studies in the PMSS website (receiving around
    12,316 monthly visits on average).

i) Sector Focal Point. PMSS has undertaken the permanent organization and delivery of
    relevant sector national and international meetings and other events such as the recent
    International Roundtable Dialogue on the Condominial Approach to WSS Services
    (organized jointly with the Water and Sanitation Program).

At the state, municipal and utility levels, the project focused on providing demand-driven
Technical Assistance cooperation, working with the regional and local governments, regulatory
entities, service providers and managers. TA focused in three areas: (i) support to institutional
reform, including proposals for different institutional models; (ii) support to the restructuring and
revitalization of public service providers; and (iii) support in planning and executing regulatory
activities. The Project focused on financing activities at the regulatory, institutional and
operational levels that could enhance the sector overall efficiency and performance, as well as
improve the quality of service. This support included:

 Demand-driven technical assistance cooperation with seven states in Brazil, namely
    Amazonas, Mato Grosso, Pernambuco, Piauí, Rio Grande do Norte, Rondonia and Roraima,
    in which diagnostic studies were undertaken with recommendations for improvements at the
    technical, institutional and regulatory levels.

    a) In Amazonas, the projectssupport consisted of a comprehensive diagnostic review of the
        current state of the sector, including regulatory and service quality provision aspects.
        The states experience with a private concession for service provision in 2000 was not
        positive, prompting the state to decentralize service provision to the municipal level,
        which resulted in chaotic service provision levels due to the lack of preparedness and
        technical capacity of most municipalities. In the course of the study, the team visited all
        of the sixty one municipalities in the state and evaluated their water supply, sewerage,
        solid waste and drainage systems, including aspects related to the current institutional
        framework in place as well as the municipalitiestechnical capacity for service provision
        and investment needs.

        The technical assistance provided to the state also included a subsequent study focusing
        on institutional and regulatory options for efficient water supply and sanitation service
        provision in the state. Its recommendations were incorporated into the design of the Alto
        Solimões Basic Services and Sustainable Development Project financed by the World
        Bank (Loan 75130), an Additional Project Loan that will implement the recommended
        option in two of the six recommended sub-regions in the state. Another World Bank-
        financed project is under preparation in partnership with the state, and plans to
        incorporate in its design and objectives the implementation of the recommended option in
        a third region.

                                                 28

b) In Mato Grosso, the state government also opted for the municipalization of water supply
   and sanitation service provision with mixed results, given that the municipalities have
   chosen distinct paths for service provision, including private sector participation,
   municipal companies, municipal departments, etc. The PMSS project provided technical
   assistance to the state for a comprehensive diagnostic study on technical, regulatory and
   institutional aspects of service provision, providing support to the Sates Regulatory
   Agency (AGER) as well as documenting challenges, successes and lessons learned. This
   technical support and study will serve as an important input to state officials as they
   decide on future policies aimed at further sector development.

c) In Pernambuco, PMSS provided support in three key areas of importance to the state
   government: (i) institutional optimization of the states water supply and sanitation utility
   (COMPESA), whose recommendations have been adopted by the company; (ii) a water
   demand study for the Metropolitan Region of Recife, which, together with a loss-
   reduction program, has assisted the company in reducing rationing and improving service
   provision levels in the region. The studys results and recommendations have been
   incorporated into COMPESAssector planning, and have laid the groundwork for a long-
   term engagement with COMPESA, which is taking place through the Pernambuco
   Sustainable Water Project currently under preparation. This study also served as an input
   into the design of the Pernambuco State Urban Upgrading Project and the Capibaribe
   Melhor Municipal Project, both are currently under supervision.

d) In Piauí, PMSS provided support to the underperforming state water utility (AGESPISA),
  by undertaking a diagnostic study which confirmed the precarious service provision
  levels in the state due to low tariff levels and a deficient institutional framework. The
  project developed an extensive technical assistance program to the companys technical,
  planning and company restructuring aimed at improving the companys long-term
  financial sustainability.

   During the course of this assistance, it was evident that an institutional restructuring was
   needed at the state level to improve water supply and sanitation service provision. As a
   result, PMSS supported a study that would provide options for an intuitional model that
   would enable the efficient and sustainable provision of services. The recommended
   model was one where AGESPISAs area of influence was limited to the state capital and
   surrounding larger municipalities. The remainder of the state would be divided into four
   sub-regions in which the municipalities would undertake a cooperative model of service
   provision promoting adequate economies of scale that would ensure long-term
   sustainability. The recommended option was approved by the state government and its
   implementation has begun in one of the identified regions in the south of the state.

e) In the state of Rio Grande do Norte, PMSS provided technical assistance in 2003 in the
  form of a rapid diagnostic and proposal for emergency priority actions that were
  undertaken by the state water company (CAERN). Subsequently, a more detailed and
  comprehensive sector diagnostic was undertaken in 2004; however, the state opted not to
  implement the recommendations of the study.



                                            29

     f) In the state of Rondônia, at the request of the state government, PMSS provided technical
          assistance to the state water utility (CAERD) by carrying out a detailed diagnostic of the service
          provision situation with a view towards providing universal access to water supply and
          sanitation in a sustainable and efficient manner. This work included an evaluation of
          current systems, as well as training of company staff in technical, management and
          operational aspects of service provision with the goal of internalization of a results-
          oriented approach to service provision.

     g) In Roraima, PMSS provided technical assistance for improving the efficiency and
          sustainability of the state water utility (CAER) in 2003. The technical assistance focused in the
          areas of institutional restructuring, improving internal process, system and equipment
          modernization, the implementation of a loss-reduction program, and building staffs
          technical capacity, all of which are currently being implemented by the company.

 Demand-driven support for municipalities in the following areas: (a) assistance to the
     municipal regulatory agency for the municipalities of Diadema, Salto and Birigui, in the
     State of São Paulo, and Itabirito and Barbacena in the state of Minas Gerais; (b) support to
     ten municipalities in carrying out diagnostic studies with a focus on the service provider and
     existing systems;37 (c) support to the proposition of an associated management model for the
     provision of water and sanitation services to five municipalities of the Itapocu River Basin in
     the state of Santa Catarina,38 which resulted in the creation of the Inter-municipal Consortium
     for Water Supply and Sanitation Services in the Itapocu Valley; and (d) water supply and
     sanitation technical and operational planning support for the municipalities of Diadema, Salto,
     Birigui (in the state of São Paulo), as well as Itabirito and Barbacena (in the state of Minas
     Gerais).

Table C: Key Project Outcome and Output Indicators

                                                                 Value                                     Target
              Indicator                                                                             Final
      (Achievement of PDO)                                                           Closing                     Original
                                         Baseline       May-05                                     Target
                                                        (MTR)           Jan-07        Date                         PAD
                                                                                      Value         (after
                                                                                                   MTR)           Target
 1.Number of states with sector legal and regulatory framework approved by the legislative
      States                                 0             10             10            15            12             10
      Municipalities39                       0              4             35            35            6              4



37These municipalities are: Caxias do Sul and Santa Maria in the state of Rio Grande do Sul; Santo André,
Guaratinguetá and Sorocaba in the state of São Paulo; Ituiutaba, Viçosa and Montes Claros in the state of Minas
Gerais; São Bento do Sul in the state of Santa Catarina; and Ilhéus in the state of Bahia.
38These municipalities are: Corupá, Guaramirim, Jaraguá do Sul, Massaranduba, Schroeder
39The municipalities of Campo Grande - AGENREG; Cachoeiro do Itapemerim - ARGESA; Natal - ARSBAN; Fortaleza;
Joinville - AMAE; as well as thirty municipalities in the state of Piauí have approved legislation that sets up the framework for
the provision of water supply and sanitation services, establishing rules for the planning, organization, regulation, monitoring and
service provision. The municipalities in the state of Piauí are as follows: Alvorada do Gurguéia, Antonio Almeida, Avelino
Lopes, Barreira do Piauí, Bom Jesus, Colônia do Gurguéia, Canavieira, Corrente, Cristalândia, Cristino Castro, Curimatá,
Currais, Curimatá, Gilbués, Guadalupe, Júlio Borges, Landri Sales, Manoel Emídio, Marcos Parente, Monte Alegre do Piauí,
Morro Cabeça no Tempo, Palmeira do Piauí, Parnaguá, Porto Alegre do Piauí, Redenção do Gurguéia, Riacho Frio, Santa
Filomena, Santa Luz, Santa Filomena, Sebastião Barros, Sebastião Leal and Uruçuí.

                                                                 30

                                                        Value                                Target
             Indicator                                                                 Final
     (Achievement of PDO)                                                Closing                 Original
                                   Baseline      May-05                              Target
                                                 (MTR)       Jan-07        Date                   PAD
                                                                           Value      (after
                                                                                      MTR)        Target
 2.Number of people in the
   North, Northeast and Central-
   West regions receiving water        0          2,600       3,350        3,800      3,000       2,000
   supply and sanitation services
   from private operators
 3.Number of municipalities
   with a formal agreement for                                                                     This
   the regulation and provision                                                                  indicator
   of water supply and sanitation      0            1           2          166           8         was
   services with regional                                                                        agreed at
   regulatory agencies                                                                            MTR


 PDO Indicator 1: Number of states and municipalities with sector legal and regulatory
    framework approved by the legislative: The PAD target value for the number of states with
    a new sector legal and regulatory framework (ten) was achieved by mid-term review. The
    PMSS II Project engaged very early on in technical assistance to some states committed to
    reform, such as Amazonas, Mato Grosso, and Ceará. By the end of the Project, 15 states40
    had completed their legal and regulatory framework and received approval from the
    legislature. In many instances, the technical assistance from PMSS covered advisory work
    on operational and institutional issues. The number of municipalities with new regulatory
    frameworks was set by the PAD at four and revised to six at MTR. Since then, five states and
    31 municipalities approved a regulatory framework for WSS services, establishing the rules
    for planning, organization, regulation and oversight of service provision.

 PDO Indicator 2: Number of people in the North, Northeast and Central-West regions
    receiving WSS services from private operators: By Project closing, the PAD target of two
    million people served by private operators had been exceeded with 3.8 million people served
    through arrangements with private sector operators.

 PDO Indicator 3: Number of municipalities with a formal agreement for the regulation of
    the provision of WSS services with regional regulatory agencies: This indicator was
    introduced at MTR and the target was largely exceeded. By MTR, only one municipality had
    a formal agreement with its state regulatory agency for the regulation of service provision
    (Juazeiro do Norte). The target value for this indicator was set at eight municipalities
    reaching formal agreement with other state agencies. This value was 166 municipalities by
    October 2008, including the passing of 156 municipal laws in the state of São Paulo to
    delegate service regulation to the state regulatory agency ARSESP.




401.Alagoas, 2. Amazonas, 3. Ceara, 4. Distrito Federal, 5. Goias, 6. Mato Grosso do Sul, 7. Mato Grosso, 8. Para, 9.
Paraiba, 10. Pernambuco, 11. Rio de Janeiro, 12. Rio Grande do Sul, 13. Tocantins, 14. São Paulo (ARSESP), 15.
Santa Catarina (AGESC). From the Closing Date, new states have joined


                                                        31

Table D: Indicators 4 -9 on SNIS, Training and Publications


                 Indicator                 Baseline May- Closing Date
                                            05 (MTR)         Value       Final Target    % Achieved
SNIS
4.     Inclusion of information about      13 indicators Revised group   Revised group
service quality and customer service        reported by   of indicators   of indicators    NA
attention in SNIS                          some service  reported in the reported in the
                                             providers   annual report   annual report
5.     Number of municipalities reporting
their water and sanitation information to     2,000           4,516           2,500        181%
the SNIS
6.     Average monthly hits to the SNIS
web site                                      5,000          15,185           5,000        300%
Training
7.     Number of people trained by the
Project in regulation, reduction of non-
revenue water, water and energy               1,000           4,300           1,500        287%
conservation, efficient management of
service provision, among others
Studies and Publications
8.     Number of water supply and
sanitation sector studies undertaken and        11             22              15          147%
financed by the Project
9.     Number of water supply and
sanitation sector publications financed by      21             56              30          187%
the Project




                                                    32

Table E. Overall WSS Sector Efficiency Indicators

                  OVERALL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR EFFICIENCY
                                                      Values                      Target
Indicator                    Unit           Baseline  MTR      Closing                    %
                                                              Date Value    Target     Achieved
10. Labor productivity index Staff/000        3.3      2.6        2.5         2.5        100%
(water and wastewater        connections
connections)
11. Labor productivity index Staff/000        4.9      3.7        3.6         3.3        91%
(water connections only)     connections
12. Labor cost as a                %         36.4     29.2       26.5         28         105%
percentage of total cost
13. Labor cost over                %         53.3     42.8       38.5         39         101%
operating cost, excluding
depreciation (%)
14. Percentage of metered          %         77.6     87.9       89.2         90         99%
water connections
15. Investments financed           %         37.5     55.7       52.7         59         89%
with internally generated
resources/total investments
16. Monthly Consumption            m3        18.6     14.1       14.4        14.0        97%
of water
17. Energy efficiency in        kWh/m3        Not     0.68       0.67        0.63        94%
water systems                  produced     available
18. Working ratio (operating       %         68.3     68.3       68.7        68.0        99%
expenses as a % of operating
costs)
19. Current ratio (current       Times       0.92     0.87       1.01        0.92        110%
assets/current liabilities)
20. Collection rate                %         86.9     89.9       91.7         90         102%

PMSS Financial Performance

The Project closed after the end of the grace period in February 2009 having withdrawn 100
percent of loan proceeds. The Loan agreement had initially envisaged a counterpart contribution
of US$3.7 million dollars. However, the counterpart has allocated US$2.5 additional million to
cover the devaluation of the US Dollar and to continue ongoing project activities after the
closure, plus US$ 1.1 million to pay for UNDP services. This means a total counterpart
allocated to the Project of US$7.3 million. During project execution, PMSS allocated US$8.6
million to other activities/subprojects which had been contemplated under the Amended Loan
Agreement but later on, due to changes in the Brazil legislation, ceased to be eligible as Bank
financed expenditures.




                                               33

Annex 3. Context at Appraisal

Key Sector Issues

In 1997, at the time of appraisal, the WSS sector in Brazil was characterized by a lack of
regulation and an unclear allocation of regulatory functions and responsibilities among the
federal, state and municipal governments, unequal coverage rates, poor sector performance and
service levels and high water pollution rates. Below are additional details on the six key sector
issues identified at appraisal, as a complement to Section 1.1 in the main section of this
document.

1. The N, NE and CW regions were characterized by a lack of WSS service and the poorest
   population in the country. Coverage expansion happened unequally as PLANASA41, the first
   federal government initiative in water and sanitation in Brazil in place since the late sixties,
   prioritized the country's richer regions of the South and South East. In 1991, while 86
   percent of all urban households had in-house water connections, only 67 percent of
   households in the north, 78 percent in the northeast, and 80 percent in the center-west had in-
   house water connections. In the same year, 37 percent of all urban households making two
   minimum salaries or less did not have in-house water connections, and 56 percent did not
   have in-house sewerage connections or even a septic tank.

2. Increasingly poor provision of services, in particular in the poorer regions and to the poorest
   population. More than one-half of the countrys population connected to a water system
   received less than fully satisfactory services and suffered from intermittent provision and
   rationing of water service.

3. Seriously deteriorated environmental conditions in the larger metropolitan centers and
   heavily industrialized areas partially due to water pollution. Water pollution, in turn, was
   caused by inadequate levels of investment, lack of appropriate cost recovery, ineffective
   technology, insufficient coordination between different government levels, inadequate
   capacity to enforce environmental regulations and standards, and limited involvement of
   users and NGOs.

4. Recurrent financial problems, particularly in the N and NE regions, where many utilities had
   become financially insolvent. Sector financial policies, in particular tariff and subsidy
   policies and their cost controls, required urgent revision. The lack of appropriate labor and
   commercial policies, as well as proper maintenance and rehabilitation of existing facilities,
   had contributed to the deterioration of the utilitiesfinancial situation. A de facto grant policy
   via periodic state government absorption of the utilities long-term debt added more
   confusion and lack of clarity to the sectors financial policy.

5. Politicization of investment process of management and lack of accountability demanded a
   new and more competitive institutional model. The investment decision process was not



41The National Water Supply and Sanitation Plan


                                                34

    governed by financial and economic principles but by a system dominated by politics that
    usually discriminated against rehabilitation and other less expensive solutions. Despite the
    substantial progress achieved by PLANASA, the model was deemed outdated, and to
    improve the sectors poor performance, a major institutional reform was required, including
    PSP.

6. Allocation of regulatory functions and responsibilities between states and municipal
    governments was unclear. This ambiguity had been a permanent cause of political
    uncertainty and immobility in the sectors development. The National Water Supply and
    Sanitation System supported by PLANASA had created twenty-seven state-owned WSS
    companies in 1968. Approximately 3,200 of Brazils5,564 municipalities took advantage of
    the plan (although often without formal contracts), granting concessions to the state
    companies for twenty to thirty years. Some 1,800 municipalities chose to continue providing
    services directly on their own or indirectly through municipal companies. The return to
    democracy in 1985 and the decline in federal funding encouraged many states and
    municipalities to devolve services to the local level.

The 1988 Federal Constitution did not clearly assign the responsibility for WSS to either
municipalities or states, contributing to the legal ambiguity. WSS policy thus entered a new era
of legal uncertainty and political controversy. During the 1990s, different state and municipal
governments adopted different models for service provision (including private sector concessions,
return to the municipalities, strengthening of the state company). In February 1995, the Public
Concession Act was passed, casting additional legal uncertainty on existing public concession
contracts with state water companies. By 1998, the lack of a well defined regulatory and
institutional framework meant that political interference dominated crucial issues such as
management, tariff setting and capital expenditure.

The Government strategy at the time of appraisal, contained in the National Water Supply and
Sanitation Policy, sought to expand the provision of WSS services to Brazils entire population
and to improve service delivery efficiency by encouraging a more competitive and better
regulated environment. The Banks 1997 CASto Brazil supported this policy. In turn, PMSS- II
aimed to support two objectives of the 1997 CAS: (i) the structural reform of Brazils water WSS
sector; and (ii) diminish poverty and inequity by improving the health conditions and quality of
life of poor urban populations and regions (N, NE and CW). The following summarizes the
objectives of the governments reform and modernization strategy as initially supported by the
Water Sector Modernization (PMSS II) Project:

1) Separation of competencies between the concession-granting authority and the service
      providers;
2) Promotion of different decentralized alternatives for service provision;
3) Promotion of wide social participation in the regulation and control of services;
4) Implementation of low-cost technologies in efficiently operated systems;
5) Provision of technically, financially and economically feasible services, with tariff schemes
      and subsidies for low-income families adequate to assure universal access to basic services;
      and
6) Participation, cooperation and integration of the Federal and local Governments and civil
      society in the solution of the sectors problems.

                                                 35

The operation as originally designed focused on the right issues, though with hindsight gave too
much weight to specific means (e.g., PSP) as opposed to intended outcomes on the institutional
side. At appraisal, the Bank team properly identified the impact of infrastructure investment on
poverty reduction, and made an accurate diagnosis of Brazils weaknesses in the WSS sector,
particularly in terms of policy and legislative and regulatory framework shortcomings,
inefficiencies in the provision of services and limited private sector participation. The regulatory
framework, efficiency and competition, and institutional development were rightly identified as
the areas on which the project should focus, as well as much needed investments for poverty
reduction.

The Project was expected to benefit two key target groups:

 Directly, the private and public state and municipal water companies within the north,
    northeast and center-west regions, benefiting from the technical assistance for institutional
    development and reform; and
 Indirectly, the population of these regions through the extension of basic services and service
    level improvement.

At the time of appraisal, subprojects in six states and twenty-four municipalities were under
preparation,42 with municipalities, municipal water companies, and state water companies as
beneficiaries. The benefits expected from the decentralized provision of water and sewerage
services in a competitive and appropriately regulated environment and from the encouragement
of private sector participation were: improved operational and financial performance of
participating utilities; reduced financial transfers from the public sector to water utilities; and a
temporary but significant generation of jobs for unskilled workers.

Project benefits would included an expansion of water supply and sewage collection and
treatment services, an elimination of intermittent provision and rationing of water service, an
improvement in the quality of water supplied and a reduction of water pollution levels. The
improved hygienic and environmental conditions resulting from increasing coverage, quality and
reliability of water and sewerage services would translate into better quality of life indicators for
the targeted population. Improved hygienic conditions would lead to decreased infant mortality
and reduced incidence of water-borne diseases. Improved environmental conditions would also
contribute to the recovery of beaches, enhance tourism activities and other water uses, and
increase recreational activities.

By the end of the useful life of investments, about 1.3 million people would benefit from water
production and transmission projects; 0.9 million more would benefit from sewage collection;




42The municipalities with subprojects under preparation are: Joao Pessoa, Campina Grande and Santa Rita
(Paraíba); Fortaleza and Aracati (Ceará); Caruaru, Pesqueira and Varzea do Una (Pernambuco); Pedro II, Altos,
Piripiri and Floriano (Piauí); Cuiabá, Varzea Grande, Juara, Juina, Pontal, Pontes e Lacerda, Primavera, Sinop,
Sorriso (Mato Grosso); and Juazeiro and Itabuna (Bahia).

                                                        36

and 0.7 million more would have their sewage treated. The foreseen investments had a strong
poverty focus43.

Relevance to CAS and Government Priorities

The Project has spanned several CASs since its approval in 1998 and its objectives have
remained relevant to Bank and country priorities through the several subsequent CASs.

CAS 1997: At the time of its approval, the Project was fully aligned with the 1997 CAS
objectives of achieving structural reform of Brazils water supply and sewerage sector and
reducing poverty and inequality by improving the health conditions and quality of life indicators
of poorer urban population and regions of the N, NE & C. This CAS reflected the central
objective of Bank assistance to Brazil for Poverty Reduction throughout the 1990s and early
2000s. The strategy (and the Project) focused on directly addressing the roots of poverty
(education, health and provision of basic services). The growth element of the strategy supported
the governmentsdecentralization and privatization of infrastructure through technical assistance
in regulation and selective lending. With the fiscal crisis at the end of the decade, the strategy
focus shifted to adjustment lending and technical assistance loans, while maintaining assistance
to the social sectors (a revised CAS was presented to the Board in 1998 as the original did not
consider adjustment loans). The restructuring of PMSS II was affected by this new lending
dynamics to Brazil, as well as by the restrictions brought about by the LRF.

CAS 2004-2007: The Project was consistent with the 2004-2007 CAS by contributing to Brazils
long term goal of more equitable access to local services under the Sustainability Pillar.
Towards this objective, a medium term outcome was an integrated federal framework for
investment in water and sanitation infrastructure. This outcome was largely achieved at the end
of the CAS period, with the passing of a landmark federal water law that ended a frustrating
fifteen year period of institutional stalemate and underinvestment. PMSS II contributed to this
outcome by helping to develop the framework for regulation and supporting technical assistance
and analytical work required for the development of the new water law.

2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS): The objectives of the PMSS II Project are also
consistent with the new CPS for the period 2008-2011. The CPS presents several pillars, in line
with the Governments priorities, to accelerate economic growth by tackling one of the major
causes of slow growth, namely the low quality and quantity of infrastructure. Bank support to
the infrastructure sectors during the CPS period will contribute primarily to advancing results
under the competitiveness and improved investment climate pillar. PMSSs continued
partnership with key sector players, top analytical work and technical advice has helped design
the new legal institutional framework, and prepare operationally for its implementation as well as
for better quality and efficiency of public and private investment in the sector. This "low-case"




43 Estimates based on actual surveys in five localities representative of the targeted population showed: that about
65 percent of the expected beneficiaries of water investments and 59 percent of sanitation investments were in the
poverty group (households earning less than 3 minimum salaries per month)


                                                          37

involvement is regarded as incredibly valuable and positions the Bank to provide strong support
in the coming period as sector investments pick up. Water remains a key element of Brazils
strategy to promote sustainable growth and a more equitable and inclusive society and the
country still faces daunting challenges to expand and improve water services.

Bank Safeguard Compliance

The Project was initially rated as a category A, largely due to its investment component, which
was expected to finance a wide variety of water and sanitation infrastructure projects in
participating states and municipalities that would receive category A environmental ratings.
Detailed social and environmental work was done during project preparation. An approach to
conducting Environmental Assessment (EA) was agreed and a sectoral EA for the WSS sector
was undertaken. All thirty-three sub-projects proposed during preparation were subjected to a
detailed screening for potential negative environmental impacts and full EAs were carried out for
the most sensitive projects. After the restructuring, the Project would have been rated category B
as a TA loan, and many of these arrangements were no longer relevant.




                                                 38

Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project appraisal document included a detailed financial, economic and distributive analyses,
as well as risk and sensitivity calculations on a sample of five water supply and four sewage
disposal sub-projects, which accounted for 55 percent of the total project cost.

To identify the incremental costs and benefits resulting from each subproject, "with" and
"without" project scenarios were built for each one of them. The "with" project scenario
considered the proposed investment plan and its associated targets. The "without" project
scenario considered that the service would remain unchanged, that is, the current performance,
coverage, non-revenue water levels and other operational and financial indicators would remain
the same during the projects expected life. Investments needed to keep these indicators
unchanged were considered in the flow of costs in the "without" project scenario.

Costs and benefits associated with the "with" and "without" project scenarios were projected for
thirty years. The cash flows were discounted using a discount rate of 12 percent which was
estimated to be a proxy of Brazils opportunity cost of capital. Benefits from the water supply
subprojects included the reduction or elimination of rationing and intermittent water supplies,
water quality improvements, and service coverage increases. Benefits from sewerage (sewage
collection and treatment) subprojects include a reduction of water pollution levels and service
coverage increases. Based on the sample, the analyses concluded that the project was financially
and economically viable, with a financial internal rate of return of 42 percent and an economic
internal rate of return of 56 percent.

No effort was made to quantify specific health benefits, and it was assumed that all benefits
resulting from a better environment were captured in the willingness to pay survey for sewage
disposal services. Additional benefits, that were not included in the analysis, comprise a
reduction of financial transfers from the local governments to the water utilities and a temporary,
but significant, generation of jobs during project implementation.

A detailed financial analysis at the utility level was also undertaken for a sample of seven
utilities that had expressed interest in participating in the Project, with a view towards (i)
determining the financial capability of these utilities to service the World Bank loan and provide
counterpart funds in a timely manner, (ii) estimating the utilities financial indicators that
determine their eligibility for financing today and in the future, and (iii) identifying additional
actions that needed to be taken by each of the utilities in order to improve their eligibility levels.

Given that the project restructuring ultimately resulted in the cancellation of the investment
components planned under the project, an ex-post economic and financial analysis cannot be
undertaken given the change in the projects nature to one of mostly technical assistance to the
sector.




                                                39

Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                                 Title                  Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Carlos Velez                    Lead Economist                        LCSUW
Caroline van den Berg           Sr. Economist                         ETWWA
Juan D. Quintero                Sr. Environment Engineer              EASRE
Alex Bakalian                   Lead Water Resource Specialist        MNSSD
Abel Mejia                      Sector Manager                        ETWWA
Yoko Katakura                   Sr. Infrastructure Specialist         CSFDR
Claudio Mittelstad              Financial Management Specialist       LCSFM
Supervision/ICR
Carlos Velez                    Lead Economist                         LCSUW Task Team Leader
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira Procurement Specialist                    LCSPT
Caroline van den Berg           Senior Economist                       ETWWA
Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira Infrastructure Specialist              LCSUW
Lizmara Kirchner                Water Supply and Sanitation Specialist LCSUW ICR contributor
Luciano Wuerzius                Procurement Specialist                 LCSPT
Manuel G. Marino                Lead Water and Sanitation Spec         LCSUW
Martin P. Gambrill              Senior Water Engineer                  LCSUW
Nicola Ruggero Saporiti         Investment Officer                     CIADR
Nicolas Drossos                 E T Consultant                         LCSFM
Patricia Lopez                  Senior Financial Analyst               LCSUW ICR main author
Sandra Monica Tambucho Perez Disbursement Team Leader                  LOADM




                                                   40

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                            No. of staff weeks44          USD Thousands (including
                                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                   11                                41.04
  FY97                                                   61                               219.96
  FY98                                                   24                                84.64
  FY99                                                    1                                  4.51
  FY00                                                   13                                46.61
                                    Total:              110                               396.76
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                    2                                10.07
  FY99                                                    8                                51.71
  FY00                                                    7                                49.72
  FY01                                                   22                               112.92
  FY02                                                   23                               141.18
  FY03                                                   12                                88.81
  FY04                                                   12                                92.37
  FY05                                                   15                               120.80
  FY06                                                   16                               106.22
  FY07                                                   15                               113.79
  FY08                                                   13                               100.03
  FY09                                                    7                                53.73
                                    Total:              152                             1,041.35




44Lending: Only the staff weeks for FY00 were available from the system, the remaining years were calculated
based on the average staff week cost for FY00. Supervision/ICR: staff weeks for FY98 and FY99 were calculated
based on the average staff week costs for FY00 through FY08.


                                                       41

Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results


In 2007, the PMU carried out a thorough study45 (PMSS, Transition to a Permanent Structure
in the MoC) following the Delphi methodology to review different scenarios for the institutional
restructuring and organization of the PMSS program in order to provide continuity after Project
closing. This study looked at the projectshistory, assessed program outcomes and advanced the
analysis of future scenarios. The Delphi methodology meant the participation of 72 panelists
representing a wide array of public and private stakeholders in the WSS sector and project
beneficiaries (universities, international organizations, ministries and federal entities, legislative
power, national councils, SNSA, beneficiary states and municipalities, program partners and
individual collaborators) The detailed survey undertaken showed almost unanimous support
within federal and local sector authorities and stakeholders on the need to continue the Project
through a third phase. For more than 80 percent of participants in the survey, the two main
achievements of the PMSS program are: i) its contribution to the development and approval of
the sector legislative and regulatory framework; and ii) the consolidation of the WSS information
system, SNIS. Some additional results of the Survey are highlighted below:

One hundred percent of surveyed participants recognized that the program contributed to sector
development (67 percent decisively, 33 percent partially). According to surveyed participants,
program actions that most contributed to the sector evolution include: i) The consolidation and
evolution of the SNIS (96 percent); ii) development and approval of a sector legal framework at
the national level (86 percent); iii) fostering a discussion environment about the relevance of the
sectors institutional reform and creating adequate conditions for changes in the sector (83
percent); and iv) measures focused on the management of water losses and energy efficiency in
the sector (80 percent).




45Programa de Modernizacao do Setor Saneamento (PMSS) ­ Transicao para uma estrutura permanente do
Ministerio das Cidades.

                                                  42

Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A one-day beneficiary roundtable workshop was held on March 18, 2009, to discuss the results
and lessons learned of the PMSS II Project.

Participants included:

 Representatives of the National Water Supply and Sanitation Secretariat of the Ministry of
   Cities (the Acting Secretary)
 Representatives of the PMSS PMU/UGP (Coordinator and other key staff)
 AEASBE, the Brazilian Association of State Water Companies
 ASSEMAE, the Brazilian Association of Municipal Water Companies
 ABAR, the Brazilian Association of Water Regulating Agencies
 ABCON, the Brazilian Association of Private Water Operators
 State water companies
 Municipal water companies
 Universities
 Consulting firms and individuals

Summary of discussions:

 The PMSS program has proven to be extremely robust and has maintained its important
   'think tank' role in the Brazilian WSS sector, throughout the years.
 Despite political changes in the federal government, PMSS has continued to act as a 'flagship'
   vehicle at the national level for sectoral policy and legal dialogue, for preparation of key
   sector studies and think pieces and for providing strategic TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE and
   capacity building activities.
 PMSS should continue to provide this 'think tank' role for the sector, and should eventually
   be transformed into a permanent entity that does not depend on outside financing to
   guarantee its functioning.
 Better mechanisms should be develop and implemented to more fully and broadly
   disseminate the work that PMSS produces to a national audience.
 PMSS should develop clear eligibility criteria and prioritization criteria for its areas of action
   and for its identification and ranking of potential beneficiaries. It should increase the
   universe of beneficiaries and have better criteria for identifying those beneficiary utilities
   through which greater impacts can be achieved. More attention should be given to scaling-up
   successful pilot activities.
 PMSS should be better used to positively influence the budget, credit and financing priorities
   and mechanisms of the federal government so as to direct spending on sectoral issues that
   have proven benefits and impacts.
 In identifying priority areas of study, technical assistance, capacity building, PMSS should
   better respond to the realities of the Brazilian WSS sector, including: providing sustainable
   access of WSS services to the urban and rural poor; improving non-revenue water; increasing
   wastewater collection and treatment; tackling urban water quality and pollution control; etc.

                                                43

 SNIS should not be allowed to decline; on the contrary, SNIS indicators should be further
 developed to include those related to quality of service provision.
 PMSS should do far more in supporting the issue of WSS regulation.
 The organizational structure of a future PMSS should learn from the successes and
 difficulties encountered in implementing PMSS II: the PMU should be led by Ministry staff
 and supported by individual consultants (or consulting firms) in key areas as appropriate; the
role of UNDP or a similar financial/technical intermediary should be carefully reviewed to
avoid a repetition of the considerable delays that UNDP inflicted on PMSS II's
implementation; if the volume of procurement were to be significantly increased under a
future PMSS then the use of a consulting management firm might have to be considered.




                                             44

Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR

I. INTRODUCTION
1.      As part of its mission, the National Secretary of Water Supply and Sanitation (SNSA) of
the Ministry of Cities (MoC) promotes the development of the Brazilian Water and Sanitation
(WSS) sector, contributing technical assistance, undertaking studies and surveys, participating in
training for the Brazilian cities and states in the area of basic sanitation, collaborating on the
development of legal frameworks and local and regional WSS plans, and, lastly, investing in
management structures and in the revitalization of service providers. In recent years, many of
these initiatives were developed by the Water Sector Modernization Project (PMSS), under the
direction of SNSA/MoC.
2.      The first phase, PMSS I, began in 1993, and it evolved into a program of continuous
support for the branch of the Federal Government responsible for WSS, currently SNSA/MoC.
The second phase, PMSS I, is the result of Loan Agreement No. 4292/BR, signed by the
Brazilian Government and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 1999.
3.      There were two integral components of this Loan Agreement: (i) Institutional Reform and
Regulation, and (ii) Management and Promotion. The first component includes actions related
to: (a) technical assistance to states and municipalities, directed to managers, operators and
regulators; (b) development of studies and surveys; (c) training and technology activities through
courses, dissemination, publications; (d) support to WSS entities; (e) specialized assistance to
SNSA/MoC for the development of a legal and regulatory framework for the sector; and (f)
National Water Supply and Sanitation Information System (SNIS). The second component
includes initiatives increasing the visibility of the Project through the participation of managers
and technicians at events and the carrying out of activities related to the monitoring and
evaluation of the Project.
4.      PMSS was structured around supervision, through the Project Steering Committee, and
execution, through the PMU. A partnership with the UNDP was signed for Project
implementation to act as the Projects fiduciary agent.
5.      The following is an executive summary of the Final Report to be included in the PMSS
Implementation and Completion Results (ICR). The historical trajectory of the Project presents
evidence justifying highly satisfactory results, as they had a significant impact on the Brazilian
WSS sector.
II. INSTITUTIONALITY OF THE PROJECT
6.      If analyzed from a historical perspective, taking into account the diverse administrations,
PMSS presented relative institutional stability given the different governmental transitions. Over
the years, the Project survived the various WSS institutional arrangements within the Federal
Government. To cite the most recent, the WSS sector was first linked to the Secretary for Urban
Policy of the Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management (SEPURB/MPO), then to the
National Secretary for Urban Development under the President of the Republic (SEDU/PR), and
finally, in 2003, SNSA/MoC.
7.      PMSS II encountered implementation difficulties after effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement. The intensive search for a solution, which directly involved the MoF, reinforced the

                                                  45

Projects level of institutionalization within the Brazilian Government. The on-lending of
investments was foreseen in the original institutional arrangements. However, the Fiscal
Responsibility Law (LRF), passed in 2000, prevented the Brazilian Government from lending to
lower tiers of government, thus preventing this part of the Project.
8.      Discussions with the MoF and the World Bank on a solution to this problem led to the
restructuring of the Project. The resources devoted to civil works were canceled and the
resources for the components on Institutional and Regulatory Reform and Management and
Promotion were increased, though only slightly. This process extended until the end of 2002,
and only in August 2003, with the new government of President Lula, was an amendment passed.
The delay in reaching a solution extended the deadline for implementation of PMSS II.
9.      There are several reasons why this episode should not be given any weight in the
evaluation of the Project. First, because the effective implementation of PMSSII occurred after
its restructuring, more precisely, after the signing of the Amendment Term, the project was
actually executed within five years. In the most conservative situation, considering the year 2002
as the baseline, the implementation occurred in six years. In both situations, the time frames
were completely satisfactory for projects with the complexity of PMSS II.
10.     Second, the LRF was of maximum importance for the national macroeconomic situation;
therefore, it was unthinkable that a governing body of the Project, even its executing agency,
could devise a solution or a timeframe for resolving the problem. This was the responsibility of
the MoF who had their own agenda. The Project should not be penalized for the delay in this
process. Instead, the episode should be considered a lesson learned, with the record showing that
greater flexibility in institutional arrangements could avoid future difficulties and impediments
which are unforeseen during Project preparation.
III. POLITICAL-INSTITUTIONAL REFERENCE
11.     The political and constitutional reforms initiated in 1988 put the WSS sector on a clear
road to reform. The effort to overcome the institutional void since the failure of PLANASA
resulted in diverse and competing proposals for the institutional rearrangement of the sector.
12.     These proposals were of distinct ideological origins, some based on government
initiatives, for example PL 4147, and others based on social and political restructuring, for
example PLC 199. In this context, PMSS actively promoted studies and debates and opened
opportunities for the participation of specialists that enhanced the understanding of the sector
from the judicial, institutional, economic, environmental and social points of view.
13.     The Project contributed to the definition of the legal framework for the WSS sector,
based on planning, regulation and supervision, in a cooperative not controlling manner, and on
the provision of services. PMSS prominently participated in the discussion and approval of Law
11.107/2005 that regulates Public Consortia and supported SNSA/MoC in the construction of PL
5.296/2005, as well as in the debates that culminated in the presidential approval of Law
11.445/2007, which set forth national guidelines and established a basic federal WSS policy.
14.     In this context, it is clear that the inclusion of the Project in the political-institutional
agenda of SNSA/MoC was stable and at the same time functionally flexible. The Project
possessed two of the essential characteristics for the high quality performance of SNSA/MoC.
One of these characteristics was its operational flexibility, which allowed the Project to provide

                                                 46

the Secretary with the maximum agility and high quality consultants and specialists. The second
characteristic was the Projects modus operandi, which ensured the ownership over the studies,
methods and systems for the permanent team of SNSA/MoC.
IV. STRUCTURED PROJECTS
15.    Throughout its implementation, PMSS served as the principle support instrument for the
Federal GovernmentsWSS policy as it sought to create an environment that is conducive for the
development of the countrys WSS sector. Numerous subprojects were developed, involving
links with diverse national and international partners. Some of these subprojects include:
    a) National Water Supply and Sanitation Information System (SNIS) ­ This is the most
       recognized product of PMSS in its thirteen years of implementation. SNIS consolidates
       an important tool for the formulation and implementation of policies and programs to
       evaluate the performance of service providers and guide regulatory, surveillance and
       social control activities in the sector. Its credibility allowed it to consolidate a series of
       historical data and information provided by a survey of WSS service providers. This
       survey is progressively expanded in size and representation.
    b) Technical Assistance to States and Municipalities ­ Support to managers, regulators
       and service providers improved efficiency indices, and, consequently, the ability to
       finance the sector. PMSS provided technical assistance in different areas: (i) support and
       incentives for institutional reform, including the proposal of new models of organization
       of services; (ii) support for the restructuring and revitalization of public service providers;
       (iii) support for the planning and exercise of regulatory activities. The overall
       performance of PMSS is highlighted in the following activities:

        Support to State Government of Piauí for restructuring of WSS services in the State,
           including revitalization of AGESPISA;
        Support to State Government of Pernambuco and Municipality of Recife for
           renegotiation of service concessionary;
        Diagnostic and proposals to revitalize the Santa Catarina State WSS utility CASAN;
        Proposal to restructure the management of WSS services in the State of Rio Grande
           do Norte, including CAERN;
        Technical-operational planning of WSS services in the State of Rondônia, including
           CAERD;
        Support for restructuring of CAER/RR;
        Technical-operational planning of WSS services in the Municipalities of Diadema,
           Salto and Birigui in the State of São Paulo and the Municipalities of Itabirito and
           Barbacena in the State of Minas Gerais;
        Support to the management model proposal for WSS services in five municipalities in
           the Bay of the River Itapocu in the State of Santa Catarina (Corupá, Guaramirim,
           Jaraguá do Sul, Massaranduba and Schroeder), which resulted in the creation of the
           Inter-municipal Consortium of WSS in the Itapocu Valley;
        Support to the state (ARCE/Ceará, AGR/Goiás, AGER/Mato Grosso) and
           municipality (ARCG/Campo Grande/MS, AGERSA/Cachoeiro do Itapemirin/ES,
           ARSBAN/Natal/RN and AMAE/Joinvile/SC) regulatory agencies;



                                                  47

    Support to ten municipalities (Caxias do Sul/RS, Santa Maria/RS, São Bento do
       Sul/SC, Santo André/SP, Guaratinguetá/SP, Sorocaba/SP, Ituiutaba/MG, Viçosa/MG,
       Montes Claros/MG, Ilhéus/BA) for the implementation of situational diagnostics
       focused on service providers and the existing systems.
c) Political-institutional agenda of SNSA/MoC ­ PMSS always provided technical
   support for the formulation and implementation of the legal and regulatory framework for
   the sector. The Project contributed to the discussion and approval for Law 11.107/2005
   that regulates the Public Consortia and to the creation and adoption of Law 11.445/2007
   that establishes the national guidelines and institutes federal WSS policy.
d) National Network of Training and Technology Extension in WSS (RECESA) ­ In
  partnership with various Federal Government agencies and Funding for Studies and
  Surveys (FINEP), PMSS led the process of creating and structuring the Network,
  including implementing a national agenda for training and technical exchange. Four
  regional centers were established, coordinated by fourteen universities, and close to
  eighty partner institutions were added. PMSS played the role of Executive Center on the
  Management Committee of RECESA.
e) Com+Água Program ­ The innovative methodology in the management of water losses
   and electrical energy adopted the concepts and practices of management, social
   mobilization, education and culture, and social communication as the principal strategy
   that integrates technical-operational engineering solutions to achieve satisfactory and
   sustainable results. Technical-institutional projects for the management of water losses
   and the use of electrical energy were developed in ten Brazilian municipalities by three
   state service providers and seven municipal operators (Caxias do Sul/RS, Santa Maria/RS,
   São Bento do Sul/SC, Santo André/SP, Guaratinguetá/SP, Sorocaba/SP, Ituiutaba/MG,
   Viçosa/MG, Montes Claros/MG, Ilhéus/BA).
f) Integrated Water Supply and Sanitation Management System GSAN ­ Inaugurating
   an unprecedented platform for the sector, this system provided technical support to
   service providers through freely-available software. During its development the system
   served COMPESA/PE, CAERN/RN, CAER/RR, Águas do Amazonas (private
   company); COSANPA/PA; CAEMA/MA; e EMBASA/BA.
g) Studies and surveys ­ This component focused on technical, economic, financial,
   political, institutional and management themes by exploring issues important for the
   development of the sector, expanding reflection and analysis, providing knowledge of
   tendencies and perspectives for development, and contributing to the implementation and
   evaluation of public policies, of which the following should be emphasized:

    Investment Needs to Achieve Universal WSS Service in Brazil;
    Project of Incentives for Efficiency and Results in WSS Actions Financed by FGTS;
    Status of Deficiencies to Access to WSS in Brazil and Evaluation of Millennium
       Development Goals in Sanitation;
    Decentralization of WSS Service Providers: The State of Mato Gross Case;
    Evaluation of Private Sector Participation in the Provision of WSS Service in Brazil;
    Evaluation of Control and Monitoring of Water Quality for Human Consumption in
       Brazil;

                                            48

    System to Evaluate Satisfaction with WSS Services;
    Condominial WSS System Manual, which resulted in the publication of the
       "Condominial System: A response to the challenge of achieving universal water
       supply and sanitation";
    Technical-operational and institutional diagnostic of WSS services in the
       municipalities of the Watershed of Rio Xingu, in September 2005;
    Standardized diagnostic methodological tools for WSS service providers with a view
       to integrated management of water losses and the efficient use of electrical energy;
    Study of Scenario for the Institutional and Operational Restructuring of PMSS, with
       the objective of continuing PMSS; and
    Study on management associated with Solid Waste in the State of Piauí.
h) Development of Public Consortia ­ Based on Law 11.104/2005, this fostered the
   development of an alternative model of organization and management of services, and
   pioneered a national discussion, that continues to this day, on this model as an option for
   the country. Through technical and institutional support, PMSS was crucial in the
   creation of two consortia: 1º Public Consortium of WSS in Brazil, the CORESA SUL of
   Piauí, with the participation of thirty one states in the south of the State; and 2º Inter-
   municipal Consortium on WSS in the Itapocu Valley, in the State of Santa Cararina, with
   the participation of seven municipalities (Barra Velha, Corupá, Guaramirim, Jaraguá do
   Sul, Massaranduba, São João do Itaperiú e Schroeder).
i) Integration with Other Initiatives of SNSA/MoC ­ This involved technical and
   financial support for the development of works, such as the national debate on WSS,
   approved by Law 11.445/2007; the National Project to Combat Wasted Water (PNCDA);
   the National Project for Public Management and De-bureaucratization (GESPUBLICA);
   the Environmental Education and Social Mobilization for WSS Project (PEAMSS); and
   the projects to promote an improved management of solid waste, among others.
j) National Technical Cooperation ­ This cooperation occurred through the creation of
   partnerships with the Electrical Energy Conservation Project; the National Association of
   Municipal WSS Service Providers (ASSEMAE): the Brazilian Association of Sanitary
   and Environmental Engineering (ABES); the Brazilian Institute of Municipal
   Administration (IBAM); the Brazilian Group to Evaluate Private Sector Participation in
   WSS (GTPSP Brazil); among others. In addition, it promoted the development of studies,
   technical-operational guides, model projects, events and training in themes related to the
   development of the WSS sector.
k) International Technical Cooperation ­ Through the Brazil-Italy Cooperation Protocol
   in WSS, signed between the MoC and HYDROAID (Scuola Internazionale dell'Acqua
   per lo Sviluppo), this partnership developed training activities specializing in public
   management, focused on municipalities, through technical-scientific research, which
   motivated joint cooperation between Brazilian universities and partners (especially,
   Manaus, Recife, Belo Horizonte and Santo André) and Italian institutions. The
   cooperation also brought together the Government of Portugal and the State of Piauí in
   providing management training activities to over one hundred municipalities in Brazil
   and Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa (Angola, Mozambique and Cape Verde).



                                           49

   l) Disclosure and Dissemination of Experiences ­ This partnership with Brazilian WSS
       entities involved providing technical and financial support at various events.
   m) Editorial Program ­ This Program regularly publishes materials promoting political-
       institutional reflection and technical exchange and dissemination, including the recent
       development of the WSS Modernization Series and the "WSS for All" Publication and
       Magazine Series, among which the following should be highlighted:

         Five editions of WSS for All, each on a central sector theme;
         Five consecutive annual editions, since 2002, of Diagnosis of Urban Solid Waste
         Management, under SNIS;
         Three consecutive annual editions, since 1995, of the Diagnosis of WSS Services,
         under SNIS;
         WSS for All ­ Publication 1 ­ Law Program no. 5296/2005: Guidelines for WSS
         public services and national policy on WSS ­ PNS;
         Guides for Municipal WSS Plans, March 2006;
         WSS for All ­ Publication 2 / First Part ­ Restructuring services for WSS in the State
         of Piauí ­ the first Public Consortium of WSS ­ Study scenarios for WSS service
         provision in the State of Piauí, April 2006;
         WSS for All ­ Publication 2 / Second Part ­ Restructuring services for WSS in the
         State of Piauí ­ the first Public Consortium of WSS ­ The process of implementation
         of Regional WSS Consortium in the south of Piauí ­ CORESA Southern Piauí, April
         2006;
         WSS for All ­ Publication 3 ­ The clean development mechanism as a factor of
         financing WSS projects and the impact of PL 5296/05, May 2006;
         Territory and Integrated Urban Water Management;
         WSS for All ­ Publication 4 ­ Management of urban rainwater;
         Six Practical Guides ­ operating techniques in water systems;
         Domestic solid waste: a project of selective collection with social inclusion, in
         partnership with the Municipality of Londrina/PR;
         Condominial System: A response to the challenge of achieving universal WSS service
         provision;
         Extensive literature on the Com+Água Project;
         Websites for SNIS (www.snis.gov.br) and PMSS (www.cidades.pmss.gov.br) that
         publish studies and experiences on the Project, include a database of SNIS.


V. RESULTS ACHIEVED
5.1 Targets and indicators for monitoring and evaluation
16.    The World Bank undertook a Mid-Term Review in May 2005, and according to the Aide-
Memoire, PMSS II had met all the results and targets set by its closure. Given these results, the
World Bank and the Brazilian Government revised the targets and respective indicators for the
evaluation of the results of PMSS II. They agreed to maintain those targets and indicators
foreseen in the Loan Agreement and also added nine new targets and incorporated new indicators.
The table below presents the various results and indicators distributed into the following
columns: Initial (December 1997); MTR (May 2005); Final Situation (February 2009); and the
Final Target foreseen for PMSS II.

                                                50

17.      Some of the indicators were direct and concrete results of PMSS actions, while others
resulted from the general evolution of the sector, with the majority of those obtained by SNIS.
The targets were met for seventeen of the twenty one indicators, with fifteen exceeding the
targets, and with the other two just meeting the targets. Finally, for the other four indicators, the
overall performance of the sector did not meet the target.
18.      The first group of indicators, as shown in the table below, expresses highly satisfactory
results, some with final values above the agreed targets; for example: (i) the number of
municipalities reporting their water and sanitation information in the SNIS for which the final
results are 81.9 percent above the agreed target; (ii) the number of people trained by the project
in regulation, non-revenue water, water and energy conservation as well as management of
services has a final result that is 186.7 percent above the target; (iii) the number of sector studies
undertaken, which is 46.7 percent above the agreed target; and (iv) the number of publications,
which is 86.7 percent above the agreed target.
19.      The group of indicators related to the general water sector evolution in Brazil was
included in the list of performance indicators of the PMSS, considering that within the programs
objectives is the development of actions that contributed to an overall better sector performance
in the country as a whole. Evidently, that are a lot of public and private actors responsible for
this evolution; however, considering the history of PMSS and that the participation of the
program in the sector reform process and improvement of services is a known fact, the analogy
of the analysis with such indicators is fully justified.
20.      With the results achieved it is possible to affirm that the country has lived all of these
years, since the creation of PMSS an effective evolution of its overall performance, as the highly
positive results demonstrate, with a clear improvement in the indicators over the last ten years, as
indicators 10 through 19 in the table below show. Only four indicators did not achieved their
agreed targets, although the final results were very close to the targets, one of each reached 99.1
percent of the target (indicator 14), signaling an improvement in the overall efficiency of the
Brazilian water sector in this period and by analogy towards the great performance of the PMSS.

                                                                   Values
Indicator                   Unit
                                        Baseline     May-05     February         Final         %
                                                     (MTR)         2009         Target      Achieved
1. Number of states with    States         0            10           15           12          125%
sector legal and regulatory
framework approved by the   Municipalit    0            5            35           6           583%
legislative                 ies
2. Number of
municipalities with a
formal agreement for the
regulation and provision of Municipalit    0            1           166           8          2,075%
water supply and sanitation ies
services with regional
regulatory agencies




                                                  51

                                                                  Values
Indicator                   Unit
                                        Baseline  May-05       February      Final     %
                                                  (MTR)           2009     Target    Achieved
3. Number of people in
the North, Northeast and
Central-West regions
receiving water supply and   Thousand
sanitation services from      People       0       2,600          3,804      3,000   126.8%
private operators


NATIONAL WATER AND SANITATION INFORMATION SYSTEM (SNIS)
                                                              Revised    Revised
4. Inclusion of             Quality of          13 indicators group of   group of
information about service   service and         reported by   indicators indicators
quality and customer        customer    N/A     some service reported in reported in  100%
service attention in SNIS   satisfaction
                            indicators          providers     the annual the annual
                                                              report     report
5. Number of
municipalities reporting
their water and sanitation  Municips.   280        2,000          4,547      2,500   181.9%
information to the SNIS
6. Average monthly hits
to the SNIS web site        Hits/month N/A         5,000         15,185      5,000   303.7%
TRAINING
7. Number of people
trained by the Project in
regulation, reduction of
non-revenue water, water
and energy conservation,      People       0       1,000          4,300      1,500   286.7%
efficient management of
service provision, among
others
                                SECTOR STUDIES AND PUBLICATIONS
8. Number of water
supply and sanitation sector
studies undertaken and        Studies      9         11             22         15    146.7%
financed by the Project
9. Number of water
supply and sanitation sector
publications financed by      Publics.    12         21             56         30    186.7%
the Project
OVERALL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR EFFICIENCY
                            Staff/1,000
10. Labor productivity       water and
index (SNIS indicator I048)  sanitation   3.3       2.6            2.5        2.5     100%
                             connects.
                            Staff/1,000
11. Labor productivity         water
index (SNIS indicator I045) connection    4.9       3.7            3.6        3.3     91%
                                  s
12. Labor expenses as %
of operational revenue           %        36.4      29.2          26.5       28.0     105%
(SNIS indicator I031)

                                                52

                                                                    Values
Indicator                  Unit
                                        Baseline     May-05      February       Final          %
                                                     (MTR)         2009        Target       Achieved
13. Labor cost as a
percentage of total
operating cost (SNIS            %         53.3         42.8         38.5        39.0         101%
indicator I035)
14. Percentage of metered
water connections (SNIS         %         77.6         87.9         89.2        90.0          99%
indicator I009)
15. Investments financed
with internally generated       %         37.5         55.7         52.7        59.0          89%
resources/total investments
16. Monthly household
water consumption (SNIS    m3/househo     18.6         14.1         14.4        14.0          97%
indicator I053)             ld/ month

17. Energy efficiency in
water systems (SNIS          kWh/ m3      N/A          0.68         0.67        0.63          94%
indicator I058)             produced

18. Working ratio (SNIS
indicator I030)                 %         68.3         68.3         68.7        68.0          99%

19. Current ratio (SNIS
indicator I061)               Ratio       0.92         0.87         1.01        0.92         110%

20. Collection rate
(complement of SNIS             %         86.9         89.9         91.7        90.0         102%
indicator I029)


5.2. Qualitative Evaluation Using the Delphi Survey
21.      The program carried out a study on alternative scenarios for the institutional and
organizational restructuring of PMSS, aiming at the programs continuity, which resulted in a
publication entitled "Water Sector Modernization Program ­ Transition to a Permanent
Structure in the Ministry of Cities." This study goes over the history of the PMSS, undertakes an
evaluation of the program and an analysis of future scenarios, guided by the Delphi technique,
with the participation of 72 stakeholders, in a composition highly representative of the public and
private actors that are active in the water and sanitation sector in Brazil, including: universities,
specific water sector agencies, NGOs active in the area of water sector public policies,
international organizations, ministries and federal government agencies active in the water sector,
federal legislators, national councils, the National Secretariat for the Water Sector in the Ministry
of Cities, States and Municipalities that were supported by the program (beneficiaries), partners
involved with PMSS activities in the sector, individual collaborators highly active in the sector.
22.      The final report of this study presents detailed survey data and analyses. It is important to
note the summary of some of the relevant results, which contribute to the qualification of the
performance of PMSS.
23.      Advances in the Water Sector in Brazil. For more than 80 percent survey participants,
the two main advances in the water and sanitation sector in Brazil in the last ten years among the
options presented are: (1) the evolution in the development and approval of the regulatory
framework for the sector, and (2) the consolidation of SNIS.

                                                  53

24.     These advances are results of actions of the SNSA for the Water Sector in the MoC,
which counted with the active participation of the PMSS, according to the view of survey
participants and also manifested in the comments made in the open sections of the questionnaire.
25.     Relevance of PMSS to the Sector. The study also evaluated PMSScontribution to the
sector development. The programslongevity, institutional stability and ability to survive many
institutional arrangements for the water sector in the federal government add weight to this
analysis.
26.     The results indicate that 100 percent of surveyed participants that responded to this
question recognize that the PMSS has decisively (67 percent) or partially (33 percent)
contributed to advances in the Brazilian water sector reform and development. The option "no"
presented in the questionnaire had zero responses.
27.     It is important to note that this study has as a premise that other sector stakeholders also
performed a decisive role in the sectors development. As such, the questionnaire always had
"partially" as an option.
28.     In order to explore more thoroughly the quality of PMSSparticipation, the Study has as
a reference the programs role in providing technical support to the National Secretariat for the
Water Sector in the MoC. For this role, the study evaluates the surveyed responses to the work
program of PMSS. For the surveyed participants, the actions of the program that have
significantly contributed for the sectors development are:

     96 percent for the consolidation and further development of the SNIS.

     86 percent for the development and approval of the sectors legal framework.

     83 percent for the role of fostering an environment open to discussion on the relevance of
        institutional reform and creation of adequate conditions for sector change.

     80 percent for the measures related to the management and control of water losses and
        increased sector energy efficiency.
29.     The surveyed participants also attribute relevance in the order of 70 percent to all of the
other actions supported by PMSS, with the exception of the revitalization of public operators and
support to the establishment and operation of regulatory agencies (state and municipal) for which
the indexes were close to 60 percent.
30.     It is interesting to note the coherence in the responses among what is, in the view of
surveyed participants, sector development and what better characterizes the importance of
PMSS role.
31.     Sector Risks with the Closing of PMSS. The study asks surveyed participants to
evaluate if the finalization of actions under PMSS, as a result of the Loans closing, poses risks
of jeopardizing the advances achieved in the water sector. For almost all of participants of the
survey (95 percent) this risk exists, 82 percent of which qualified this risk as potential, while 13
percent qualified as partial.
32.     In qualifying this risk, the respondents evaluated that the discontinuity of PMSS becomes
critical in regard to the continuity of development of SNIS, support to institutional reform,
continuity and scaling up of the training program and to the development of research and studies.

                                                 54

33.     Of the work program undertaken by PMSS, supporting the mission of National
Secretariat for the Water Sector in the MoC , the discontinuity of almost all of the activities
developed by program represents a high or medium risk for 70 percent of the participants.
Below this percentage, there are exceptions only to those actions related to the re-starting
investments and the qualification of public expenditures, which are in fact more linked to
decisions and measures adopted by the of National Secretariat for the Water Sector in the MoC.
34.     Consensus. The study reveals two areas of large consensus; the first the recognition of
the National Secretariat for the Water Sector in the MoC as the body that defines guidelines and
formulates policies and programs for the sector.
35.     The other confirms the importance of the technical support provided by PMSS to the
National Secretariat for the Water Sector in the MoC, which includes:

     The relevance of the work program developed by PMSS, characterized mainly for
            a. Its role as a sector think-tank, highlighted as a privileged space of thinking on
                water sector issues, supporting the SNSA in the MoC in the formulation and
                evaluation of policies and programs through undertaking studies, research, as well
                as production and dissemination of knowledge
            b. Support to sector stakeholders (managers, regulators, operators, users) through
                technical assistance support aiming at an improved performance and quality of
                water and wastewater service provision.
            c. Fostering capacity building, which has become a strategic instrument for the
                general evolution of the sector and the qualification of active sector stakeholders.

     The recognition of the importance of PMSS for the water sector in Brazil and for the
        mission of the SNSA in the MoC.
5.3 Financial Performance
36.     The table below presents the amount of financing used under the PMSS. As it can be
seen, a total of US$48.96 million have been used, which is 42.5 percent above the values
established in the Loan Agreement, reaffirming the highly satisfactory results of the PMSS,
including with regards to financial performance.
37.     In total, the US$28.75 million determined in the Loan Agreement, with US$25 million in
financing from the World Bank and US$3.75 million from the national counterpart funds. Due
to the devaluation of the US Dollar, which happened in the last years of implementation of the
program, the total value of PMSS projects went above the total amount envisaged under the Loan
Agreement, when the resources were exchanged from Brazilian Real to the US Dollar. For this
reason and to assure the full implementation of all program activities, the Brazilian Government
added a contribution of US$1.8 million and extended by its own accord the deadline for the
finalization of activities until August 2009, when the final completion of all projects initiated by
the PMSS II is expected, demonstrating the strong ownership by the Government to the project
activities.
38.     Aside from the above, the Brazilian Government provided resources for the financing of
UNDP in the amount of US$1.148 million. In addition, it should be added that during project
execution, the PMSS was able to secure resources from other financiers for a total estimated in

                                                 55

US$8.6 million, which were used in projects planned under the Legal Agreement, but that due to
changes in the Brazilian Legislation could not be computed as eligible expenditures by the
project, such as:
a) Expenses with payment of staff, airline tickets and per diem for the core team of the Project
     Management Unit since January 2004 for a total of US$2.8 million (Source of funding: OGU,
     through Ministry of Cities; Reason: Prohibition from the Public Labor Ministry that the core
     PMU staff continue to be contracted directly through international programs, with the
     treasury now contracting them through public exams).
b) Expenses with capacity building activities of RECESA, created by the PMSS in 2005for a
     total of US$3.5 million (source of funding: OGU, via CT-HIDRO ­ sectoral fund for water
     resources, MoC and FUNASA ­ National Health Foundation; reason: legal country norm in
     place since 2004 prevents the contracting of teachers of public Brazilian universities as
     resources for international programs).
c) Expenses with activities related to the cooperation Brazil-Italy in the water sector, between
     2005 and 2008, for an amount of US$2.3 million (source of funding: Government of Italy,
     through HYDROAID; reason: a significant part of the activities refer to the training of
     municipal managers in water issues, given the reasons of item b above; in addition, there
     have been many activities of exchange and dissemination of experiences in which resources
     from the Italian portion of the cooperation was used for expenses in Italy).
Loan Agreement 4292 (US Dollar)

                           World Bank                         Counterpart Funds                       Total
Year
                    Annual           Cumulative            Annual           Cumulative      Annual        Cumulative

2000             1,710,000.00          1,710,000.00       301,764.71           301,764.71 2,011,764.71     2,011,764.71

2001             1,295,820.00          3,005,820.00       228,674.12           530,438.82 1,524,494.12     3,536,258.82

2002               690,030.00          3,695,850.00       121,770.00           652,208.82   811,800.00     4,348,058.82

2003               448,275.26          4,144,125.26        79,107.40           731,316.22   527,382.66     4,875,441.48

2004             1,526,000.00          5,670,125.26       269,294.12         1,000,610.34 1,795,294.12     6,670,735.60

2005                          -        5,670,125.26                   -      1,000,610.34            -     6,670,735.60

2006             4,263,110.70          9,933,235.96       752,313.65         1,752,923.99 5,015,424.35    11,686,159.95

2007             7,203,214.66        17,136,450.62 1,271,155.53              3,024,079.52 8,474,370.59    20,160,530.14

2008 (*)         7,497,624.40        24,634,075.02 1,323,110.19              4,347,189.71 8,820,734.59    28,981,264.73

2009 (*)           365,924.98        25,000,000.00         64,575.00         4,411,764.71   430,499.98    29,411,764.71

(*) Includes the values applied in the grace period (10/31/2008 until 02/28/2009)

Additional Financing Mobilized by the Program (US Dollar)

Additional financing by the Federal Government to cover the devaluation of the Dollar           1,800,000.00


                                                               56

UNDP Payment                                                                  1,147,843.53

Staff, travel expenses for core PMU staff                                     2,800,000.00

REeCESA ­ National Capacity Building Network for the Water Sector             3,500,000.00

Cooperation Brazil ­ Italy in the water sector                                2,300,000.00

TOTAL                                                                         11,547,843.53

GRAND TOTAL                                                                   40,959,608.24



VI. Brief Comments on the World Bank Participation
a) The PMSS developed in close coordination with the World Bank, which acted not only as a
    financier, but also as a partner in the concept and development of projects, closely following
    up and contributing with up-to-date and mature technical knowledge of the sector,
    introducing concepts and techniques applied in other World Bank projects developed in
    Brazil or abroad.
b) When there was a need to restructure the PMSS II, the World Banks role was highly
    productive from the point of view of finding a solution. In addition, the interface between
    the World Bank and other Ministries of the Brazilian Government, in particular the Finance
    Ministry, contributed decisively to the continuity of the program.
c) With the change of Governments, the World Bank was very diplomatic in its relationship
    with the new team of Lulas Government, articulating in a pro-active form in favor of the
    programsexecution, conciliating the PMSS II actions with the demands and new policies of
    the Government, without de-characterizing and compromising its scope, objectives and
    targets, assuring the World Banks position in have as a priority the development of the water
    sector in Brazil.
d) This position increased even more the high regard that the World Bank enjoys within the
    Brazilian Government, especially within the MoC. Working in partnership with the World
    Bank allowed for the international recognition of the PMSS, with presentation of its various
    activities in seminars, conferences and congresses held abroad. These include SNIS, Com +
    Água, the study on the Evaluation of Private Sector Participation in the sector and the
    Manual for Condominial Sewerage, which was presented with success during Water Week
    2009.
e) In light of the above, and according to our view that the programsexecution was done in a
    joint fashion, the merits for the excellent results of the PMSS II are also merits of the World
    Bank, reason for which one should attribute the participation of the World Bank the rating
    of highly satisfactory.
VII. Lessons Learned
7.1 Strengths
The strengths are tangible and intangible characteristics that optimized the Projectsperformance.


                                                   57

a) PMSS has become an important technical reference for the sector, given its continuous
   and specialized actions; it has earned the role of a think-tank in the Brazilian water
   supply and sanitation sector. It has become an agent of reflection and an inducer of
   changes in the sector. The publications, technical assistance works and other events
   sponsored by the Program helped to raise the level of the debate. PMSS included the
   participation of professionals from diverse areas of knowledge, thus enriching the research
   on water supply and sanitation, and presenting a predominant engineering vision. The
   Project emphasized and disseminated an interdisciplinary vision from the perspective of
   lawyers, scientists, politicians, geographers, urban specialists, sanitation specialists,
   economists, sociologists, environmentalists, among others. The development of studies and
   surveys with both national and regional scopes assisted the Federal Government in
   developing policies and projects, evaluating government performance and its implications for
   the sector and disseminating this knowledge for the public.
b) In particular, the Project stood out as a national parameter in water supply and
   sanitation information systems. The technical reference of PMSS gained prominence with
   SNIS ­ National Information System on Water Supply and Sanitation, which is recognized as
   an important instrument in the development and implementation of policies and projects,
   orientation and application of resources; improvement in management; orientation of
   regulatory activities, benchmarking, and reference for performance evaluation, supervision
   and social control. SNIS is the largest and best database of water supply and sanitation
   indicators in Brazil, and it is fully public and freely available by the public, private enterprise,
   universities, civil society, non-governmental organizations, technicians, consultants,
   politicians, government leaders, service provider managers and regulatory agents. Among the
   many factors of success, was the importance of collective construction involving the main
   Brazilian water supply and sanitation agents, together with the leadership and coordination of
   PMSS, which was clearly identified and recognized in the country. It is also worth saying
   that both in Brazil and on the international scene, SNIS acquired recognition as an important
   reference for the modeling and structure of water supply and sanitation information systems.
c) Through cooperative actions in the field of management, PMSS helped leverage the
   institutional development of the water supply and sanitation sector. Continuous actions
   in support of management and institutional reform qualified the Project on the national scene
   as a reference for technical assistance, training and proposals of alternatives for review of the
   processes and models of institutional organization. It is worth stating that the achievement of
   results in this field takes time and should be done continuously and satisfy the technical-
   institutional and political characteristics at both the local and regional levels. In this context,
   the fact that PMSS has taken national leadership, at the level of responsibility of the Federal
   Government, in the actions and debates on the institutional reform of the sector and on the
   orientation of government policies issued by the secretaries, was decisive for the strong
   results achieved. The studies and technical assistance undertaken by the Project were based
   on the concept of training in process. The support for sector agents translated in the
   empowerment of people with positive implications for the strategic plan of the organization.
   The modus operandi adopted by PMSS for the actions of technical assistance and training
   induced the agents to internalize the content, techniques and methods and their suitability to
   local conditions. There is a consensus in the Brazilian water supply and sanitation sector on
   the importance of a continuous process of support for the revitalization of service provision,


                                                  58

   which includes both preserving the positive aspects of the current sector organization and
   overcoming the inefficiencies and inadequacies of the various orders, which may involve the
   need of new models of management including the provision and regulation of services. In
   this process of restructuring and revitalization of the sector, the need for a constant dialogue
   with the key partners in the sector, as well as the diagnostic and technical analysis and
   improvement of public policies for management of water supply and sanitation sectors and
   actions in diverse areas, such as engineering, economics, finance, planning, institutional
   development and organization, legal, communication, information technology, environmental
   management, regulation, participation and social control, among others, reinforces the
   importance of the reference created by PMSS throughout its years of implementation.
d) The Project initiated international cooperation in SNSA/MoC. PMSS provided technical
   support and logistics to SNSA/MoC in the implementation of international cooperation
   program with Italy (Brazil-Italy Water Supply and Sanitation Cooperation), creating an
   innovative agenda for the program that helped further refine the strategic role of the
   Secretary. In this context, the participation of PMSS was a great opportunity to disseminate
   relevant work at the international level, thus elevating the name of SNSA/MoC, promoting
   technical exchange and opening concrete possibilities for important international partnerships
   for the development of the Brazilian water supply and sanitation sector.
e) PMSS played a leading role in emerging issues for the sector. The Millennium Development
   Goals and international treaties challenge the sector on issues that go beyond the traditional
   form of planning, organizing and providing water and sanitation services. The Project served
   in cutting-edge and important areas for the management of water supply and sanitation
   services in Brazil, with emphasis on the following projects. The Integrated System for
   Management of Water Supply and Sanitation Services (GSAN), which opened a new platform for
   the sector in the field of technical assistance and support for service providers through the
   availability of free software; a partnership with the National Program to Combat the Waste of
   Water (PNCDA) and the Electrical Energy Conservation Program (PROCEL), which
   promoted the development of studies and technical-operational guides in the efficient use of
   electrical energy in water supply and sanitation systems. Moreover, the knowledge, skills and
   technical acquisitions nationally recognized in the area of water loss management, turned
   PMSS into a reference point in the debate over solutions to the problem. It is especially
   important to cite the Com+Água Program, which developed an innovative methodology for
   integrated and participatory management, focused not only on technical-operational actions
   in the engineering and commercial areas, but also on internal cultural changes at all levels in
   the service providers, using strong tools for social mobilization, communication, education
   and culture. Lastly, the encouragement of regionalization and management associated with
   water supply and sanitation services, especially through the creation of public consortia,
   encouraging the development of an alternative model of organization and management of
   services, and paving the way for a national discussion, which occurs today, on this model.
f) The organizational model of the Project enabled the agility of implementation and
   survived the different institutional arrangements in the sector. Compared to the structure
   of other governmental organs, the PMSS model granted the appropriate degree of
   administrative, financial autonomy and functional flexibility. The Loan Agreement was
   essential in ensuring the continuous flow of resources to the Project.


                                                59

g) The Project was effectively included in the political-institutional agenda of SNSA/MoC.
    PMSS demonstrated its significant ability to support SNSA/MoC in the formulation and
    evaluation of guidelines and public policies. In implementing the public policies for the
    sector, the Project was subject to performance guidelines defined by the Government for the
    sector at the same time as it offered the expertise of highly specialized consultants, which
    was a particular model of organization in which the participation of specialists was required
    and was always met with speed and technical quality. In this context, it is also worth citing
    the invaluable contribution of the Project in the elaboration and approval of the regulatory
    and legal framework of the Brazilian water supply and sanitation sector.
h) The partnership with the World Bank has evolved into the development of join actions
    and programs. The close coordination of PMSS with the World Bank was strategic for
    adding quality and technical knowledge to the programs not only through the participation of
    qualified technicians from the Bank but also through the use of successful experiences of
    other Bank financed projects, not only in Brazil but also in throughout the world.
7.2 Weaknesses
a) By definition, the weak points are tangible and intangible characteristics that should be
    minimized to avoid negative influences on the performance and to point to opportunities for
    improvement. The main difficulties facing PMSS point to the structural problems arising
    from the characteristics inherent in the format of projects subject to loan agreements with
    international agencies, and also, in the case of PMSS, the need to implement the Project
    through a partnership with an international organization in the case of the UNDP. Some
    limitations also arose from the temporary and discontinuous nature of the staff that worked in
    the Project.
b) Delays in implementing the Project arising from the response capacity of UNDP in the
    procurement process. The activities of PMSS, referring to the hiring of consultants,
    companies and services, as well as financial management, compromised the agility of Project
    activities and restricted their implementation abilities due to the poor performance of UNDP
    in its work.
c) Dependence on the no-objection of the World Bank. Despite the record of this original
    arrangement in the Project and the Loan Agreement, the need for no-objection caused a
    certain level of dependency that led, in some cases, to relative delays in the implementation
    of the activities.
d) Insufficiency and insecurity in the contractual framework of the Project. The core
    PMSS team was initially formed by retainer consultants hired by UNDP, with contracts
    renewed every six months. These were then replaced by temporary workers with little
    experience who were placed in the MoC and whose contracts had the specific objective of
    acting with PMSS until its conclusion. Later, other workers were added to the permanent
    team, but they also had little experience. Despite the great professional development of the
    core PMSS team, the Project suffered from the inadequacy of the framework for the exercise
    of proper administrative, management, monitoring and evaluation functions.
e) The risk of discontinuity of the actions undertaken by the consultants. Despite the
    expertise and diversity of the framework of consultants, which undoubtedly added to the
    technical capacity and agility of intervention, the continuity of Project actions was partially

                                                60

   undermined by gaps caused by the contractual mechanism of the noventena (period of ninety
   days after the termination of a contract during which the consultant could not sign a new
   contract with the Project). The strategy of performance through expert consultants was
   appropriate for the characteristics of PMSS and sufficient to guarantee the political-
   institutional reference of SNSA/MoC in the work developed by consultants, not characterized
   by ad hoc actions. This strategy waived more efficient mechanisms to promote better
   communication between PMSS and the SNSA/MoC technicians.
f) Dispersion of focus and on the method of meeting the demands for technical assistance.
   The response capacity of the Project was inferior to the level of demand presented by various
   agents. This is the result of the difficulty of PMSS in anticipating the demand and sometimes
   in focusing on the strategic agenda of the sector. Besides the dispersion in the focus, which
   occurred at certain times, there was also the relative difficulty of systematizing the developed
   works, which had its own technical abilities and possibility to generate more benefits though
   the replication of experiences. Ultimately, there is the risk of losing or diluting the memory
   of public services.
g) Dependence on the implementation of reform actions by the states, municipalities and
   service providers. The actions of technical assistance for reform had a maturation time
   period that was not always consistent with the technical timetables but depended on decisions
   of government leaders, whose decisions depended on the political-institutional arrangements,
   which imposed a slow rhythm and sometimes impeded the implementation of proposed
   solutions. This situation was unavoidable as PMSS related only to technical support and not
   to taking any decisions in specific cases, which inhibited some of the results of the Project.




                                                 61

Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                      62

Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents


1. IRIS Project Files
2. ISRs for Project 1998-2009
3. Water Sector Reform Project II Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
4. Water Sector Reform Project II restructuring documents
5. Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Water Quality And Pollution
    Control Project and the Espirito Santo Water Coastal Pollution Management Project, June
    2007
6. Brazil: Forging a Strategic Partnership for Results: An OED Evaluation of World Bank
    Assistance, 2004
7. Country Assistance Strategy 1997
8. Country Assistance Strategy 1998
9. Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007
10. Country Partnership Strategy 2008- 2011
11. PMSS Website: www.cidades.pmss.gov.br and SNIS website: www.snis.gov.br
12. Studies produced under PMSS, in particular:
     Investment Needs to Achieve Universal WSS Service in Brazil;
     Status of Deficiencies to Access to WSS in Brazil and Evaluation of Millennium
       Development Goals in Sanitation;
     Evaluation of Private Sector Participation in the Provision of WSS Service in Brazil;
     PMSS, Analysis of scenarios for the Transition to a Permanent Structure in the MoC




                                               63

