Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23372
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26070; TF-20849)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
DECEMBER 21, 2001
Financial Sector Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = Meticais (Mt)
Mt I = US$ 0.000059
US$ 1 = Mt 16,987.0
FISCAL YEAR
January I   -    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM                  Banco Commercial de Mozambique
BoM                  Banco de Mozambique
BPD                  Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
BPI                  Banco Popular de Investimento
DCA                  Development Credit Agreement
FSCBP                Financial Sector Capacity Building Project
GOM                  Government of Mozambique
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
IFBM                 Instituto de Formacao Bancaria de Mozambique
MoF                  Ministry of Finance
MOP                  Memorandurn of the President
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
PSR                  Project Status Report
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
SDC                  Swiss Development Cooperation
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
SERC                 Second Economic Recovery Credit
TA                   Technical Assistance
TTL                  Task Team Leader
UEM                  University Eduardo Mondlane
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Manager/Director:   Darius Mans (AFC02)
Sector Manager/Director:  Gerard A. Byam (AFTFS)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu (AFTFS)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
FINANCE SECTOR CAPACITY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1 Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 12
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                   18
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001811                                       Project Name: FINANCE SECTOR CAPACITY
Team Leader: Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu                        TL Unit: AFTFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: FINANCE SECTOR CAPACITY                        LI/C/TFNunber: IDA-26070; TF-20849
Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                          Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   04/15/1993                             Effective: 08/17/1994         08/17/1994
Appraisal:  10/01/1993                               MTR: 11/30/1996
Approval:  04/14/1994                              Closing.  06/30/2000        03/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Govemment of Mozambique/Bank of Mozambique
Other Partners:  Swiss Development Cooperation
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        E. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Darius Mans                               Stephen M. Denning
Sector Manager:      Gerard A. Byam                            David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:  Ahmet 1. Soylemezoglu                     Simon C. Bell
ICR Primaiy Author:  John P. Byamukama
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outconme: U
Sustainability: L
Instituitional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Mozambique Financial Sector Capacity Building Project (FSCBP) was designed to develop and
strengthen the institutions charged with implementing the policy and institutional reforms in the financial
sector, agreed under the Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC), so that financial services could be
provided in an efficient and effective manner. The SERC was desigined in 1993 as a policy-based and
institutional building instrument to support the govermment strategy of creating an environment for rapid
economic recovery and sustained growth following almost twenty years of civil war after independence.
The financial sector had been identified as a key constraint to growth and to address this problem two of
the components of the SERC focused on: (i) strengthening of the central bank to enable it play its role of
administering monetary policy and carrying out effective regulation and supervision of the financial sector;
and (ii) restructuring the financial sector, especially the state-owned banks, which was a source of
excessive monetary expansion that created macroeconomic instability. The Government recognized that
there was a weak human resource capacity in the country to implement these activities and therefore
requested the World Bank for the FSCBP as a companion credit to the SERC to develop the required
human resource capabilities in the sector. The most pertinent institution in this regard was the central bank,
Bank of Mozambique, which was one of the weakest institutions in the financial sector at the inception of
the FSCBP in 1994.
When Mozambique's economic rehabilitation program was introduced in 1987, the Bank of Mozambique
(BoM) was a typical mono-bank in a centrally-planned economy perfonning both central and commercial
banking functions, including acting as the payments and accounting ann of the Ministry of Finance. This
dual and conflicting role for BoM made the conduct of monetary policy almost impossible and was a
source of macroeconomic instability.
With the liberalization of entry of private banks into the financial sector following successive adjustment
operations, it became vitally important to create an independent central bank with adequately trained staff
to supervise the banking system and to formulate and conduct monetary policy. In response to this urgent
need, a decision was made in 1991 to separate and hive off the commercial activities of the BoM into the
Banco Commercial de Mozambique (BCM). However, the majority of the staff in the central bank and
elsewhere in the financial sector had very limited formal education and their training had mainly been
acquired in a period when the banking system operated under a govermnent plan rather than in a free
market environment. It was thus the government's priority to develop skills in macro-monetary
management, supervision of the banking system and foreign exchange management. In addition, the staff of
the commercial banks also needed training to be able to undertake banking business in a deregulated
environment.
The main components of the FSCBP included: (a) training central bank staff so that they could undertake
better macro-monetary management, prudential supervision of the financial sector, and manage a more
effective system of foreign exchange allocation; (b) training staff in the commercial banks so that they
could more effectively provide trade finance to importers, appraise credit applications and, for higher level
staff in the banks, provide more effective overall management; (c) training a core of legal professionals in
the central bank and the Ministry of Finance to review and re-draft financial and other related legislation
for its applicability in a deregulated environment and to also strengthen legal systems, which could
beneficially impact upon the overall operation of the financial system; (d) supporting institution building
within the financial sector, through the recruitment of technical assistance experts who could, in large part,
train local staff and help develop local competences; and (e) studying certain aspects of the financial sector
in greater depth to provide better understanding of possible policy alternatives.
- 2 -



The design of the FSCBP was in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy of poverty reduction and
increased self-reliance in the long run, beginning with the policy and institutional refonns needed for long
term growth. The Credit was in essence laying a foundation for successful financial sector strengthening
and restructuring, which was necessary for macroeconomic stability that was in turn a prerequisite for
sustained growth. In addition, the state-owned banks were making losses through poor lending practices
and causing a drain on fiscal resources through their recapitalizations. Turning these banks into profitable
commercial entities implied big savings on budgetary resources that could be channeled into priority sectors
like infrastructure, health and education.
The design was a consultative process in which the project team had extensive consultations with the
central bank, bilateral donors already involved in banking training, the management of the banks in
Mozambique and the banks' staff on the types of training which were required. A questionnaire of bank
training needs was provided to the banks and the responses were used as an input into project preparation.
Within the World Bank, the project team received guidance and constructive comments from the Regional
Management Team on the content of the project at all stages of project preparation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.
3.3 Original Components:
Central Bank Training. Staff at the Bank of Mozambique (BoM) were to be trained in the core functions
of conduct of monetary policy in a liberalized environment, banking supervision, management and control
of foreign exchange, accounting, legal issues, and human resource management. An important component
of the training was to consist of on-the-job training from long term and short term technical experts
assigned to the relevant departments of BoM. In addition, this was to be combined with short and long tenn
courses and seminars held at home and overseas, and attachments of staff overseas to provide them with a
deeper understanding of macroeconomics, monetary policy, the economics of financial markets, and
quantitative methods. The training program was designed to cover entry level staff and intermediate level
staff with university education or extensive practical experience, and senior management level staff. Where
relevant and necessary, this training would also be extended to the staff of the Ministry of Finance.
Given that Mozambique had no history of proper central banking and entry into the financial sector had
just been liberalized, the proposed training was highly relevant to central bank staff, especially for the three
core departments of banking supervision, economics and research, and accounts. The prevailing low level
of education for staff in the financial sector justified the inclusion of basic entry level courses in economics,
banking, English and computer literacy required by the staff for day-to-day operations. As of December
1992, out of a total professional staff of 239 at BoM, only 58 staff had completed secondary education and
42 staff had some tertiary education. The intermediate level and senior level courses were well defined for
the purposes of providing to middle-level officers the basic conceptual framework that underlies monetary
policy, and providing to senior management an understanding of the core functions and management of a
central bank respectively. In addition, the inclusion in the project of attachments of senior staff to other
central banks in the region and overseas was also a good method of imparting practical experience and
international exposure to staff on the operations of a well- functioning central bank. A useful feature of this
training component was the plan to support the Borrower to take advantage of the protocol arrangement
that the BoM had with Banco de Portugal for the latter to provide BoM with central banking talent and
training facilities.
-3 -



Commercial Bank Training. Short term courses to meet the immediate specific skill requirements of
commercial banks would be identified. The Credit would support training programs in bank credit analysis,
project appraisal techniques, documentary credits, trade finance and management techniques. It would also
provide a limited amount of institutional support for the Bankers' Institute that was being developed in
conjunction with the local banks and the Government of France. The IDA program of short term courses
would supplement the French Government program of developing longer-term banking courses and would
aim to achieve full cost recovery on all the commercial banking courses by the close of the FSCBP.
With the history of a centrally planned economy and low education levels achieved during the
pre-Independence period, bankers in Mozambique lacked the skills to operate in a competitive banking
system. The decision to include training of commercial bank staff in the project was therefore a prudent
one. The training would provide senior management of the banks with skills in internal organization and
administration, designing bank strategies and customer service. The project team realized that there was a
need to change the attitudes of bank management regarding business philosophy and operating style. This
was deemed necessary to improve the banks' efficiency, profitability, and product development.
Additionally, training was also deemed essential for junior and mid-level officers in fundamentals of bank
credit analysis, project appraisal, documentary credits and trade finance as these are key ingredients in
selecting a viable loan portfolio.
The design of this component considered the issue of sustainability of the comnmercial banks' training
program and included support for the strengthening of the newly established local Bankers' Training
Institute, the Instituto de Formacao Bancaria de Mozambique (IFBM) through which the training would be
carried out. The IFBM would be partly funded by the Credit and the share of contribution by the
conmnercial banks to the training costs would be gradually increased over the project period until full cost
recovery was achieved. However, one issue that the project team did not include in the project design or
consider as a risk was the possibility of the commercial banks refusing or not being able to invest in staff
training.
Strengthening Legal Financial Capabilities. This component was a continuation and expansion of some
modest legal assistance provided to BoM under the Economic and Financial Management Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 2066-MOZ). Under this component, legal training in the financial sector would be
conducted to increase the number of well-trained lawyers so as to strengthen the overall legal financial
environment and to create capacity to revise the existing financial sector laws and complete existing draft
legislation in order to build a modem and efficient financial legal framnework. The SERC program
specifically called for revisions in legislation relating to foreign exchange control, insurance, pension and
provident funds, and money and capital markets development for which this legal expertise was required.
This component would also support the hiring of foreign legal advisory services specialized in sophisticated
areas in the ongoing financial legal reforms. These foreign lawyers would be required to provide on-the-job
training to Mozambican lawyers to maximize the results of their assignments. Additionally, further aspects
of institutional development as well as dissemination of the law would be tackled. Institutional development
would involve acquisition of basic office equipment and materials for the legal departnent of BoM and the
Legal Studies Department of MoF, including legal software, photocopiers, and legal literature for use in the
training program. The project would also support the establishment and operation of the Cart6rio Notarial
at BoM through the employment of local professionals and assistants. Dissemination would involve
publication of financial laws and regulations, design of standard legal documentation and contracts, and
publication of a Tax Legal Journal.
The legal profession and institutions in Mozambique were weak and lacked the technical skills to undertake
the task of overhauling the legal system in that period of economic and political reform. Specifically, the
- 4 -



legal staff working in the financial sector were very few and lacked formal training in banking and financial
matters. They were also overburdened with conflicting responsibilities of drafting and implementing the
financial legislation, and developing banking practices and contract documentation. Moreover, the laws in
force were scarcely known by both the legal staff responsible for their application and enforcement, and the
public at large.
The project team therefore responded proactively by including legal training, institutional development and
dissemination in this component. The importance of an appropriate legal environment to the efficient
operation of the financial sector was recognized. Activities under this component were accordingly
allocated 25 percent of the project resources.
Institutional Development. Technical advisors to support the implementation of the SERC program would
be provided to the Research, Banking Supervision and Foreign Exchange Control departments of BoM,
with particular emphasis on the transfer of skills to local counterparts. This would include a swat team of
experienced bank supervisors to train a cadre of local Mozambican staff on-the-job while simultaneously
undertaking a loan portfolio review of the commercial banks. A banking supervision advisor would also be
recruited to assist in drafting regulations and developing a system of off-site reporting for the commercial
banks. Simultaneously, the development of strategic plans and subsequent restructuring work in the two
state-owned banks would also be financed under the credit, including the carrying out of manpower audits,
development of job descriptions and drafting of a manpower development plan. This component would
specifically finance a management support team for the Banco Commercial de Mozambique (BCM) which
was in poor financial health. The management team would be responsible for the implementation of BCM's
strategic plan. Other short term experts would also be recruited to support the legal staff of BoM in
developing the legal framework for insurance, pensions, and money and capital markets and to develop a
better operating payments and clearing system in BoM. The component would also provide support for the
development of accounting and audit capacities in BoM as well as the auditing, for the first time, of the
BoM's accounts (for the year 1993).
Given the weak human resource capacity in the financial sector and the fact that the central bank was still
in its infancy, the project team made the right choice in deciding that provision of technical assistance (TA)
was vital to the successful implementation of the SERC program. Additionally, the project team and the
Borrower were careful during the design of the project to emphasize that these experts would be required to
impart skills on local counterpart staff thus consolidating the gains from the training component of the
Project. The banking supervision department of BoM, which was newly created thus needed experienced
bank supervisors to guide the newly trained staff in the day-to-day activities of the department, and to
develop regulations and supervisory methodologies. The preparation of the first accounts of BoM following
its separation from BCM was also a task that needed experienced experts. One contradiction in the design
however was the emphasis on almost all the TA being of a short-term nature while expecting it to create
local capacities. It is very difficult for an expert to have a significant and lasting impact on local counter
part staff after being in a host country for less than six months.
The two state-owned banks, the BCM and the Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), were in poor
financial condition and were the source of monetary instability through excessive lending to non-viable
parastatals. Any efforts to address macro and financial sector instabilities therefore had to focus on a
lasting solution for the health of these two banks. Despite an earlier recommendation by a World Bank
Financial Sector Study in 1992 that the restructuring of BCM would be a very costly task and with
minimal chances of success, the project still went ahead with this option. The 1992 study had recommended
that BCM and BPD be liquidated and their assets be sold off to other banks and private sector buyers. It
had argued against restructuring because of the high levels of recapitalization that would be required to
- 5 -



bring these banks to the minimum required capital and the fact that government could not afford to pay
these amounts. On the other hand, capital from foreign investors could help recapitalize the banks and
reduce the government's financial burden. However, the govermnent was not prepared to consider the
liquidation or the privatization option.
The project team therefore settled for the "second best" alternative of restructuring the two state-owned
banks and hiring a management support team to help stem the losses at BCM. Given the risky nature of
the restructuring task and the costs involved (the management support team was allocated 20 percent of the
total project cost), the foreign management team should have been give full control of the activities of BCM
and made answerable for the results of the restructuring task. Instead, they were supposed to work
alongside the old BCM management. This arrangement was likely to make the management team less
effective and gave them no incentive to perform to the best of their ability. The project team also did not
spell out clearly in the preparation documents the plan of action for BPD.
Financial Sector Studies. The Credit would fund a series of studies that would be deemed essential for
informed decisions to be made during the financial sector reform program. Some of these studies had been
identified under the SERC program and, included, among others, the review of interest rate developments,
study of deposit mobilization, review of the National Social Security Scheme, study on the issuance of
Treasury Bills, the viability of credit unions in Mozambique, study on the development of leasing activities
and agricultural credit. The credit was flexible and allowed for any additional study and review, which
would become evident during the implementation of the financial sector reform program.
Table 1: Original Project Components
Component                                    Cost (in US$ million)
Central Bank Training                       1.92
Commercial Bank Training                    1.44
Strengthening Legal Financial Capabilities  2.72
Institutional Development                   4.02
Financial Sector Studies                    0.41
TOTAL* .                                   10.51
* IDA's contribution was US$9 million, while the Swiss Development Cooperation was to provide US$1
million and GOM to provide US$0.5 million.
3.4 Reivised Co0nponents:
The project components were not revised. It remained with five components although some activities which
had not been envisaged at the time of appraisal were later added into the project thus necessitating
re-allocation of credit proceeds in the different disbursement categories in the Development Credit
Agreement. The allocation for consultant services was reduced from SDR 4.82 million to SDR 3.35
million, while the allocation for equipment, materials and supplies was increased from SDR 0.31 million to
SDR 1.61 million. A new disbursement category of civil works with an allocation of SDR 0.4 million was
added into the Development Credit Agreement. The additional activities included: (i) hiring of sales
advisors for the privatization of the two state-owned banks (under the institutional development
component), after a change in strategy had been agreed upon in 1995; (ii) civil works on the library
(Documentation Center) of the BoM and IFBM; (iii), support to the Tribunal Administrativo; and (iv)
purchase of vehicles for some of the beneficiaries.
- 6 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project predates the introduction of the Quality at Entry process into Bank projects. It was thus not
evaluated by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) at entry. The project also predates the introduction of
the logical framework approach to project design. Because of this, there was consistent confusion between
the development objective and project activities as evidenced in the Memorandum of the President (MOP),
which states training as a major objective of the project. However, a number of monitorable perfonnance
indicators were identified at appraisal and a project implementation plan drawn up and both were included
in the MOP. The project design benefitted from detailed comments from peer reviewers and continuous
intemal Bank consultations throughout the preparation and appraisal stages.
However, the identification of risks for a project of this nature was not very thorough. Only two minor
project risks were identified during preparation: (i) the likelihood of trained staff moving on to other banks
or to other private sector institutions; and (ii) the difficulty of identifying and recruiting in a timely manner
adequately qualified technical experts in key fields who could speak Portuguese. There was no discussion
or mention of the effect that the post-conflict status of Mozambique would have on the overall
implementation of the project. The possibility of private operators in commercial banks not being willing or
able to invest in staff training was not considered as a risk to the commercial bank training component.
Their cooperation was taken as a given. Also, the risks associated with attempting to restructure insolvent
state-owned banks were not documented. On the training of banking supervision staff of the BoM, the lack
of prompt follow-up actions on the recommendations of bank examiners was not identified as a risk to the
sound operations of the banking system.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconze/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is rated marginally unsatisfactory with respect to the development objective of
strengthening institutions in the financial sector so that financial services could be provided in an efficient
and effective manner.
While the project was successful in increasing the human resource capacity of the central bank and creating
the conditions for stable monetary conditions (following the privatization of BCM), other financial sector
institutions remained weak and the provision of financial services was neither efficient nor effective. The
BoM itself created a core cadre of bank supervisors to carry out on-site bank examinations but the BoM
was not able to enforce the recommendations arising from these examinations. By the middle of 1999, the
financial sector was sliding into a state of crisis because the two privatized banks (BCM and BPD) were
facing adverse financial conditions. The two banks representing about 47 percent of the total market share
of banks in Mozambique at the time were declared insolvent in 2000. Some estimates put the
recapitalization requirements of both banks at that time to the tune of US$200 million. The two banks were
recapitalized by the Government at the beginning of 2001. BCM has now been taken over by Banco
Commercial Portugues (BCP) of Portugal which also owns Banco Intemacional de Mocambique (BIM),
the second largest bank in Mozambique. The central bank intervened in BPD (renamned Banco Astral)
which has now been bought by Amalgamated Bank of South Africa (ABSA).
Although the number of banks and other financial intermediaries in Mozambique have increased, bank
lending spreads have remained relatively high in the range of 18.9 percent in 1997 to 13.6 percent per
annum in 2000. This is largely because of high costs of overheads and non-performing loans in the two
privatized banks, which provided a break on competitive pressure, and inadequate contract enforcement
- 7 -



laws and accounting systems that impeded financial intermediation.
The component for the training of staff of the commercial banks also did not achieve the intended objective
of providing the staff with skills in key areas of the banks' activities. It had been estimated that over the
project's five year period, over 1,000 commercial bank staff would be trained at the IFBM. After seven
years, by the middle of 2001, only 150 staff (including staff of BoM) had been trained at the IFBM.
The FSCBP project suffered from implementation delays in many of the activities. Three years after the
project became effective, only about 33 percent of the Credit had been disbursed. By this time, the SEC
program, for which the FSCBP was supposed to provide implementation support for the financial sector
component, was closing. Implementation progress picked up in 1998 and 1999 and during this period about
US$4.8 million were disbursed bringing total disbursements to about 90 percent of the Credit amount. The
closing date of the Credit had to be extended twice from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2000 and to
March 31, 2001 so that some outstanding project activities could be completed.
In spite of the outcome being rated marginally unsatisfactory, the project recorded some substantial
improvements in a number of areas. As mentioned above, it was successful in increasing the capacity of the
central bank to supervise the financial sector and to conduct monetary policy following the separation of
BoM from the commercial activities of BCM. The completion of the separation of the two institutions was
a big achievement since the dual role of BoM had previously hampered macroeconomic management. A
system of off-site surveillance for commercial banks was established and supervisory methodology for
on-site inspections was developed at BoM and these are currently in use. The privatization of the two
state-owned banks transformed a state-dominated financial system into a more diversified and competitive
system, and eliminated a major source of inflation. When BCM was still state-owned, it was a source of
monetary leakages through loans to loss-making parastatals thus creating macroeconomic instability.
Annual inflation which had been at about 50 percent when BCM was privatized in July 1996 had fallen to
about 4.2 percent a year later and to 1.4 percent in April 1998.
As a result of the project activities, there was also increased human resource capacity in the other
departments of BoM and in the Tribunal Administrativo, and an improved legal and regulatory framework
for the financial sector. The BoM is now producing timely annual central bank reports that include audited
financial statements. Its Economic Studies and Credit Departments also produce quarterly economic
bulletins and have introduced the issuance of Treasury Bills as an instrument of monetary policy. The
Tribunal Administrativo's staff and those of government departments have leamt the correct ways to
present accounts for the Tribunal's review. The Tribunal now has 8 qualified accountants and was capable
of auditing the government's accounts for the first time ever in 2000. The Bolsa de Valores (Stock
Exchange) has also been established and is currently operational although its human resource capacity is
still weak.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Training for Central Bank Staff (Appraisal Estimate - US$1.92 million; Actual - US$1.42 million)
This is a component in which the achievement of objectives was satisfactory. A core set of economics
courses and intermediate level training were conducted for BoM staff at the beginning of the project and 4
staff were attached to the South African Reserve Bank and Bank of Portugal for periods of one to two
months. The attachments enabled the staff to learn and appreciate the operations of a well-functioning
central bank. Eleven staff completed masters degree courses in economics at the University of London and
6 technicians also received masters degree courses in information systems and most of these staff are still
with the central bank. However, because post graduate training did not start until after mid 1998, nine
BoM lawyers on training for masters degrees in law have not yet completed their courses and the BoM is
- 8 -



going to fund the remaining costs for this training. BoM staff also attended several regional seminars and
conferences enabling them to interact with their counterparts from other central banks in the region and
leam from each other's experiences. The credit also financed training in the English language for BoM
staff.
In the area of banking supervision, short-term consultants provided on-the-job training while at the same
time developing supervision methodology for on-site examinations and regulations for off-site surveillance.
The size of the banking supervision department has grown to 22 professionals and on-site examination and
off-site surveillance are reasonably well executed. However, the decision to make the contracts of the
consultants of a short term nature led to disruptions in the training programs since the time the consultants
stayed in Mozambique was not long enough for them to impart adequate skills on the staff. The increasing
number of English-speaking bank managers also hampers on-site examination as some of the examiners
cannot communicate effectively, calling for more intensive training in English communication skills. The
project provided funding to purchase some computers for use by the bank examiners. The BoM did not
however follow-up and enforce the recommendations made by the bank examiners leading to progressive
deterioration of the financial condition of some banks in the sector.
A decision was made during project implementation to replace the formal training planned for senior
management of BoM with a Regional Economists' Conference in Maputo. Given the experience with
conferences and their value added, this was probably not a good idea. Nevertheless, the conference was
never eventually carried out although some discussion papers had been prepared by the University (UEM).
Senior management of BoM therefore never got the planned training to improve their knowledge on the
management and organization of a central bank, the function of bank supervision, the transition from direct
to indirect monetary control, options of financing fiscal deficits and their implications to monetary policy,
and the development of short term money markets.
One issue that was identified during implementation was the need to develop a comprehensive and
integrated human resource development master plan for the whole central bank. Although the credit had
resources to finance a consultant to develop such a plan, the master plan was never developed. Most of the
training in BoM was therefore carried out on an ad hoc basis.
Training for Commercial Banks Staff (Appraisal Estimate - US$1.44 million; Actual - US$0.33
million)
This component did not achieve the objectives for which it had been designed. The start of the training was
delayed for more than a year because the IFBM which was supposed to conduct the training first
concentrated on designing a program of long distance learning. Later when training for the banks started,
the commercial banks were questioning the rationale of gradually increasing the share of costs they had to
pay for the training conducted by the IFBM. The banks did not appreciate the importance of running the
IFBM on a commercial basis and training was halted for a period of time. While the project had envisaged
that the IFBM would train about 1000 commercial bank staff over five years (1994-1998), the institute has
trained about 150 staff to date. The risk identified in this component at the time of project design was that
the commercial banks would lose their trained staff to other private sector companies.The payment for
training by the commercial banks had been envisaged as a mitigating factor to provide an incentive for the
banks to retain staff after they had invested in the staffs' training. The risk however surfaced in a different
way with the commercial banks not embracing the training program.
Funding for strengthening the institutional set up of the IFBM was also provided under this component.
The IFBM was originally supposed to be located at Matola, a few miles outside of Maputo, but was
realocated in 1995 to downtown Maputo. This was thought to be a good decision as transforming the site in
-9-



Matola into a usable complex required more capital expenditure. After the IFBM had discovered that the
space it had rented in Maputo was not enough, the BoM offered it space in one of its buildings. The
contract to renovate and transform this space into lecture rooms took very long to award because the
Implementing Agency had problems with following the correct IDA bidding procedures. Work on this
contract started in February 2000, four months before the initial closing date. Renovations have now been
completed.
Strengthening Legal Financial Capacities (Appraisal Estimate - US$2.72 million; Actual - US$0.33
million)
This is another component in which the achievement of objectives was satisfactory. Work under this
component started at the time of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). A set of four modules for legal
training were conducted within the first year of the project. The Foreign Exchange Act and Banking Law
were revised and presented to Parliament and exchange control regulations were reviewed. However, one
important activity that took several years to implement was the purchase of a printing press for the
Imprensa Nacional to enable the printing of financial sector laws for dissemination. The main problem was
that counterpart funding from the Government was not readily available. When the implementation of this
activity began in 1998, lack of adherence to procurement procedures delayed the contract for the supply of
the printing press but this was finally delivered in April 2000.
Institutional Development (Appraisal Estimate - US$4.01 million; Actual - US$6.9 million)
The achievement of objectives under this component was unsatisfactory. This was the component with the
biggest allocation, accounting for about 45 percent of the Credit. It funded technical advisors to support the
implementation of the SERC program, capacity building in various government agencies and the
development of strategic plans and the subsequent restructuring and privatizations of the state-owned
banks. The original design did not include the privatization of the banks but after a year of managerial and
financial restructuring failed to stem the losses of the banks, the Government agreed to privatize the banks.
The achievement of objectives under the technical advisors was satisfactory but the activities under the
capacity building in governrment agencies and restructuring of state-owned banks were unsatisfactory.
Technical advisors were recruited for the Research Department of BoM and the Ministry of Finance. They
carried out on-the-job training in monetary policy management and public investment respectively. A swat
team was recruited to carry out a rapid on-site supervision of the BCM and the BPD and an external bank
supervisor was hired to train the staff of the banking supervision department of BoM and develop bank
supervision methodology. The results of the swat team exercise were used to prepare a strategic plan for
BCM. Management advisors were contracted for the BCM at the end of 1995 to help with the
implementation of its strategic plan.The performance of these advisors was found to be inadequate as BCM
continued to lose money despite their presence. The project team recommended a revision of their scope of
work in order to make them more effective. The advisors were subsequently put in line positions of
Treasury Manager and Credit Manager to help stop the bleeding of BCM as it was being prepared for
privatization.
The Banco Portugues de Investimento (BPI) was contracted to be the sales advisor for the privatization of
BCM. After a few months, the Bank wrote to the Governor of BoM expressing concerns about the BPI
contract. There were concerns about the lack of intensity in the marketing of BCM by BPI and an apparent
lack of utilization of the expert contracted to help design and market an alternative Government-assisted
transaction structure. In addition, there were concerns of conflict of interest for BPI in their possible
purchase of Banco Fomento e Exterior (one of the commercial banks known to be interested in purchasing
BCM). BCM was eventually privatized in July 1996 with 51 percent of the shares sold to a consortium
headed by Mello Group. However, the government remained a significant shareholder with 49 percent of
- 10 -



the shares.
BPI also won the contract for the sales advisor position of the BPD. However, based on the experience of
the BPI's contract as privatization advisor for BCM, the BoM negotiated a more stringent contract to hold
BPI accountable to a quality transaction. BPD was privatized in March 1997 by selling 60 percent of its
shares to a company owned by Malaysian and Mozambican investors. In both of these bank privatizations,
the Government retained a significant majority stake that did not permit the new owners to exercise full
management control over the activities of the bank. This fact was to prove fatal to the continued operations
of these banks a few years later. Both banks became insolvent and have been recapitalized by the
Govermment. BCM was eventually taken over by Banco Commercial Portugues and the central bank
intervened in BPD (renamed Banco Astral) which has now been bought by Amalgamated Bank of South
Africa.
Computers, vehicles, office equipment, and furniture were purchased under the project to improve the
operational efficiency of the Unidade Tecnica de Coordenacao de Projectos of the MoF, the Departamento
de Cooperacao Intemacional, and the Tribuno Administrativo. The BoM's Documentation Center was
moved into new premnises refurbished with funding from the Credit and it also acquired books and furniture.
These activities were not in the original project design, but were deemed essential by the Government
during implementation and were subsequently incorporated into the project.
The purchase of a printing press for the Imprensa Nacional to facilitate the printing and dissemination of
(financial sector) laws was one of the activities that suffered long implementation delays. The printing press
was delivered in April 2000. The issue of the location, refurbishing and equipping of the Instituto
Formacao Bancaria de Mocambique (IFBM) was not resolved until 1999. The latter significantly affected
the coiunercial banks staff training program which was supposed to be conducted by the IFBM. As
mentioned above, the numbers of commercial bank staff trained by IFBM in the last six years is less than a
fifth of what had been envisaged during project appraisal.
Financial Sector Studies and Project Support (Appraisal Estimate - US$0.41 million; Actual -
US$0.33 million)
The only disbursements under this component were for project management expenses. The Financial Sector
Study that was carried out during project implementation in 2000 was funded by Trust Funds.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic analysis was carried out in the MOP
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No Financial Rate of Retum was carried out in the MOP
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a positive impact on the BoM where its staff received basic training in economic concepts
and post graduate training. The on-the-job training also enhanced the effectiveness of the central bank staff,
especially in the banking supervision department as pointed out in the recent Mozambique Financial Sector
Study of February 2001. The Tribunal Administrativo and MoF also achieved enhanced human resource
capacity. The provision of computers, office equipment and vehicles to various government agencies has
also contributed to more efficiency  in the way they conduct their operations.
- 11 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governinent or implementing agency:
Mozambique had just emerged from a prolonged civil war and held its first multi-party democratic
elections in October 1994. Whereas these were positive developments, the post-conflict status of the
country made foreigners sceptical about the sustainability of the peace process which rendered it difficult to
attract high quality buyers for the state-owned banks. There was also a limitation in locating good quality
consultants who could speak Portuguese. A lot of potential consultants who could have been ideal for some
assignments were hampered by this language constraint. In addition, some project activities, like the
training of staff of the commercial banks, included private sector operators over whose decisions the
Govermnent had no control.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were delays in implementation of some project activities which resulted from lack of counterpart
funds from the Government, despite the fact that the amounts involved were not very large. Also, the
Govenunent did not intervene or require BoM to effectively deal with the causes of implementation delays
although the BoM as implementing agency was answerable to the Government.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Previous experience with Bank projects in Mozambique had shown that the requirement for the Minister of
Finance to approve contracts on all Bank-funded projects led to excessive delays after contract negotiations
had been completed. In the FSCBP, the Government was requested and agreed at the outset of the project
to delegate the Minister of Finance's responsibility for approving contracts under this project to the
Governor of the central bank. This made it easier for the consultants to begin work promptly once the
negotiations were completed. As mentioned earlier, the establishment of an internet hook-up between the
project coordinator and the task manager enabled constant communication between the two and greatly
helped to bridge the gap in the capacity weaknesses associated with the implementing agency.
The project was faced with disbursement delays throughout most of its life due largely to the inability of
the implementing agency to adhere to Bank procurement procedures. At the beginning of the project, there
were concerns that the project administrator assigned from the Bank of Mozambique did not have sufficient
time to attend to project matters. A full time project coordinator was appointed at the beginning of 1996.
Although there were improvements in project management, procurement and implementation progress
reporting issues remained problematic. The delays arising from the slow procurement process necessitated
the extension of the closing date twice.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original cost of the project was estimated at US$10.5 million. Of this amount, the IDA credit would
provide US$9 million, the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) would provide USSI million and the
Government of Mozambique would provide US$0.5 million. The Project which became effective in August
1994 was supposed to close on December 31, 1999. However, because of implementation delays, the
closing date was extended twice from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2000 and then to March 31, 2001.
Total project costs at completion were US$9.7 million, representing 92.4 percent of the originally estimated
project cost. By the closing date, the World Bank had disbursed US$8.48 million or about 94.3 percent of
the IDA Credit, the SDC had disbursed US$1.21 million and the Government of Mozambique had provided
US$0.01 million.
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale/for sustainability rating:
The training component in the BoM has created increased human resource capacity in the central bank and
most of the staff trained have been retained so far. The same applies to the Tribunal Administrativo which
has generated enough capacity and was able in 2000 to audit government accounts for the first time ever.
The Government has made a fundamental shift in its attitude towards a privately-run financial sector and
its policy on the ownership of financial institutions is now clearly defined with the Government only
responsible for the creation of an enabling environment. This was demonstrated when the BoM was able to
deal with the financial crisis created by the problems of BCM and BPD through changing the private
ownership of the two banks rather than the Government repossessing these privatized banks. Several
institutions that have an impact on the performance of the financial sector have been established or
provided with support from the project and are in the process of becoming financially self-sustaining.
These include the Bolsa de Valores, the Imprensa Nacional and the IFBM.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The BoM initiated transition arrangements to regular operations in March 1999 by terrninating the contract
of the project coordinator which was being funded from the credit and incorporating responsibility for the
remaining project activities into its mainstream activities. Responsibility for project activities was assigned
to the International Relations Department. The IFBM has developed a substantial program for in-house
training and distance learning activities as one of the ways to become financially self-sustaining. The Bolsa
de Valores whose establishment in 1999 was partly funded by the project has six bonds listed on the sock
exchange and the first equity was listed in November 2001.
The Bank's Financial Sector Study of February 2001 identified a number of areas that require further
strengthening if the Mozambican financial sector has to provide efficient intennediation. These include
reduction of inefficiencies in the banking system (control of operating costs and better risk control
systems), strengthening contract enforcement systems, more independence to the BoM in its supervisory
role, improved liquidity management, revision of the commercial code, strengthening the judiciary, and
development of contractual savings institutions. The agenda is broad and the issues identified in the study
need to be addressed as soon as possible.
A number of activities in this project suffered implementation delays and the impact of their implementation
is yet to register. It would be prudent to wait another eighteen months before an impact evaluation can be
carried out by OED.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. The
project design was based upon the Government's specific request to increase human resource capacity in
the financial sector, especially in the BoM, in order to successfully implement the fmancial sector
component of the SERC program. A series of interactions by the project team with the stakeholders on the
specific requirements of capacity building in the financial sector, and with the three major bilateral donors
involved in the sector at the time (France, Switzerland and Portugal), provided inputs into the final project
design. There were extensive consultations within the Bank from the identification up to the appraisal
stages and useful comments were received from peer reviewers, regional management and country team
- 13 -



members that helped improve the final content of the project. In order to test the Government's commitment
to the project, the Bank required the Government to carry out certain actions prior to negotiations and
Board presentation, which were carried out in an expedited manner. The conditions for negotiation included
requesting for funding under the PPF to develop a strategic plan for BCM, selection of a firm to provide a
swat team for banking supervision, approval of a contract with the legal firm to provide support to the legal
department of the BoM, and selecting an auditor for the project. The latter condition was waived at the
Government's request and was instead instituted as a condition for Board presentation. Other conditions of
Board presentation included the BoM preparing a satisfactory plan to reverse the dormant status of special
accounts on other Bank projects by submitting replenishment requests and refunding all outstanding
amounts on closed credits. The project which was pre-appraised in July 1993, was appraised in October
1993, approved by the Board in April 1994 and became effective in August 1994.
Two project risks were identified during preparation: (i) the likelihood of trained staff moving on to other
banks or to other private sector institutions; and (ii) the difficulty of identifying and recruiting in a timely
manner adequately qualified Portuguese speaking technical experts in key fields. To mitigate the first risk,
it was argued that staff moving from Bank of Mozambique to other banks were not a particular problem
since the expertise would still remain within the financial sector. In any case, staff at the Bank of
Mozambique were considered to be less mobile than the staff of other quasi-public institutions because of
the relatively better conditions of service offered by the central bank. In order to retain the trained staff of
the commercial banks, the Bank team proposed that the banks should be made to pay for the training on a
graduated basis, up to full cost recovery by the fifth year of the program, so as to make the management of
the banks focus on incentives to retain the staff on whom they have incurred training costs. With regard to
the recruitment of Portuguese speaking experts, the Government was advised to start work on recruiting
key individuals immediately before the project even became effective. However, the identification of risks
was not exhaustive as risks associated with the post-conflict status of the country, restructuring of
state-owned banks, and training of commercial bank staff were not considered.
7.2 Suipervision:
The supervision of the project by the Bank was unsatisfactory. It had been recognized during appraisal that
the implementing agency had capacity weaknesses and thus needed adequate support based at the Country
Office in Maputo. At the beginning, a local staff was recruited to help with project implementation. The
project team also decided to establish an intemet connection between the Project Coordinator and the Bank
so as to increase the efficiency of communication and support provided to the implementing agency. These
measures did not improve the effectiveness of the implementing agency and progress remained slow. The
Task Manager was relocated from Washington to the Maputo office in order to provide hands-on support
to the Project Coordinator. This however did not accelerate the speed of implementation substantially.
There were on average two official supervision missions per year irivolving headquarter staff, field office
staff and consultants qualified in the relevant disciplines. A total of 11 supervision missions were carried
out throughout the life of the project (see Annex 4). Project implementation progress was reported in
detailed Aide-memoire, which also highlighted the outstanding issues and suggested actions. However, a
number of issues tended to remain outstanding for long periods of time and the project team did not devise
proactive ways of assisting the Implementing Agency to address them. In addition, information in mission
Aide-memoire was not properly transferred into the PSRs and some of the ratings given in these reports
were rather optimistic and not consistent with the issues raised in the Aide-memoire. Although the project
suffered implementation delays, implementation progress was rated satisfactory throughout the life of the
project with the exception of one occasion. Another case of this disconnect was when the state-owned banks
were privatized (a big achievement itself) and the Development Objective rating of the project was
upgraded to Highly Satisfactory only on this basis in spite of the fact that the performance on other
- 14 -



components of the project had mixed results.
The above weakness not withstanding, the project team was flexible and responsive to the Borrower's
concerns and suggestions. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended on several occasions
to incorporate activities not included in the original project design but which the Borrower found necessary
during implementation and to extend the closing date of the Credit. More importantly, when the
Government finally accepted that restructuring of the state-owned banks was not working and the strategy
was changed to privatization of the banks, the Bank responded positively and provided resources for the
sales advisors which had not originally been envisaged in the project design. The Bank also carried out a
study in 1996 which showed that privatization of BPD was not likely to be successful given the poor
financial position the bank was in. However, the project team did not document in the PSRs the risks
associated with the privatization of these highly insolvent banks.
7.3 Over all Bank perfornmance:
Overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory, although this is on the thin borderline between "marginally
satisfactory" and "unsatisfactory" . The project team sought the input of the stakeholders during the early
stages of project preparation to ensure that the project was relevant to the needs of the Borrower. It also
coordinated with the major donors who were involved in the area of banking training at the time. Relying on
previous experience with Bank projects in Mozambique, the team also recognized the likely limitations in
the capacity of the implementing agency and thus made sure that there was always a member of the project
team in the Maputo office to support the Project Coordinator. However, the project team did not ensure
that issues or potential implementation problems identified during supervision missions were addressed in a
timely manner. Procurement problems persisted throughout the life of the project and the project team did
not find proactive ways to address this. The limited cooperation by the Government in the privatization of
the banks was also not raised as a major issue by the project team.
On the positive side, throughout the supervision period, the Bank team was flexible in its response to the
Borrower's requirements as exemplified by the re-allocation of Credit proceeds on two occasions and the
extension of the closing date of the Credit, both at the request of the Borrower.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory. High level officials in the central bank
and the Ministry of Finance were involved in the identification process which culminated in the solicitation
of input from other stakeholders in the financial sector. As mentioned earlier, the Borrower was asked to
carry out specific actions prior to negotiations and Board presentation. All these were met in a timely basis
except one condition of negotiation (appointment of an external auditor for the credit) which was shifted to
a condition of Board presentation. The responsiveness of the Borrower made it possible for the credit to be
prepared, appraised and approved in less than a year.
7.5 Government implementation performnance:
The Government's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory. While the Government made
important adjustments in its position during implementation (the most important of these adjustments was
shifting from the restructuring of state-owned banks to privatization on an "as is" basis), it did not
cooperate fully with the Bank in some areas, especially with regard to the privatization of banks. The
Government did not impress upon the sales advisor the need to put a premium on the quality of the
identified buyers. There were also delays in the provision of counterpart funds which affected the speed of
implementation of the Imprensa Nacional activity of buying a printing press to facilitate the dissemination
of financial sector laws.
- 15-



However, the Government's shift to a privatization strategy yielded benefits to the country. Following the
privatization of the two banks which were a major source of excessive monetary growth, inflation was
controlled and there was improved macroeconomic stability.
7.6 Implemnenting Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was unsatisfactory. Responsibility for project coordination
was initially entrusted to the Human Resources Department of BoM. However, within the first year of
project implementation, it was evident that the coordinator did not have sufficient time to attend to project
matters. There was no adequate follow-up on issues identified during supervision missions and there were
continuous delays in contracting largely because the project coordinator could not follow the Bank's
procurement procedures properly. This led to persistently low disbursement figures during the first three
years of the project.
A full time project coordinator was appointed at the beginning of 1996. Although there were improvements
in overall project management, the problem of lack of follow-up on issues identified during supervision
missions and failure to follow procurement guidelines persisted. The quarterly implementation progress
reports which had been agreed at negotiations were not forthcoming and the privatization advisor of the
first bank privatization was not properly managed. There were complaints of lack of information on what
the privatization advisor was doing, how poorly the marketing of the transaction was carried out and claims
of conflict of interest on the part of the privatization advisor. As a result of these problems, the
Development Objective and the Implementation Progress ratings of the project were downgraded to
"Unsatisfactory" at one point in May 1996 (see Annex 4).
7.7 Overall Borrowver performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was unsatisfactory. Although the Borrower remained committed
to the objectives of the project and was engaged in continuous dialogue with the Bank on policy issues,
there were instances where information affecting the financial sector reform program was not freely shared
with the Bank. The Borrower also did little to solve the problems that caused delays in implementation
progress. The implementing agency did not carry out adequate follow-up on the issues raised and actions
recommended by the Bank's supervision missions. Several issues remained outstanding for a number of
years. The implementing agency's performance was largely responsible for the delays in some components.
8. Lessons Learned
Several lessons can be learned from the implementation of this project:
*   In the privatization of state-owned banks, more attention should be paid to the quality of the
privatizations. The emphasis should be on a transparent process that will bring in an investor of
high integrity and reputation rather than on completing the privatization process as fast as possible.
When potential buyers have been identified, the central bank should perform a fit and proper test
on the buyers prior to the approval of the sale and issuance of the banking license.
*   The removal of political influence in the banks' day to day operations should be a top priority
during privatization but this was not the case in Mozambique. In BCM and BPD, the Government
remained a significant minority shareholder with 49 percent and 40 percent stakes respectively,
meaning that the new owners did not have full control over the activities of the bank. They did not
have the free hand to make the staff reductions that they wanted to make. In both banks,
- 16 -



Mozambican political interests were involved behind the screen of holding companies. The
continued politicization of the banks after 'privatization' meant that they never improved credit
controls and efficiency as would have happened under true, responsible, private ownership. In
effect, the banks were never transformed into proper commercial entities and it was just a matter of
time before the cost of political influence spilled over into crisis.
*   It is important to determine whether conditions in the country are conducive to privatization of
banks and whether the Authorities believe in the policy of privatization. There are instances when
the Authorities are pushed into privatization prematurely and they agree merely to meet loan
conditionalities while they actually do not believe in the policy of privatization. Conversely, if the
Bank believes that the only viable option is the liquidation of a state-owned bank, it should not
settle for the second-best option which is risky, costly and not likely to work.
*   The Project was declared effective when it was clear that the capacity of the implementing agency
was limited. This was largely responsible for the excessive delays in most of the activities. More
emphasis should have been placed on implementation readiness during project appraisal. Since it
was important that the project be implemented immediately, an experienced project manager could
have been hired for the first two years of the project to give some momentum to the implementation
process while also training the local counterpart in the implementing agency.
*   The FSCBP was designed to build capacity for implementing the financial sector component of the
SERC program. However, the timing was such that the two Credits became effective within a
month of each other. There was therefore still no capacity when the SERC became effective. In
fact, because of implementation delays faced by the FSCBP, the SERC program closed just as the
implementation of most components of the FSCBP was beginning. Technical Assistance projects
supporting implementation of adjustment programs need to be launched at least two years before
the adjustment operation so that some minimum capacity is developed first.
*   There is need to be selective about projects whose management should be decentralized to the
country offices and those that should be managed from headquarters. Projects that involve
political sensitivities like the privatization of large state-owned banks should ideally be managed
from headquarters. For projects managed from country offices, there needs to be constant
communication between the field and headquarters on all issues of policy dialogue and project
implementation. Because of the spatial proximity between the task team leader (TTL) and the
Borrower, some important decisions and discussions and/or developments in the project tend not to
be documented. In this particular project, there is very little documentation in the project files on
the dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower during the process of changing the strategy from
restructuring to privatization of the state-owned banks.
*   For TA loans which have a big training component, development of a human resource master plan
should be carried out during appraisal and probably made a condition for negotiations or Board
presentation. As happened in this project, if this is delayed until the project becomes effective,
there is a danger that the Borrower will use the resources to fund ad hoc training needs which tend
to be unplanned and haphazard
*   For TA expertise to impart adequate mentoring on the local counterpart staff, short sojoums of less
- 17-



than three months in the host country are too short for any lasting impact. For TA that also
focuses on training local staff, longer stays of up to eighteen months should be recommended in
order to provide some continuity.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has prepared a contribution to the ICR which is attached in Annex 7 at the end of this report.
There is acknowledgement of the increased human resource capacity and institutional development in the
financial sector, as a result of this project. The government's contribution points out that one of the
constraints in the implementation of the project was the limited knowledge about World Bank procurement
procedures. It also points out that there were delays in disbursements by the Bank's Disbursements
Department. It then concludes that the achievements from the project need to be consolidated and
recommends a follow-on IDA credit for further development of the financial sector.
(D) Cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
a) Well trained staff of Banco de      This project predates the Log Frame era. No A total of 270 staff of BoM received training,
Mogambique, the central bank);         Log Frame was prepared for the operation;  with 17 of them attaining Masters degrees.
There were no performance indicators
tracked in the PSRs
(b) Strong capabilities in BoM in the areas                                  On-site examination and off-site surveillance
of banking supervision, statistics, research,                                of banks is currently in place; The Economic
accounting, MIS, etc;                                                        Studies department now prepares quarterly
economic bulletins and the BoM's annual
financial statements are now prepared
(c) Development of a small stock exchange                                    The Bolsa Volares is now operational and
and the development of markets in monetary                                   has six bonds and one equity listed. The
instruments such as T-Bills;                                                 auction of treasury bills has been introduced.
(d) Development of strong, and well                                          The rehabilitation of lecture rooms for the
functioning training institutes for commercial                              IFBM has been completed and furniture and
bankers and other financial institution                                      equipment procured and installed.
players;
(e) Support the Ministry of Finance in its                                   A consultant was hired and provided TA and
various roles -- particularly (but not                                      trained relevant staff of the MoF in public
exclusively) as they relate to the broadening                               investment. Vehicles, computers, office
and deepening of the financial sector;                                       equipment and furniture were also purchased
and helped improve the effectiveness of the
staff.
(f) Support the Administrative Tribunal in its                               The Tribunal now has 8 qualified
accounting and auditing function;                                            accountants (from zero previously) and has
trained its staff and those of government
departments in correct ways of presenting
government accounts for review and approval
by the Tribunal
(g) Increased soundness of the banking                                       Non-performing loans for BCM and Banco
system (level of non-performing loans)                                       Austral are around 27% and 21% of loan
assets respectively; for other banks the
average ratio of non-performing loans is less
than 10 percent of their loan assets. The
BCM and Austral financial condition created
a financial crisis in 2000.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of commercial bank staff trained at                                   150
IFBM
Number of attachments of BoM staff to                                        4
foreign central banks
Number of BoM staff completing post                                          17
graduate Studies
Frequency of printing laws by the Imprensa
Nacional
Number of senior management of BoM
trained
Average number of banks examined per year
Number of listings on the Bolsa de Volares                                   6
Number of BoM lawyers trained
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million  US$ million
Training for Central Bank Staff                      1.92           1.42           73.9
Training for Commercial Banks Staff                  1.44           0.74           51.4
Strenghtening Legal Financial Capacities             2.72           0.33           12.1
Institutional Development                            4.01           6.91          172.3
Financial Sector Studies and Project Support         0.41           0.33           80.5
Total Baseline Cost                                 10.50           9.73
Total Project Costs             10.50          9.73
Total Financing Required             10.50           9.73    ___=
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.22          0.00         0.23         0.03         0.48
(0.22)        (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.42)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         7.31         0.81         8.12
(0.00)       (0.00)        (6.88)       (0.00)      (6.88)
4. Training                  0.00          0.00         1.34         0.16         1.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.30)       (0.00)      (1.30)
5. Refinancing the PPF       0.00          0.00         0.40         0.00         0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.40)       (0.00)      (0.40)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                      0.22         0.00         9.28          1.00        10.50
(0.22)       (0.00)        (8.78)       (0.00)      (9.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB           Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.34           0.00          0.00           0.34
(0.00)         (0.34)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.34)
2. Goods                         2.44           0.00           0.00           0.01          2.45
(2.44)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.44)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           4.20           1.21          5.41
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.20)        (0.00)        (4.20)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00           1.20           0.00          1.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.20)        (0.00)        (1.20)
5. Refinancing the PPF           0.00           0.00           0.30          0.00           0.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)        (0.00)        (0.30)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         2.44           0.34           5.70           1.22          9.70
(2.44)         (0.34)         (5.70)        (0.00)         (8.48)
FiguLres in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2, Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 15, 1993                5   1 Fin. Economist, I Lawyer, I
Training expert, 2 Bankers
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 30, 1993             5   1 Fin. Economist, I Lawyer,
2 Training Experts, I Banker
Supervision
Dec. 3, 1994                 3   2 Fin. Economist,                  S             S
July 28, 1995                4   2 Fin. Economists, 1 P/D A, 1      S             S
MIS Specialist
April 30, 1996               6   1 Fin. Economist, IP/D A, 2        U             U
Payments systems, 1 Bank
Supervisor, 1 Money Markets
Expert
September 10,                2   1 Fin. Economist, 1 Bank
1996                             Supervisor,
October 25, 1997             2   1 Fin. Economist, I P/D A,         S            HS
March 13, 1998               2   1 Fin. Economist, I Fin. Analyst   S             S
Sept. 12, 1998               1   1 Fin. Economist                   S             S
February 26, 1999            2   2 Fin. Sector Spec.                S             S
September 9, 1999            2   2 Fin. Sector Spec.                S             S
February 15, 2000            1   1 Fin. Sector Spec.                S             S
June 6, 2000                 2   2 Fin. Sector Spec.
ICR
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               10.1                        29.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    13.3                        43.1
Supervision                              87.8                       303.5
ICR                                       7.1                        17.8
Total                                   118.3                       394.0
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High. SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                         * H   O SU (J M   O N  C NA
El Sector Policies                        O H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
L Physical                                O H   O SU O M   ON    * NA
O Financial                               O H   OSUOM      ON    O NA
O Institutional Development               O H   0 SU 0 M   '- N  0 NA
O Environmental                           0 H   C SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                C H   0 SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
El Gender                          O H     ) SU  M   C N   * NA
El Other (Please specifv)          O H   O SU U M    O N   * NA
O Private sector development              0 H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 0 H   0 SU O M   0 N   01 NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
[] Lending                                         OHS *S       OU     0O  U
L Supervision                                      OHS OS       * U    O HU
O Overall                                          OHS Os       * U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    3 HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     * U    0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       * U    O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Development Credit Agreement
Staff Appraisal Report
Aide-memoire and Back-to-Office Reports
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
- 26 -



Borrower's Contribution to the Project Implementation Report for the
Financial Sector Capacity Building Project
(Credit No. 2607-MOZ)
Introduction
Within the framework of the economic reforms initiated in 1987, an area that
was considered to be of vital importance for the development of the country
is the financial sector.
In order to strengthen this sector, the implementation of a Technical
Assistance Project in the Ministry of Planning and Finance and at Bank of
Mozambique (Cr. 2066-MOZ) was started in 1989, to provide a new look to
it, both through capacity building and, particularly, through moves leading to
the privatisation of some commercial banks.
However, the duration of the Credit 2066 - MOZ was not long enough to
enable the conclusion of all the activities that were part of the ongoing
reform programme.
In view of the need to ensure the continuity of the activities that have been
started by the credit referred to abo've, Credit 2607 - MOZ Financial Sector
Capacity Building "FSCB" was designed.
The Credit, its Objectives and Components
The Project FSCB was launched in March 1994 with the objective of further
creating the conditions for the strengthening of the financial sector not just
in the areas that had already been initiated, but also in new areas that were
considered to be relevant.
Thus, as a whole the Project FSCB covered the following components:



1. MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND FINANCE
1.1 Unidade T&nica de Coordenasao de Projectos (UTCP)
This component is co-ordinated by the Ministry of Planning and Finance and
was aimed at its capacity building. An agreement has been signed with
CESO/SODETEG, a consultancy firm, to provide technical assistance on
issues related to public investment to the National Directorate of Budget.
Indeed, a consultancy contract with consortium CESO/SODETEG was
established under which a sum of USD 683.350 were used for payment of
technical assistance services, properly so called in addition to the sum of
USD 103 500 for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and furniture to make
the Unit more functional, and thereby enable it to meet the envisaged
objectives.
In the context of this contract, efforts were concentrated in the support to the
implementation of Budgetary Reform and Assistance to current activities of
National Directorate of Planning and Budget, specially the following:
In the framework of Budgetary Reform
- Development of an information system and corresponding computer
application for preparation of State Budget (area of current budget,
complementing a previous work done in the area of Investment Budget).
This system allows to get an integral outlook of public expenses written
in the State Budget, as well as it registers all details used for its
programming. It allows to quickly retrieve all aggregates for the
dimensions established in the Law of Budget Framing and supply
digitised information to other internal sectors of MPF, namely Public
Accountancy and Treasury.
- Later extension of the system to incorporate and manage budgetary
changes during the year, keeping, in this way, the budget itself
permanently updated.
- Supervision of the study of off Budget in 4 sectors and 2 provinces.
- Technical Support and Assistance of the set BAD projects.
2



- Technical Support and Assistance to studies on autonomous institutions.
In the framework of medium-term Public Expenses Programming
- Establishment of Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario (expenses side), namely
in the conception of this instrument applied Mozambican reality,
development of methodological instruments.
- Elaboration of MTFS for the period of 2000-2004.
In the framework of public expenses programming
- Technical support and to the elaboration of Public Investment Triennial
Plan for the years 98, 99 and 2000.
- Technical support and assistance to the elaboration of the State Budget
for the years 98, 99 and 2000.
In the framework of public expenses programming
- Technical support and assistance to the elaboration of opinions under
request of technicians from Budget and Macroeconomics Programming
Departments.
- On job training of counterpart technicians during the execution of the
above activities.
Collaboration with other Projects
Close  collaboration  with  United  Nations  Project of Planning
Reinforcement, in the framework of public investment planning, foreign
support and other local and provincial institutions.
- Collaboration witlh GTZ Germany project of support to decentralised
planning, at central level and in the Province of Manica.
3



- Collaboration with the Project to support MPF Studies Office (Project of
Oxford University), namely in the framework of Medium-Term Fiscal
Scenario.
In the context of this contract the sum of USD 683 350 was used to pay for
the technical assistance services, in addition to the sum of USD 103 500
used for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and furniture to make the Unit
more functional and thereby enable it to meet the envisaged objectives.
Actually, the hiring of the consultants has contributed to the consolidation of
the existing knowledge in the sector about budget preparation and on issues
related to public investment.
1.2 Departamento de Cooperaaio Internacional
Considering the nature of its activities, this department has been establishing
contacts with various entities, including international bodies and institutions,
and consequently it required adequate premises, furniture and other
equipment so as to fulfil its mission.
The funding provided for this project was precisely to overcome the
difficulties in this domain, and in this connection, the sum of USD 26 000
was used for the acquisition of furniture, computers and other office
equipment.
As a result of this funding, the sector has improved its conditions in the
following manner:
- Better working conditions for the staff affected to the sector;
- Better preparation of the documents thanks to the existing of adequate
computer equipment:
- Expeditious sending of documents and correspondence thanks to fax
machine installed.
4



1.3 Comissao Instaladora da Bolsa de Valores
The Commission for the Installation of the Stock Exchange was set up in
order to prepare the creation of the Mozambique Stock Exchange. In order to
fulfil this objective various activities have been carried out, including the
contracting of technical assistance and the purchasing of vehicles, equipment
and furniture; advertising, translation and training programmes as well as the
payment of rent and salaries. These activities absorbed the total amount of
USD 832 000.
As a result of all these activities, the Stock Exchange was formally created
and it has already started concrete actions and in this regard there have been
some significant advances towards the market expansion. In fact, as per the
evidence below, the market has gained an impetus during the last three
months, after a period of relative stagnation.
There were two new corporate bond issues from BIM and BSTM, adding up
the aggregate traded papers to four.
There are three other issues in process, and as per the scheduile, by the year-
end the exchange will account with seven issues.
I would remind you that these issues are particularly surprising from the
regional standpoint. In fact looking at the regional stock markets, excluding
the Johannesburg one, the Mozambican is showing a sound development of
bond market.
Although it can be argued the lack of a much more dynamic share market,
even with such a widespread privatisation process, in fact this is one of the
bottlenecks most emerging markets are facing, particularly in Sub-Saharan
region, that is the reluctance of the potential issuers to join the market.
Reasons are various, but the paramount one I consider is related to the nature
of the stock market concept, which remains new and less clear.
However, as per the Bolsa programme, they already have secured the listing
of Cervejas and Maragra, for the first quarter 2001, which will launch the
otlher side of the market: the slhares trading.
Therefore, considering the amoLunt allocated to this component, I consider it
accomplished the very basic goal. That is to set-up the market, to bring in
5



the business into account of the new financial instruments available for their
medium and long term financing
1.4 Master Degree Course in Economics - University of London
The FSCB Project continued to finance training courses initiated by Credit
2066/M0Z, and for this USD 80 000.00 were disbursed.
These courses, thought in Maputo and Beira cities, comprised Diploma and
Master levels, and are intended for technicians from Public Administration
and public institutions and enterprises, and ended with graduation of more
than 45 State senior staff.
The establishment of Post-Graduation courses through the distance learning
programme had a positive impact, since it was a unique opportunity for the
staff to upgrade their knowledge without leaving their professional activities.
This can be proved by the application of potential candidates from different
national walks of life.
The project contributed to improve the understanding of financial economics
by the government of Mozambique, a country managed a planned economy
up to the beginning of 1990's.
On the other hand, the increase of international integration demands reforms
to an market economy supported by the World Bank and International
Monetary Fund. In this context, there was a clear need to organise a training
programme on economics for Minister and State senior technicians, but not
only.
The Ministry decided to extend this training to encompass economists from
other Ministries, Institutions and companies.
2. MINISTRY OF STATE ADMINISTRATION
2.1 Imprensa Nacional
One of the main constraints in the publishing of Laws is caused by to the
lack of conditions in terms of printing equipment. As there was no objection
6



to addressing this issue, an Offset machine has been purchased at the cost of
USD 384 000. As it will come into operation shortly, the current delays in
the printing and publication of legislation will be eliminated and the quality
will be enhanced significantly.
3. TRIBUNAL ADMINISTRATIVO
During the mission of the Project Monitoring of April 1998, the
Administrative Tribunal considered as priority areas for its capacity building
the dissemination of laws, training and refresher courses for its staff as well
as the purchase of books and publications, office furniture and equipment,
including computers.
Some of the activities carried out towards the materialisation of this
objective include the following:
- Holding of three seminars for the dissemination of laws, in the
Southern, Central and Northern parts of Mozambique, in which 90
civil servants took part;
- About 8 professionals attended a higher course on Auditing and
Accountancy;
- Training of 3 controllers so that to introduce improvements in the
process of verification of public institutions accounts.
- Senior staff from the tribunal paid work visits and attended seminars
and exchanged experiences with regional bodies and institutions,
namely CPLP, SADC etc.
- Purchase of vehicles and other equipment.
The cost for the purchase of vehicles and equipment was USD 384 000 and a
total of USD 234 000 was spent on training and on the dissemination of the
laws.
The Administrative Tribunal undertakes its activities in three major areas,
namely (i) resolution of conflicts between civil service and citizens; (ii)
resolution of fiscal conflicts; and (iii) review of administrative contracts and
7



the accounts of Government entities, public companies, associations and
NGOs.
Its mandate is clear cut. It is an autonomous institution.
By focusing on the training of its staff, the Tribunal seeks to implement
successfully and strictly all its attributions.
As it started to intervene in each of the areas referred to above a new climate
is emerging in terms of organisation, discipline and accountability on the
part of all the staff.
It goes without saying that all this will lead to the capacity building of this
institution and, above all, it will also promote the capacity building of the
financial sector as a whole.
4. BANCO DE MOCAMBIQUE
4.1 Training
One important area that has received funding under this project was
undoubtedly training. In the specific case of the Bank of Mozambique, the
training focused on the following areas:
Masters Degree Course at the University of London - The funding of this
training programme under the project has expired . It training 15 people of
which 1 I are affected to the financial system and the others work for other
Ministries.
Masters Degree Course for Lawyers - It is intended to train 9 lawyers and
as the project will close before the end of the training period, BM will have
to secure funds to ensure the conclusion of the training programme.
Masters Degree Course on Information Systems - A total of 6 technicians
have been trained and they have all been assigned to work at the Department
of Organisation and Informatics.
Training in the English Language (17 technicians) workshops and upgrade
training programmes abroad.
8



The training of the staff in each of the areas mentioned above is obviously
aimed at improving the performance of such staff and consequently this will
impact on the quality of the service provided by the sectors in which they
work.
In this perspective, this is undoubtedly a valuable contribution made by the
project to strengthen the financial sector - the core objective for which the
project was designed.
4.2 Departamento de Supervisio Bancaria (DSB)
One of the most important tasks undertaken by the Department of Banking
Supervision was the monitoring of the process of privatisation of BCM and
BPD.
As there was not either the experience nor the capacity to this work
internally, external services have been sought. More specifically from
Deloite, from Banco Pinto Sotto Mayor and from Banco Portugues de
Investimento, and this absorbed a sum of the tune of USD 2 632 936.
This task was successfully completed as both BCM and BPD have already
been privatised. This has given a new impetus both in qualitative and
quantitative terms to the financial sector in Mozambique.
Additionally about USD 140 000 have been used for restructuring and
capacity building of the DSB in terms of the supervision of the financial
activities at large. For this consultancy was provided by Intersoft and by
some independent consultants. There have also been exchanges with SARB
and it was necessary to acquire computer equipment for this Department.
These activities have contributed greatly for the capacity building of the
DSB for a more effective supervision of the financial institutions in
Mozambique, and Bank of Mozambique is committed to the consolidation
and improvement of its capacity to intervene in this sector.
9



4.3 Centro de Organizasao e Informatica
This component contemplated the funding for the refurbishment of the
premises where the future centre will be located. Although delayed, a
process is underway for the purchase of the respective furniture.
Other activities funded by the project include the purchase of books and
publications and the hiring of technical assistance.
Bank of Mozambique wants to have a Documentation and Information
Centre that is in line with its level of growth and so all actions are directed at
this objective.
After the conclusion of the work, it will be possible to improve the
assistance provided to other sectors of the Bank not just in terms of making
information available, but also in terms of the organisation of an appropriate
filing system.
4.4 Departamento de Organizacao e Informatica
The computerisation process of Bank of Mozambique was initiated by Cr.
2066 - Moz. This process was continued by Project FSCB and it has
basically consisted of activities that had been agreed upon with SIEMENS,
in the area of automation of the services of various Departments , the
creation of Database, the Management of Networks etc. Additionally,
funding was also provided for the activities undertaken by the Bank to
minimise the impact of the Y2K problem, namely the replacement of some
hardware and introduction of adequate software.
These activities costed USD 722 500. The activities funded by this project
have virtually been concluded and there is now internal capacity for the
maintenance of all the computer equipment purchased as well as for the
Management and Development of the respective software.
4.5 Instituto de Forma$ao Bancaria
The training of staff for the financial sector is vital for the strengthening of
the system. In view of the need to create conditions for the attainment of this
10



objective, funding totalling USD 678 000 has been provided for the
following:
Rehabilitation of the premises, training, purchasing of equipment and
furniture - The works are almost concluded and both the equipment and the
furniture have been acquired and installed. Consequently, the IFB is in a
better position to carry out its activities i.e. the training of bank staff in areas
related to their activities
Various technical courses have been provided with the coordination of the
Institute of Banking Training from Portugal. A total of 150 employees from
Bank of Mozambique and from Commercial Banks have attended the
courses
The activities under this component were directed at two major areas:
- Training. Here the objectiv'e was to build a consistent technical
capacity capable of responding to the present day requirements of the
financial market.
- Rehabilitation of premises. The objective here was to create more
space and equip it so as to create an appropriate environment for the
staff undergoing training. In actual fact, the number of class rooms of
the Institute went up from 3 to 6.
5. CREDICOOP
Funding was provided to hire and advisor for this institution. After USD 121
000 had been spent, this funding was withdrawn and allocated to other
components due to the inobservance of the rules that govern the use of funds
allocated by the World Bank.
6 CONSTRAINTS
In the course of the implementation of the project the following constraints
were found:
Regarding the components:
- poor knowledge about the procedures of the Worl,d Bank



- delays in the implementation of the activities planned motivated by
the lack of a more active and dynamic attitude.
Regarding the World Bank:
- Delays in the disbursements by the Departmnent of Disbursement in
Washington.
Regarding the Coordination of the Project:
- At times it was noticed that a proactive action was lacking on the
components that revealed slow in the implementation of their activities.
Lessons Learned/Conclusions
The Project FSCB in terms of the volume of resources involved was
relatively small, however the results it has produced are very relevant.
The outputs achieved with this Project are very visible and are reflected in a
concrete manner in the financial system.
Training was a major focus of this project and this makes us believe that in
the near future the results will be tangible.
The project has produced results with noticeable sustainability: e.g.
investment in training, expected revenues from the Stock Exchange and the
operation of the offset machine.
CONCLUSION
Resources have been invested for the materialisation of activities
contemplated in the project, particularly with regard to training.
We believe that a considerable part of this activities need not just to be
complemented but also they need to be consolidated. Therefore, we feel that
the design of another project for this area or for a similar one is worth
considering.
12



FINANCIAL SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Summary of Expenses and Analysis of Budget
Period:   Up to September 2000
Financier: IDA Credit 2607-MOZ
Currency: USD
DATA                                                                          Actual Value                                         Budgeted Value                 Available      Rate of Budget
Until 1977                After 1997                    Total          Current Year up     Accumulated         Budget             Use
Previous Years    Current Year       Accumulated           to 2000             total
(1)              (2)              (3)           (4= I + 2 + 3)           (5)           (6 = I + 2 + 5)    (7 = 6 - 4)          (8)
1. Ministry of Planning and Finance                    123,303.43      1,411,806.87       326,064.52        1,861,174.82         741,079.60      2,276,189.90       415,015.08            81.8%
1.1  Project Coordination Unit (UTCP)                                   800,129.15        -13,236.00         786,893.15          338,967.65       1,139,096.80      352,203.65             69%
1.2  Department of International Cooperation                             25,243.75                            25,243.75                0.00         25,243.75             0.00           100.0%
1.3  Commission for Establishing Stock Exchange        123,303.43       493,684.52        214,156.00          832,143.95         243,041.33        861,029.28         28,885.53           96.6%
1.4  Training                                                               817.04                               817.04                0.00           817.04              0.00           100.0%
1.5  Economic Analysis (Treasury Dept.)                                  90,932.41        125,144.52         216,076.93          159,070.62        250,003.03        33,926.10            86.4%
2. Bank of Mozambique                                  487,994.70      1,253,672.91       502,752.06        2,244,419.67        1,076,327.01      2,817,994.62       573,574.95           79.6%
2.1  Project Management                                204,518.00        113,146.00        15,000.00          332,664.00           53,706.00       371,370.00         38,706.00           89.6%
2.2  Documentation Center                                                68,712.55         58,174.45          126,887.00          705.913.14       774,625.69        647,738.69           16.4%
2.3  Training                                          159,551.48       396,726.07        330,689.48          886,967.03          253,305.16       809,582.71        -77,384.32          109.6%
2.4  Informatics                                                        623,607.19         98,888.13          722,495.32           63,402.71       687,009.90        -35,485.42          105.2%
2.5  Banking Supervision and Legal Matters             123,925.22        51,481.10                            175,406.32               0.00        175,406.32             0.00           100.0%
3. Other Institutions                                  467,086.36       599,204.33        705,876.18        1,772,166.86          848,392.86      1,914,683.55       142,516.68           92.6%
3.1  CreditCoop                                          82,00.00        39,000.00                             121,00.00               0.00        121,000.00             0.00           100.0%
3.2  Administrative Tribunal                                            551,038.18         65,757.83          616,796.01          107,559.01       658,597.19         41,801.18           93.7%
3.3  Bankers' Training Institute (IFBM)                385,086.36         9,166.15        256,395.67          650,648.18          340,833.85       735,086.36         84,438.18           88.5%
3.4  National Printery (impressa National)                                    0.00        383,722.68          383,722.68          400,000.00       400,000.00         16,227.32           95.9%
3.5  Seminars and Workshops                                 0.00              0.00                                 0,00                0.00              0.00             0.00
10. Others to classify (Before 1998)                 3,447,532.48             0.00             0.00         3,447,532.48               0.00       3,447,532.48            0.00           100.0%
10.1 Constant Values from Report of                   4,525,916.97            0.00             0.00         4,525,916.97               0.00       4,525,916.97            0.00           100.0%
12/31/97
10.2 Recasting Made in following years               -1,078,384,49            0.00             0.00         -1,078,384.49              0.00      -1,078,384.49            0.00           100.0%
Grand Total                         4,525,916.97     3,264,684.11      1,534,692.76        9,325,293.84        2,665,799.47    10,456,400.55      1,131,106.71          89.2%



Original     1    Balance in       Conversation  I Balance in USD
Analysis of Budget                                                 Currency        Original Currency       Rate
I - Total Available Budget                                                                                     SDR          806,447.07             1.33      1,070,292.36
I .  Balance of IDA Credit account                                                                        SD               ,                  1.33           0.36
2.   Disbursement Requests pending                                                                      CHEF                 0.00             0.62             0.00
3.   Balance of Swedish account                                                                           USD           -     .37             0.62        -     .37
4.   Balance of Special Account A                                                                         USD           -14,765.37             1.00       -14,765.37
5.   Balance of Special Account B                                                                         USD                0.00             1.00             0.00
II.- Available funds not allocated (1-7)                           (a)                                                                                        -75,579.72
(a)     Excess of uses over sources of funds



FINANCIAL SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Period: Up to September 2000
TOTAL             TOTAL            BALANCE           PERCENT-                                               5 - STATUS OF AGREED ACTIONS FOR EACH COMPONENT
ALLOCATED           AMOUNT                OR              AGE OF
AMOUNT              USED             DEFICIT           BUDGET
USED          Consultants      Vehicles        Other         Furniture         Books          Rehabilitation       Masters          Masters         Other
Equiposent         and             and                of              Degree           Degree         Training
DESCRIPTION OF                                                                                                                                        Supplies       Publications        Facilities        Courses          Courses          Tasks
COMPONENTS BY SECTOR                                                                                                                                                                                           (Economist)      (Lawyers)
.(1)                         L.(2)        (3)               (4)              (5)             (6)            (7)            (S)              (9)              (10)               (1 1)            (12)           (13)
t. Ministry of Pkanning and Finance     2,276,189.90      1,861,174.s2        415,015.0S            81,8%
1.1   Project Coordination Unit         1,139,096 as        786,893 t5        352,203 65            69.t% 1Concluded
(UTCP)                                                                                                 Ongoing         Concluded      Concluded
1.2   Department of Intemational           25,243.75         25,243 75             0.00            100.0%
Cooperation                                                                                                                           Concluded      Concluded
1.3   Commission for Establishing         861,029.28        832,143.95         28,8s5.33            96.6%
Stock Exchange                                                                                         Concluded       Concluded      Concluded      Concluded                                           Concluded                         Ongoing
1.4   Training                               917.04            al7.04               0.00           too.o0r/
1.5   Economic Analysis (Treassey         250,003.03        216,076 93         33,926.10            96.4%
Dept.)                                                                                                 Concluded                      Concluded      Concluded                                                                             Concluded
2 Bank ofMoz,ambique                    6,265,527.10       5,691,952.15       573,974.95            90.8%
2.1   Project Management                  371,370 0o        332,664 00         38,706.00            89.6%    Concluded       Concluded      Concluded
2 2   Documentation Center                774,625 69        126,887 00        647,739.69             164%    On oing                                       Ongoing        Concluded
2.3   Training                            809,5a2.71        886,967.03        -77,384.32            109.6%      G                                                                            Ongoing
2.4   Informatics                         687,009.90        722,495.32         -35,485 42           105 2%   CoIud d                                                                                           Ongoing           Ongoing         Concluded
2.5   Bank Superv. cod Legal Matters      175,406 32        175,406.32              0 oIoo%                    onclude                      Concluded                                                                                            Concluded
2.6   Othor Actions                     3,447,532.48      3,447,532.48              0 oo            loo 01/.  Concuded                      Concluded      Concluded                                                                             Concluded
Concluded                      Concluded                                                                                           Concluded
3 Other Institutions                    1,914,683.55       1,772,166.47       142,516.68            92.6%
3 1   CreditCoop                          121,000.00        121,00000               000              100%    Concluded
3 2   Administrative Tribunal             65a,597 19        616,796.01         41,801 19             93.7%                   Concluded                     Concluded
33    Bankers Training Institute          735,086 36        650,641 It         94,439.10             905%                                   Ongoing        Ongoing                                                                               Ongoing
(IfBM)                                                                                                                                Ongoing                                          Concluded                                           Ongoing
3 4   National Printery (lmyressa         400,000 00        383,722 68          16,277.32            9t 9%
National)                                                                                                              Concltided
Grand Total                 10,456,400.55      9,325,293.84      1,131,106.71            89.2fi



