Report No. PIC885
Project Name   Mozambique-Financial Sector Capacity Building Credit
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Economic Policy and Development
Project ID                MZPA1811
Project Cost              US$10 million
Financing Plan            US$9.0 million -- IDA
US$1.0 million -- Govts of Switzerland and
United Kingdom
Appraisal Date            November 1993
Projected Board Date      March 1994
Background
1.   In 1987, the Government of Mozambique embarked on an economic
rehabilitation program which sought to guide the economy through a
transitional period from socialism to a market economy, and onto a
steady growth path during the 1990s. Significant reform has already
taken place, however, substantial additional reforms are still required.
The signing of a peace accord between the Government and Renamo in 1992,
should it result in the permanent cessation of hostilities, will place
the Mozambique economy in a good position to achieve substantial growth
throughout the remainder of the decade. The financial sector has been
identified as a key constraint to further growth in the economy.
Payment systems have largely broken down, banking services are limited
and inefficiently provided, and financial innovation in terms of
institutions and instruments has been virtually non-existent. Recent
financial sector deregulation has led to the entry of two new private
sector banking institutions -- which now means that three of the five
commercial banks are privately owned. This bodes well for the
development of the sector, the growth of competition, development of
services and innovative financial instruments. However, the majority of
the staff working in the financial sector have very limited amounts of
formal education, and their training has mainly been acquired in a
period when the banking system operated under the Government plan rather
than in a free market environment. There is, therefore, a pressing need
to train banking staff to adapt so that they can undertake banking
business in a deregulated environment. It is also important to train
policy makers to conduct macro-monetary policy management in a
liberalized setting.
Objectives
2.   The Finance Sector Capacity Building Credit (FS CB) would support
the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit in achieving
desired policy and institutional reforms. The two main objectives of
the credit would be to support: (a) TRAINING in three key areas (i) the
main focus would be on CENTRAL BANK TRAINING, (ii) but assistance would also
be provided in key areas of COMMERCIAL BANK TRAINING, including limited
support for training in the insurance sector and in securities markets,



and (iii) support would be specifically provided for LEGAL TRAINING; and
(b) INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING to support the overall program of financial
sector reform, with a strong training element attached to this, mostly
short term, technical assistance.
Description
3. The total credit of US$9.0 million will be divided into five
components. The first will consist of central bank training in key
areas -- but particularly in the areas of macro monetary management,
banking supervision, exchange control, and accounting/auditing; the
second will consist of commercial bank training, including some support
for the Banker's Training College at Matola (8 kilometers outside of
Maputo); the third is a program of legal training for staff in the
central bank and the Ministry of Finance to assist them up-grade and
develop laws in support of the financial sector reform program; the
fourth is institution building, mainly via the provision of short term
technical assistance in key areas; and the last is a small component of
funding for studies.
Environmental Aspects
4. The project will have no environmental impact. The proposed
environmental assessment category is C.
Implementation
5. The central bank -- Banco de Mozambique has the primary
responsibility for this operation. The project coordinator is the Head
of the Human Resources Department of the central bank. The five sub-
components also have coordinators -- all located in the central bank.
Institutional Capacity
6. The central bank is one of the best Government institutions in terms
of institutional capacity. Staff are relatively well trained and
educated, and most have a long history of work with the central bank.
Nonetheless, support will still be required in critical areas of policy
formulation and implementation. Support is being provided by donors,
both bilateral and multilateral. Close coordination has been maintained
between the donors to ensure that full cooperation/coordination is
maintained between institutions/donors supporting this sector.
Benefits and Risks
7. A major risk for the overall adjustment operation is a lack of
sufficiently trained manpower. The current support program will
therefore attempt to address this constraint. Importantly, the
Mozambican Government and Banco de Mozambique place a high priority on
training Mozambican staff. This should ensure strong support for the
program. Another risk is that it may prove difficult and time consuming
to recruit adequately qualified, Portuguese speaking technical experts
in key fields, which are acceptable to the Government. Nonetheless,
every effort will be made to ensure that well qualified individuals are
placed in key positions as quickly as possible. To address this issue,
- 2 -



work on recruiting several key consultants has already commenced and
will be financed under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.
This advance work should help in addressing some of the anticipated
delays in this area.
8. An important justification is that, with the advent of the peace
accord, Mozambique is well placed to rejuvenate economic activity and
launch into a period of strong growth. Reform of the financial sector
is extremely important to service the needs of the sectors which will
now be able to perform productively in a peaceful environment.
Contact Point        Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-3-



