                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 24703-KO




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (CPL-37930)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                                        FOR A

           PORTS DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                      April 28, 2004




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective July 24, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Won
                                 Won 1.00 = US$ 0.00081
                                 US$ 1.00 = W1,212

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     =     Country Assistance Strategy
EIRR    =     Economic Internal Rate of Return
GEF     =     Global Environment Facility
KCTA    =     Korea Container Terminal Authority
KMI     =     Korea Maritime Institute
KMPA    =     Korea Maritime and Port Administration
KMPRC   =     Korea Marine Pollution Control Response Corporation
MARPOL  =     International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
MOFE    =     Ministry of Finance and Economy
MOMAF   =     Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries
ODCY    =     Off-Dock Container Yards
QAG     =     Quality Assurance Group
QSA     =     Quality of Supervision Assessment
ROK     =     Republic of Korea
rt      =     revenue tons
SAR     =     Staff Appraisal Report
SWDF    =     Ship Waste Disposal Facility
TA      =     Technical Assistance
TEU     =     Twenty-foot Equivalent Units
TOC     =     Terminal Operating Companies
VTMS    =     Vessel Traffic Management System




                            Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
               Country Manager/Director:       Mr. Jeffrey Gutman
                Sector Manager/Director:       Mr. Jitendra N. Bajpai
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Mr. Shomik Raj Mehndiratta

                                      REPUBLIC OF KOREA
         PORTS DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
    6. Sustainability                                                                13
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
    9. Partner Comments                                                              17
    10. Additional Information
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Map I. Ports Development and Environment (IBRD 29197R)
Map II. Busan Phase IV Container Terminal (IBRD 25593R)
Map III. Gwangyang Port. Plan by Phase (IBRD 29198R)

Project ID: P004173                                                  Project Name: KR-Ports Dev & Environment
Team Leader: Shomik Raj Mehndiratta                                  TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: KR-Ports Dev & Environment                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-37930
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                  Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (92%); General water, sanitation and
                            flood protection sector (6%); Central government administration
                            (2%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Pollution management
                            and environmental health (P); Biodiversity (S); Water resource
                            management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/07/1992                                     Effective: 03/03/1995
     Appraisal: 04/20/1994                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/15/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Korea/Korea Container Terminal Authority; Ministry of Maritime
                                           Affairs and Fisheries
                      Other Partners:      Ministry of Finance and Economy, Korea Maritime and Port Administration
                                           (while it existed)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Calisto Madavo
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Shomik Mehndiratta                             Lance Morrell
ICR Primary Author:             Jacques Yenny; Shomik
                                Mehndiratta; Hank Yen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
QAG did not exist when the project was approved by the Board in FY95.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background. By the late 1980s, Korea had developed an impressive multi-modal transport network
capable of supporting its phenomenal economic growth. Though investment in additional port
infrastructure remained important, by this time environmental concerns had also become a priority. Indeed,
one of the objectives of the Government's plan for the port sector in a 1993 plan (the New Economic Five
Year Plan) was to 'give priority to addressing marine, coastal and urban environmental issues...'. The Bank
endorsed and strongly supported Government of Korea (GOK) environmental objectives in the sector.

It was against this backdrop that GOK requested the Ports Development and Environmental Improvement
Project in 1992. The primary objectives of the project were: (a) to help address the major environmental
concerns in Korean maritime transport; (b) to reduce the level of noise, air pollution and traffic congestion
in the City of Busan (then Pusan); and (c) to strengthen the Korea Maritime and Port Administration's
capacity to deal with environmental issues during port development and operation.

Assessment of Objectives. The project's objectives were clear and realistic, and given Korea's
institutional capacity in port management, the project was not overly complex or demanding. Strategically,
the project extended support to the welcome development of increased institutional awareness of
environmental considerations in the maritime sector. The project was in full alignment with and
specifically mentioned in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in December
1993. The Bank's involvement was a natural progression of its past contributions to Korea's port system
and met the goal of ensuring that further development of transport infrastructure would incorporate
environmental considerations, institutional reforms and new technologies. Through the project, the Bank
supported Korea in addressing environmental issues in port and harbor development, in particular, in
complying with the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) (see
para. 2.9 of the Staff Appraisal Report for details), providing greater traffic safety, and monitoring the
ecosystem in the Yellow Sea.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was to provide comprehensive support to environmental issues in port and harbor development
through the following components:

(a)      Ship Waste Disposal Facilities (US$14,690,000), to finance the construction of facilities for the
collection, storage, treatment and disposal of liquid wastes, garbage and sewage from ships;

(b)      Construction of the Port of Dadaepo (US$505,710,000), to finance a nine-berth port complex
with 940m of linear wharves at Dadaepo for the handling of timber and marine products and other cargo;

(c)      Vessell Traffic Management Systems (US$25,180,000), to finance the development and
installation of a traffic management system to monitor, regulate and control vessel movements at Busan and
Inchon/Asan in order to improve safety and provide better control and coordination;

(d)      Development of Container Terminal in Busan (US$557,700,000), to finance procurement of
quay side container cranes at the four berths of Phase IV of the Busan Container Terminal (the berths were
constructed using local funds); and



                                                      - 2 -

(e)       Technical Assistance and Training (US$3,680,000). This component included the following:

    (i) Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem Study, which included the establishment of a comprehensive
    program for marine monitoring and assessment, and which put in place a program to monitor pollution,
    ecosystem productivity, biodiversity and changes in yields of living marine resources;

    (ii) Ship Waste Disposal Facilities, which was to provide technical assistance to formulate and
    evaluate investment options, policies and strategies, relating to the collection, storage, treatment and
    disposal of ship waste;

    (iii) Environmental Training, was to provide training, both locally and abroad, to enhance the
    knowledge of KMPA staff on environmental aspects of port development, construction, and operations;

    (iv) Operational and Technical Training, which was to provide some 50 man-months of professional
    training to further develop the engineering and operational staff of Korea Maritime and Port
    Administration (KMPA); and

    (v) Institutional Development, financed from counterpart funds, was to provide further opportunities
    to improve port management and operations.

Assessment of Project Design. In general, project design was appropriately linked to objectives,
particularly the strategic objective of supporting GOK's interest in including environmental considerations
systematically in the port and maritime sector. For the most, the components were well suited to the
administrative and financial capacities of the two implementing agencies, the KMPA and Korea Container
Terminal Authority (KCTA). The lessons from previous Bank port operations in Korea were recognized
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) (chapter 1, section D) and were sufficiently well incorporated into
this project.

However, when greater governance autonomy was granted to municipalities, such as Busan, the Dadaepo
Port Construction ran into stiff local opposition from residents concerned about the impact of the proposed
new port on their property values. The Government and the Bank had to abandon the Dadaepo component
and restructure the project. In fact the economic analysis presented in the SAR recognized the losses to
residential land values in the proposed new port area. They were estimated at a non-negligible amount of
Won 109 billion (US$136 million at the prevailing exchange rate). Since expected benefits more than
compensated for this loss and provided for a 36% rate of return for this component, the project went ahead.

3.4 Revised Components:
During the early phases of project implementation, it became increasingly clear that there was resistance to
the Dadaepo Port component from residents living near the proposed port site. After the first local
elections in Korean history, the new Busan City Government decided in April 1995 not to modify the
zoning of the areas needed to develop the port. Despite the efforts of the national government (and the
Bank) to address local concerns, the component was cancelled before implementation could begin. The
project scope was thus reduced by over US$500 million, bringing Loan savings of US$52 million. In May
1997, the Bank agreed to reallocate US$5 million to additional training for Government staff in
environmental and economic policy, and the Loan Agreement was amended accordingly.




                                                     - 3 -

Discussions continued on whether to cancel the remaining US$47 million or restructure the project. As the
Asian financial crisis started affecting Korea in 1997, the Government requested the Bank to consider
supporting further development in Gwangyang Port. The port, 160 km southwest of Busan, was being
developed as Korea's second largest container port to relieve traffic growth in Busan. The Bank agreed to
restructure the project and use the remaining US$47 million to help finance: (a) the Phase II development of
Gwangyang Port (US$46.25 million); (b) two studies, one on port pricing and the other to improve Korea's
maritime environmental management (US$0.6 million); and (c) operations training for KCTA staff
(US$0.15 million). The Board approved the restructuring on March 10, 1998 and the Loan Agreement
was amended on April 13, 1998. The Loan closing date was extended two years to December 31, 2002,
and the Loan amount was reduced to US$96,925,000 after cancellation of US$3,075,000 on March 10,
1998. In 2002 the training component of the project was further extended by 12 months to accommodate
ongoing training of MOFE staff. The project is expected to close in December 2003 as per the current
schedule.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of the project at entry is rated as satisfactory with some caveats on public participation and
port traffic forecasts as described later in this section. The project was (a) consistent with the CAS and
former Bank activities in the port sector, as already mentioned in Section 3.1; and (b) supportive of the
government's core objectives for the port sector and of its general transport objectives. In general, the
focus of this project was on environmental issues, and was consistent with the heightened profile of such
issues in Korea, particularly regarding its maritime environment.

The project coincided with country priorities for the transport sector, outlined in (a) the Seventh Plan
(1992-1996), and the (b) New Economic Plan (1993-1997). The plan included investments in new port
facilities in Busan, Gwangyang Bay, and Incheon as well as at several secondary ports. In particular, this
project was very consistent with the objectives for the port sector laid out in the New Economic Five-Year
Plan:

(a) Maintain an annual growth rate of 8.4% in freight handling capacity aimed at reaching an overall
freight handling capacity of 356 million revenue ton (rt) by 1996 and 512 million rt by 2001;

(b) Plan port investment with a view to developing key ports to stimulate balanced regional development
with an emphasis on Korea's west coast in preparation for expanding trade around the Yellow Sea rim and
passenger traffic with China, and eventually North Korea;

(c) Increase private sector financing for constructing new ports, greater specialization of port functions
and for optimizing the utilization of existing facilities;

(d) Adopt an integrated approach linking port development with improving inland transport systems and
urban development in the context of overall national priorities to link up key population centers; and

(e) Give priority to addressing marine, coastal and urban environmental issues by collecting ship waste,
expanding pollution control facilities at harbors and surrounding built-up areas, improving port operations
and enforcing regulations.

The level of public participation/local ownership in the design of the Dadaepo component of the project is
not clearly documented. It would seem that, during project preparation, attention was primarily focused on
the resettlement required at the immediate Dadaepo port site, but consideration was not extended to include
the impact on apartment residents who would be indirectly affected by having the future port and industrial



                                                        - 4 -

area in their backyards. The resettlement section of the project SAR (para. 3.25) deals with the
resettlement required at the Dadaepo site (three houses which also serve as beach restaurants, eight vacant
lots, three aquaculture farms, and an additional twenty-five shops/buildings). The cost of the direct
resettlement was estimated to be relatively small (Won 15 billion, or US$19 million), and the Bank task
team had specifically negotiated assurances regarding consultations with indirectly affected people during
the project preparation.

The economic analysis in the SAR (4.12) notes (regarding the Dadaepo site) that 'Residential land values in
the surrounding area in particular, will be negatively impacted, with a resultant decrease in total economic
residential land value estimated at W109 billion' (US$136 million). There is no discussion in the SAR
regarding efforts that may have been made to gauge the response of residents indirectly affected by the
project, nor of any attempts made to compensate them or otherwise obtain their support. (Para 3.33 of the
SAR indicates that consultations and compensation were reviewed and found satisfactory, and that
consultations at Dadaepo were conducted twice, but the extent of those consultations is not fully
documented.) Reportedly, Bank staff, aware that the Dadaepo area was urbanizing rapidly (during
preparation there was reportedly little development around the proposed site and by 2003 the area had
become a high density urban development dominated by several high rise, residential apartment blocks),
repeatedly asked GOK whether there would be any problem with the new residents, and GOK repeatedly
stated that there would not be. This clearly reflected the situation at the time of project preparation and
previous Bank experience in Korea supported this assumption. The local government structure in Korea
was top down ­ the local mayor of Busan was appointed by the president.

This changed in 1995, when local elections were conducted for the first time giving locals an opportunity to
articulate their concerns more effectively to government officials. In hindsight, the Bank team could have
attempted to test local public opinion in some manner, although that may not have been acceptable to GOK
at the time. The Bank's procedures are structured (at least in spirit), such that the Bank team can
effectively play the role of a proxy for stakeholders not involved in the decision-making process for some
reason. In an ideal world, the Bank team could have served the interests of the residents, whose property
values were falling, more effectively. If the Dadaepo component had gone forward (say, if local elections
had not been held), and the affected local residents had not been compensated, a substantial number of
people would have suffered significant losses because of that component and would have had no recourse.

Port Traffic Forecasts for a country have two aspects, a global forecast for the country as a whole and a
second for the distribution of this traffic among the various ports. The global forecast has two
sub-elements, one that is linked to the growth of the local economy (and is somewhat easier to predict) and
the other, that is linked to growth in transit traffic (which depends on growth in the regional economy as
well as routing choices made by shippers in a competitive environment) which is somewhat harder to
predict. The distribution of traffic among ports is also difficult to predict, particularly when a new port is
being developed to relieve congestion at existing ports.

In the case of this project, for a variety of reasons the appraisal forecasts did not do well on either the total
traffic or its distribution among ports. The growth of Korean container traffic in the last decade has been
extraordinary, has increased quite independently from economic growth, and was thus severely
underestimated. Appraisal forecasts suggested a national container traffic growth rate of 7% between 1996
and 2001 and 5.7% between 2002 and 2011 (SAR, Table 13). What no forecast could accurately predict
at that time was the extraordinary export-oriented growth of the Chinese economy and the huge impact of
that growth on transshipments through Korea. Actually, the forecast of 6.4 million twenty-foot equivalent
units (TEUs) in 2001 was exceeded in 1998, with an average growth rate of 12% p.a. since appraisal.
Indeed, container traffic kept growing through the financial crisis. (See section 5.1 of the ICR for


                                                        - 5 -

numbers). At the time of project restructuring, the forecast for total container traffic was increased
significantly from that in the SAR, to 8.6 million in 2001 and 16.7 million in 2012.

The problems with forecasting the distribution of traffic between the congested established port at Busan
and the newly constructed port at Gwangyang were different and perhaps more serious and systemic. In
the case of Busan, container traffic was assumed to grow at only 2.5% p.a. between 1996 and 2001, while
its past growth had been in line with the national total. It appears that this expectation was based on two
related assumptions: first, that Busan would be unable to handle much further growth because it was
operating at levels close to capacity, and perhaps for that reason, it was assumed that once Gwangyang
came on line, most growth would occur there. As it was, productivity and capacity at Busan continued to
grow, and Busan's ability to absorb additional demand may have hindered Gwangyang's ability to grow:

(a) First, in the period since 1994, productivity increases worldwide and particularly at Busan (a
development that was perhaps hard to foresee when the project was appraised) combined with a significant
addition in net capacity have given Busan the ability to continue to grow and absorb new demand. The
Sin-gamman container terminal (operational in 2002) and Gamcheon terminal (operational since 1998)
together handled about a million TEUs in 2002. Three additional berths are under construction at the
Busan New Port at Gadok, west of the city, and are expected to become operational in 2005.

(b) Moreover, given the availability of capacity at Busan, it has held on to most of the growth in Korean
container traffic even after Gwangyang came on line. Although Busan's share of national traffic did
decrease somewhat from 95% at appraisal to less than 90%, its annual growth rate remained around 11%.
Obviously, the SAR assumed that the port of Gwangyang would open sooner than it did (1996 instead of
1999). But even so, the assumption that growth in Busan would virtually stop (going abruptly from 11%
p.a to 2.5% p.a.) upon the opening of Gwangyang was strongly dependent on capacity constraints in
Busan. If the possibility of increases in port capacity had been considered, it would have been obvious that
the growth of Gwangyang could only be more gradual.

Actually, container traffic at Busan more than trebled in ten years, from 2.6 million TEUs in 1992 to over
9 million TEUs in 2002, while the port capacity had been estimated at 5 million TEUs. At the time of
restructuring, the 2001 forecast for Busan was increased from 3.4 million TEUs in the SAR to 5.4 million
TEUs, but both forecasts still fell considerably short of the actual 8.1 million TEUs handled in 2001.
Apart from the capacity increases mentioned above, terminal and overall port productivity increased much
more than forecast by KMPA, who had used overly conservative estimates of capacity. Although traffic at
Gwangyang port grew rapidly from 400,000 TEUs in 1999, the first full year of Phase I operations, to over
1 million TEUs in 2002, traffic continued to increase even faster at Busan. Between the opening of
Gwangyang in 1999 and 2002, Busan container traffic increased almost 50% or 3.7 million TEUs. After
only three years of operations for Phase I (and less than a year for Phase II-1) with Phase II-2 coming on
line only in mid-2004, (the project financed Phases II-1 and II-2), it remains difficult to predict how the
distribution of traffic between Busan and Gwangyang will evolve.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Two of the three project objectives, including the key strategic objective of institutionalizing environmental
considerations in the planning and operation of Korea's port and maritime sector, have been satisfactorily
met, thus allowing the overall project a satisfactory rating.

The primary focus of the project was to mitigate the adverse environmental effects caused by maritime



                                                      - 6 -

transport. This was accomplished by the satisfactory implementation of the project components relating to
this objective:

(a) Ship waste treatment facilities were installed and have been operational at 13 ports in Korea since
1998. These facilities meet the requirements of MARPOL 73/78 and offer appropriate handling,
transporting and storing ship waste around the coast of Korea (see Annex 1 for figures);

(b) The completed Vessel Traffic Management System at Incheon and Busan ports has been operational
since the end of 1997 and has substantially reduced the number of accidents and near accidents, thus
greatly reducing the risk of major pollution that ship collision could provoke (see Annex 1 for figures); and

(c) The Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem Study was completed and two workshops financed by a
Global Environment Facility (GEF) were conducted with the Chinese State Oceanographic Administration
for the purpose of formulating a related GEF Project. According to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and
Fisheries (MOMAF), a US$14 million GEF grant was obtained in May 2000. As of June 2003, both
Korea and China had set up project coordination units and were discussing a detailed project plan.

The third of the listed objectives of the project, to strengthen the Government capacity to adequately
address environmental issues in maritime port development and operation, was also satisfactorily met.
Originally, this component was focused on KMPA staff. However, in 1995 there was a general
reorganization of the Korean Government and project components previously the responsibility of KMPA
were assumed by the newly created MOMAF. The Port Construction Division of MOMAF took over the
responsibility for environmental and other training included in the project. In addition, after cancellation of
the Dadaepo port component, the Bank agreed, in 1997, to increase the training allocation to provide
additional training of Government staff in environmental and economic policy. Through the project, an
extensive training program has been in place under the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE), KCTA
and MOMAF (discussed in more detail in para 4.2).

In addition, the preparation of the project also significantly enhanced local capacity to integrate
environmental issues into Project Design. The initial design of the (later cancelled) Dadaepo component
entailed encroachment of a sensitive wetland area in the Nakdong River which served as a transit base for a
large variety of migrating birds. However, due to concerns of adversely affecting bird migratory flows and
patterns, this alternative was not chosen. The chosen alternative (the so-called Cove alternative) had
significantly higher direct construction costs as well as a lower level of economic benefit. Bank
involvement helped the Government to fully understand the economic and environmental trade-offs
involved, quantify them, and thus make a better decision.

The second listed objective of the project, to reduce air pollution, level of noise and traffic congestion in
the City of Busan has not been met as yet. This is substantially due to the unpredicted growth of container
traffic described above, and the cancellation of the move of the timber and marine cargoes and related
processing industries from the center of Busan to Dadaepo. Perhaps, once the Dadaepo component of the
Project was cancelled, consideration should have been given to modifying the development objectives of the
Project when it was restructured. As it was, the unpredicted growth of container traffic negated the
potential environmental benefits of other Project investments. Even if Gwangyang port had achieved the
SAR forecast of 2 million TEUs, this would still have left 7 million TEUs that other ports in Korea would
need to handle. In other words, Busan would have been left handling 2 million more than the assumed
capacity of the port (5 million TEUs). Clearly, all existing facilities had to continue operation, including
the "Off-Dock Container Yards" (ODCY) that were expected to close and therefore reduce congestion in
town, after opening Terminal IV. Such ODCY are currently used by all terminals, but the (mostly older)


                                                        - 7 -

multipurpose berths, built without any on-dock container storage, are particularly dependent on them.

Nevertheless, traffic at ODCY in Busan fell after the opening of Phase IV from a high of 3.8 million TEUs
in 1997 to 2.7 million TEUs in 2002, thereby reducing the congestion in the city somewhat. Also, of all the
container terminals operating in Busan, the (project-supported) Phase IV terminals are clearly the best
positioned to minimize ODCY use (adequate stacking space to store a reasonable number of containers
on-dock has been provided) and the resultant traffic and pollution. There is no doubt that if these modern
terminals did not exist (and if even a part of the traffic currently handled by them were being handled by the
existing older terminals), the pollution and traffic situation in Busan would have been worse. Moreover,
for the following reasons, there remains hope that in the coming years further developments at both
Gwangyang and Busan will eventually result in the reduction of ODCY traffic which would significantly
improve congestion and pollution in Busan:

(a) First, the government continues to promote Gwangyang. Vessels calling at Gwangyang were exempted
from government levied charges and fees such as dockage, port dues, anchorage fees and wharfage (a 1998
Korea Maritime Institute (KMI) study estimated that together these government levied charges could be as
high as 25% of the stevedoring charges the operators charge the shipper). To encourage ships that called at
Busan to also call at Gwangyang, vessels calling at Busan were exempted from such government fees at
both ports as long as they called on Gwangyang (starting 2003, a charge equivalent to 20% of tariffs at
Busan is levied). Also, KCTA is committed to developing the port hinterland at Gwangyang (warehousing
and storage facilities, a logistics complex etc.). The city itself is taking an active role to develop services
(schools, hospitals, etc.) to attract needed private sector operators such as shipping agents. Once these
steps are made, and once Phase II of Gwangyang is completed, it remains possible that larger volumes of
container traffic will move from Busan to Gwangyang thus alleviating congestion in Busan. KCTA remains
convinced that Gwangyang is ideally located and designed as a transshipment port for containers bound
for/coming from ports in Northeastern China.

(b) Second, KCTA has ambitious plans to build new berths both in Busan (30 by 2011 including six that
are already under construction) and Gwangyang (21 by 2011) which if built would reduce the need for
ODCY. The new development in Busan is at the Busan New Port at Gadok, west of the city (and not likely
to cause congestion in the city).

(c) It is the Bank's understanding that Busan city has issued an edict requiring the closure of all but one of
the ODCYs by 2006 (the inland container depot at Yangshan, significantly north of the city and not
considered a contributor to congestion, was exempted). The city also levies a significant import tax on
import containers moving through the city by road or rail (i.e. transshipments and coastal shipping
containers are exempted). Though some terminal operators and KCTA staff hope that the date of the
closure may be further extended, there clearly remains significant pressure from the city of Busan to reduce
congestion and pollution related to port activities.

The move of timber and marine cargoes and related industries would have only displaced the nuisances
created by these activities from a central city location to a newly urbanizing area. It is not clear whether
the trade-off would have really been beneficial, as indicated by the strong opposition to the new port site by
the local population. With the cancellation of the Dadaepo component, these activities remained as they
were in 1993.

In summary, although the project objective to reduce air and noise pollution and traffic congestion in
Busan has not been fully met yet, there has been measurable progress in reducing the use of ODCY in the



                                                       - 8 -

city and the Government continues to work on further improvement as described in a) to c) above.
Therefore, in combination with the successful achievement of the other two project objectives, including the
key strategic one of mitigating the adverse environmental effects caused by maritime transport in Korea, the
overall project outcome is rated satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Gwangyang Phase II Port Development. The restructured project was to partially finance civil works for
Phase II of the Gwangyang Port. Phase II comprised eight container berths plus two multipurpose berths
with a total length of 2,700 meters, divided equally into Sections 1 and 2. Construction of Section 1 had
already started in 1995, with KTCA utilizing its own resources along with some funding from Republic of
Korea (ROK). The Bank financed civil works of both phases of Phase II. Phase II-1 is complete and
became operational in 2002. Construction of Phase II-2 started in 1999 and is expected to be fully
completed in mid-2004. Phase II-1 berths handled 77,000 TEUs in 2002.

The interesting feature of this component was that Phase II of Gwangyang Port was financed in large part
by bond issues of KCTA. Container Development Bonds contributed 30% of the project cost. These bonds
were placed with terminal operators (who had the option to resell them). The purchase of the Container
Development Bonds gave the buyers the right to operate and manage one container berth each at
Gwangyang and at Busan Phase IV, which was also under construction at the time. KCTA also raised
about $125 million by way of yen denominated `Samurai' bonds issued in 1996, 1997 and 2001. The Bank
loan financed less than 6% of the terminal. The rest of the resources came in the form of bonds placed with
the government (at a rate determined by the government), a loan from MOMAF and a government grant.
The Bank's participation in the new port of Gwangyang gave confidence to private entities investing in the
Samurai bonds and allowed KCTA to issue the bonds at interest rates lower than they otherwise could
have. These potential savings (tangible but hard to estimate) provided the Bank significantly more leverage
than its relatively minor share of the total financing would otherwise have provided. There is much to be
learned from this experience. If the Bank can successfully serve to send a credible signal of quality to the
private market (though it is not clear if Gwangyang is the most appropriate example), then the Bank can
potentially use the markets to significantly leverage its presence using relatively small levels of funding.

Busan Phase IV. Construction of Phase IV (Gamman terminal), including four container berths 1400 m
long and 530 m wide had already started while the project was being prepared. The Government requested
the Bank to finance the eight quayside container cranes to equip the four berths. This was to be the last
phase of container berth development in Busan (though as already stated, plans have been significantly
changed since then). The capacity of the terminal was estimated at 1.2 million TEUs per year.
Construction and installation of equipment proceeded as planned and the terminal opened on schedule in
January 1998. Traffic in that year reached 882,000 TEUs and in 1999, the design capacity had already
been exceeded. Traffic in 2002 was almost 2.2 million TEUs. This is certainly a very high throughput,
indicating a substantial increase in productivity.

Ship Waste Disposal Facilities. These were built on schedule and have been operational at 13 ports in
Korea since 1998. Studies financed by the Loan for the basic plan and working design for the facilities
were conducted expeditiously in 1995 and 1996. They established a foundation for the construction of a
network of facilities in 14 ports around Korea. Construction at the 14th port (Kohyun) was eventually
dropped because site selection became a problem following local opposition. It was considered that
facilities at three neighboring ports would serve as adequate substitutes. From June 1998 to June 2002, a
total ship waste of 23,100 tons (bilge, sludge, and waste oil) was treated, with the average growth rate of
waste treated exceeding 17% p.a. Reasonable usage fees and educational campaigns have encouraged
utilization of the facilities. In particular, facilities users have been publicly cited for their contribution to a


                                                          - 9 -

clean environment and illegal discharges denounced. The facilities are operated by Korea Marine Pollution
Control Response Corporation (KMPRC), a publicly owned corporation established in 1997 with a
mandate to minimize marine pollution. The ports (and ships) involved are small. To encourage use,
KMPRC charges user fees at levels significantly lower than those charged by private counterparts in the
bigger ports (W25000/ton as opposed to W80,000/ton charged by the private waste disposal firms where
they exist). One result of this is that KMPRC recovers only about 10% of its costs by way of user fees and
is subsidized for the remainder directly by MOMAF (at the level of about US$1.7 million annually).
MOMAF stated that the small level of subsidy was both affordable and well worth the environmental
benefit it provided.

Vessel Traffic Management Systems (VTMS). These systems were installed in both Incheon and Busan
ports and became operational in 1998. The system has considerably reduced the number of accidents from
69 in 1995 to only 11 in 2002, and the number of near misses by ordering avoidance maneuvers in time
(see Annex 1). The system has also increased port operational efficiency through better management of
vessel entry/departure and shorter berthing time of vessels by providing real time information to port
operators. It also helped with the management of vessel anchorage, pilotage, vessel route sequencing, etc.
All of these improvements also contributed to the productivity increases at the berths. Indeed, the success
of the system at these two ports led the Government to subsequently institute the VTMS at all ports in
Korea at their own expense.

Technical Assistance (TA) and Training. The Yellow Sea Study was successfully completed after some
delays due largely to the Government reorganization already mentioned. The Government decided that the
study fitted closely the mandate of the new MOMAF, and responsibility for its implementation was shifted
from the Ministry of Science and Technology to the Marine Environmental Division of the Marine Policy
Office of MOMAF. The study was conducted, as originally planned, by the Korea Ocean Research and
Development Institute.

TA for the preparation of the Ship Waste Disposal Facilities was successful as already mentioned above (in
para 4.1).

Of the two new studies included in the project at restructuring, namely: (a) the study to improve Korea's
marine environment management and (b) the port pricing study, only the first one was carried out with
Bank assistance. That study was completed in 2000 and its recommendations implemented without
difficulty. GOK decided to have port pricing matters addressed by the Terminal Operating Companies
(TOC) together with a compilation of existing local studies. The Bank received an English summary in
2001.

As already mentioned, a variety of training programs was carried out successfully. KCTA sent a total of
eight staff for periods of 3-12 months to the Netherlands, Japan, Taiwan, and the USA for training related
to developing, operating and managing container terminals more effectively. MOMAF financed 16 staff
for international training to acquire advanced technology on port development and environmental
protection. MOFE financed the most extensive training and sponsored 49 staff to train in various
universities in the USA, Europe and Japan on issues related to public policy and the environment. The
Bank team interviewed some of the returned trainees about their experiences. All indications are that the
training was successful as a result of their participation in these training programs, Korea's maritime
authorities now possess a cadre of managers with international exposure and a global perspective.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic rate of return was calculated for the two most significant components of the project: (a) in the



                                                     - 10 -

SAR for the Busan Port Phase IV (Bank financing US$30 million); and (b) in the restructuring report for
Gwangyang Phase II (Bank financing US$46.2 million; see Table 2.3 in the restructuring memo).

Busan Phase IV. Table 2 of the SAR gives detailed cost estimates for Busan Phase IV. The total cost
was estimated at US$468.7 million. However, the total cost used in the economic analysis (Table 16) is
only Won 180.3 billion, equivalent to US$225.3 million at the prevailing exchange rate of Won 800 per
US$. While duties and taxes are deducted, they could not account for such a difference between the
financial and economic costs. No explanation is given in the SAR for the discrepancy. On the basis of this
"low" cost estimate and "traditional benefits" including cargo handling cost savings generated by
eliminating the need for off-dock facilities and inland transport cost savings, the EIRR was 25.4% with a
benefit/cost ratio of 2.41.

The recalculated EIRR is about 19% (Annex 3). The project cost is higher than the cost used in the
SAR's economic evaluation, but lower than the financial cost estimate in Table 2 of the SAR. In the
appraisal estimates, benefits were based on the capacity of the terminal estimated at 1.2 million TEUs p.a.
The recalculated EIRR is based on actual traffic from 1998 to 2002 and an estimated maximum capacity
of 2.5 million TEUs, which reflects the actual productivity currently achieved at these other berths.

Gwangyang Phase II. The economic feasibility for this component was assessed in 1997 as part of the
restructuring of the project and is presented in the Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President
(MOP). The analysis is better than the one done at appraisal for Busan. For instance, the economic costs
are assumed to be about 88% of the financial costs, which is typically expected. However, the annual
distribution of construction cost is awkward, with 38% of the cost in the first year, and explains the rather
low rate of return. The actual cost has been more evenly spread over the construction period. The Bank's
analysis, presented in the restructuring report, considered the capacity of the terminal to be higher than the
2.4 million TEUs estimated by the KMI. Therefore, the base case suggests that the terminal, to be online
by 2002, could accommodate up to 2.9 million TEUs (based on operational enhancements that would
increase throughput) and assumes that this traffic would be reached by 2012. A large benefit coming even
before its opening to traffic is the value of reclaimed land which is leased out to the operators in the form of
terminal facilities. Other benefits are similar to those in Busan. In the base case, however, there is a
benefit not included in the low case, attributed to "savings from additional avoided traffic from Busan".
The EIRR for the base traffic case was estimated at 16% and in the low traffic case at 14%. The small
difference between the two, despite traffic more than double in the base case, shows the importance of the
land value benefit, assumed equal in both cases.

The analysis given in Annex 3 is based on actual costs and their actual annual distribution. Although civil
works costs were substantially lower than estimated, as contractors were hungry for work at the time of the
financial crisis, total project cost is within 1% of the original estimate. Land value is tentatively assumed to
be as per the original evaluation. The land has been leased to the terminal operators at rates arrived at as
part of a bidding process. KCTA was not willing to share the value of the lease rates it has obtained from
operators at Gwangyang thus far, beyond revealing that they were about 40% lower than corresponding
rates at Busan. Benefits related to traffic exclude those from avoided traffic at Busan, since the traffic
growth at that port exceeded all estimates. Based on these assumptions, the recalculated EIRR, is 14%, in
line with the original estimates.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial position of KMPA was always strong. The annual cash flow from operations was able to
finance almost 30% of capital spending and Government typically provided 60% of KMPA capital
investment program. Therefore, KMPA was able to limit its borrowing program to specific situations and



                                                       - 11 -

to balance out its cash flow requirements. KCTA, established in 1989 to develop, manage and operate
container-handling facilities in Korea, started operations in 1990. It was also expected to finance over 35%
of its capital investments from operations. Due to the importance of financing the ports' capital
expenditures from operations, it was agreed to use a self-financing ratio to monitor the financial condition
of both KMPA and KCTA, rather than the rate of return on the amount of net fixed assets in operation.
This ratio was to be no less than 20% of the annual average capital expenditures for a given year and the
following year for KMPA and no less than 40% for KCTA. When MOMAF was established and KMPA
ceased to exist, the covenant for KMPA became non operative. The coverage ratio of over 40% was
maintained by KCTA through the project period, with the possible exception of 1996.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as modest. The project includes a specific
institutional development component described in the SAR and Part E (v) of the Loan Agreement.
However, the initiatives included in this component were to be pursued with local financing and only
monitored by the Bank. They included the development of: (a) a system to privatize the multipurpose
terminals at all 27 international ports; (b) an improved system of performance agreements with various
terminal operating companies; (c) measures to enhance within KMPA the management and coordination of
the maritime environmental improvement program; and (d) standard operating procedures and engineering
designs for the retrofit of existing port facilities to minimize the pollution caused by their operations. The
creation of MOMAF, absorbing the activities of KMPA, combined with the frequent changes of Bank
project staff, resulted in little attention being paid to this component for the first three years of project
implementation. A 1997 mission report focusing on the restructuring of the project simply repeats the
content of the component and states that "the primary responsibility for promoting these objectives would
be that of the Port Policy Division in the Port Construction Bureau and the next progress report would
summarize MOMAF's actions taken to achieve the institutional improvements". The following supervision
report in 1998 repeats the above. Subsequent reports only deal with the three studies financed by the Bank
and there are no further references to the institutional improvements to be carried out by the Government
itself. This can be explained by further project staff changes in the Bank and the fact that there were no
specific TA or studies to be performed in support of these improvements.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
While devolving autonomy to the local governments was a decision of the central Government, the results
of this decision and of ensuing local elections could not have been predicted. As already described in
section 3 above, this change led to the cancellation of the construction of a new port at Dadaepo, the largest
component of the project.

The Asian financial crisis also affected Korea in 1997 and 1998, but seemingly had little impact on port
traffic. Total tonnage handled through all ports fell about 10% in 1998, but by 1999 it had already
recovered to 1997 levels. Container traffic continued growing throughout the crisis. The number of TEUs
handled in Busan increased from 5.8 million in 1997 to 6.4 million in 1998 and 7.7 million in 1999.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government reorganized its port sector in 1995 with the creation of the MOMAF, encompassing inter
alia all port functions previously carried out by KMPA. As mentioned, the Port Bureau of MOMAF
assumed responsibility for the project and there was no significant impact on project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The three implementing agencies were MOMAF, for the overall project, KCTA for the Busan and



                                                        - 12 -

Gwangyang terminals, and MOFE for part of the training component. Clearly, the investment activities
were carried out expeditiously and on time. Training and technical assistance was also implemented,
although generally with substantial delays, except for items directly related to investments, such as the
planning and design of the Ship Waste Disposal Facilities (SWDF).

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs came within one percent of the original estimates, without recourse to the 13%
contingencies provided. However, there were substantial cost variations between components. The cost of
Gwangyang was right on target, while the cost of Busan was only 70% of the estimate. KCTA assumed a
larger part of project financing, about 51% versus 37% expected, while the share of MOMAF was reduced
from 52% to 42%. SWDF cost about 65% of the target, while in the case of VTMS, the government
expanded its scope substantially (from Incheon and Busan ports to all ports in the country) at its own
expense. Details are in Annex 2.

The Government cancelled parts of the Loan at various times during project implementation. By the end of
2001, total cancellations amounted to about US$5 million. In 2002, the Government requested a further
one-year extension of part E of the project and Category 3 in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement, in order to
complete ongoing MOFE training by the end of 2003. After canceling the undisbursed amounts in the
components of the Loan that had closed, as of August 8, 2003, the undisbursed amount was about US$2.12
million of which some US$200,000 are likely to be withdrawn as part of the training. With these
cancellations, the Bank ended up financing only about 7.5% of the project costs. Availability of
counterpart funds was always satisfactory.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Aside from the Gwangyang container terminal, all project components are likely to be sustainable. The
VTMS and SWDF have already been in operation for some years and have shown significant benefits. The
new port capacity provided in Busan is already used beyond its originally estimated capacity. In the case
of Gwangyang, sustainability is possible, though significant risks do exist.

As noted in the economic analysis, at present KCTA has successfully leased terminals to private operators
to its satisfaction. Moreover, KCTA remains confident that Gwangyang will be economically sustainable,
and KCTA's confidence is reflected in its decision to proceed with plans to further expand Gwangyang
significantly. The port also provides Korean importers and exporters a world class back-up container port,
a strategically important option for a economy as trade-dependent as Korea is (Indeed, having the option of
Gwangyang was no-doubt valuable in the immediate aftermath of Typhoon Maemi in September 2003,
when operations in Busan were temporarily disrupted). However, in the long term, if the forecast traffic
does not materialize, the port's long-term sustainability will be adversely affected.

Traffic at Gwangyang, although somewhat behind the original forecast, is growing rapidly, going from
400,000 TEU in 1999 to about 1.2 million TEU in 2003. Also, as already mentioned, the Government is
taking extensive measures to promote greater utilization of this new port. However, establishment of a
successful port requires more than just government action. Attracting shipping agents, banking and finance
services, shipping lines and other related services to a remote new facility when an established world-class
facility exists just a 160km away will not be easy.

This concern is particularly accentuated because as described earlier there is not (nor likely to be in the



                                                     - 13 -

foreseeable future) a serious shortage of capacity in Busan. Both the economic and project development
case for the Bank investment in Gwangyang was based on a no-additional growth in Busan beyond
Gamman (Phase IV). However, as has been stated already, numerous enhancements and additions have
been made in the last decade and in the coming decade KCTA is planning to develop 30 new berths in
Busan New Port. This ambitious plan also includes significant new investment (21 new berths) in
Gwangyang by 2011.

This ambitious plan is based on internal forecasts that suggest a 2011 demand for 29.7 million TEU.
Though this forecast is not far out of line with the experience of the last 10 years, it is very aggressive,
assuming an average growth rate of about 10.6%. More importantly, KCTA continues to use overly
conservative estimates (300,000 TEU/year) of container berth capacity. Current throughput of the berths in
Busan Phase IV's terminal is 75% higher, and the highest throughputs achieved (such as in some terminals
in Hong Kong) are almost 400% higher. Container terminal productivity all over the world continues to
increase with the advent of more efficient cranes, larger ships and a greater share for forty foot units. For
these reasons, if the plan for Busan is implemented as currently conceived, it would undoubtedly increase
the risks to the sustainability of Gwangyang.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Terminal operators were selected before completion of the berths and therefore no time was lost in moving
to regular operation upon completion of the works and other installations at the container terminals in
Busan and Gwangyang. Staff was trained in the use of the VTMS and no particular problems were
encountered in its use. For the waste disposal facilities, there were some delays in getting operations
started, while MOMAF made arrangements for their operations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance on lending is rated satisfactory.      In identification, the project design was well aligned to
the current CAS and with GOK policy as outlined in the New Economic Plan (1993-97).

During preparation, the Bank's degree of involvement in Borrower preparation activities was sufficient,
and the Bank team provided ample advice. Mission frequency is likely higher than reported in Annex 4
because preparation missions likely overlapped with ongoing supervision efforts. The design of the project
was not too complex considering the capacity of the Borrower.

In appraisal, though three shortcomings have been discussed (regarding indicators, public participation and
port traffic forecasts), the Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank fielded a well
rounded team of 10 professionals representing core skills such as engineering, financial and economic
analysis, as well as more specialized skills such as oceanography and marine biology (see Annex 4). The
team's assessment of GOK's strong commitment to the project as well as its assessment of the institutional
capacity of the implementing agencies were right on target. The project's incentives for sustainability were
clear. It supported an important strategic initiative (institutionalizing environmental considerations in the
port sector) that Government had initiated and the Bank strongly endorsed.

The shortcomings in the Bank's performance though significant, are not egregious. First, expectations
regarding performance indications have increased between the time of appraisal and the present. In the
case of public participation, assessment needs to be tempered given that at the time of appraisal, the Bank's
stress on consultation was less well established that at present, and institutional structures in Korea were
not always conducive to consultation. By 1998, both Korea and the Bank had changed and the Bank team


                                                      - 14 -

seems to have learnt from the Dadaepo experience: the Gwangyang development was planned almost
completely on reclaimed land located away from local settlements, and the Bank seems to have tried to
ascertain that the project was actively supported by the local community (see MOP 22). In the case of port
traffic, the poor performance of the Bank's forecasts can at least in some part be attributed to two factors
that were particularly hard to predict with any accuracy in the mid-ninties: the boom in North East Asian
container traffic driven by exports from China, and the continuing increase in container port productivities.

7.2 Supervision:
In terms of supervision the Bank team performed well along many dimensions: assessments of project
implementation status (see Annex 4 for project ratings) were realistic; when it became clear that the
Dadaepo port component would not go ahead, the project was downgraded to unsatisfactory status; the
team showed flexibility and productivity in agreeing to the restructuring; and the team did an expeditious
job of taking the restructured project back to the Board for approval and enabling the project to reach
satisfactory status again. Indeed, a Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) done in 1999 by the Bank's
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) gave the project a satisfactory rating on all aspects of supervision and its
overall quality.

Also, following Korea's graduation, Bank management made a deliberate decision to reduce the level of
supervision. In light of the Borrower's implementation capacity, the Bank limited its involvement to
fulfilling its fiduciary duties and ensuring that physical works were efficiently executed. Supervision
budgets were also significantly reduced in keeping with this decision. Moreover, as Korea went from been
a borrower to a Part I country, the quality of the Bank's dialogue with Government changed (as did the
Bank's leverage, which was never very much in this project given the small share of total financing it
accounted for).

In general, this strategy was an eminently reasonable response to Korea's remarkable achievement in
sustainable development, as represented by graduation. However, it did mean that the Bank's ability to
engage the Government in sector policy dialogue was limited. The Bank team also did not systematically
monitor or report performance indicators.

Given the context, overall performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory, with the caveats discussed above and given the
circumstances in which the project was implemented.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower was keen on improving its
maritime environment and urban environment in Busan and had an adequate policy framework for the
project, including the "polluter pays" principle as an essential element of ecological sustainability, and its
signature to the MARPOL Convention, which it took seriously. The Borrower financed preparation,
including the environmental assessment for this category "A" project, through its own funds and carried
out the necessary feasibility studies and assessments expeditiously. However, in the case of Dadaeapo
port, GOK misjudged the strength of local opposition to the project. It could have done more to explain
the merits of the project to the population of Busan at large.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance in implementation is satisfactory. The Borrower's commitment to the project



                                                      - 15 -

and specifically to its environmental aspects was most commendable. Its environmental policies were
adhered to. It has exceptional implementation skills, and physical project components were completed on
schedule. Counterpart funding was never a problem.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
After the reorganization of the sector and the creation of MOMAF, KCTA became the principal
interlocutor of the Bank on implementation of the two large port components. Both components were
executed satisfactorily and operations started on schedule. MOFE also diligently implemented the training
program for Government officials, sending some 49 persons for study abroad. All loan covenants were
complied with.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance has been satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Five lessons may be drawn from the implementation of this project.

1. Bank financing as catalyst to mobilizing private sector funds. By seeking funding of Gwangyang,
rather than canceling funds not used for Dadaepo, KCTA and GOK were able to provide confidence to the
markets for other bond placements. Although the Bank contribution was less than 6% of the cost of the
project, its participation was viewed, especially during the financial crisis, as a sign of confidence in GOK's
decision to proceed with the project. This experience suggests the possibility for the Bank to leverage its
credibility effectively with relatively small investments.

2. Dealing with opposition to the project. Wherever a project negatively affects a segment of the
population, there is potential for opposition. If such a case exists, an attempt should be made to draw out
local concerns and attempt to address them. Possible strategies could include:

    - identifying and working with champions to spread the word about the benefits of the projects; and

    - finding ways to compensate those impacted negatively (even when they are not entitled to
    compensation as per formal Bank guidelines). In the case of the Dadaepo port, impacted apartment
    residents could have been offered compensation and the compensation could have been linked to
    benefits from the gains in the center of Busan.

3. Definition of the project. It is better to limit the number of components or parts of component which
are not at least partially financed by the Bank as they tend to be forgotten by the Borrower and the Bank,
particularly when the personnel involved in project preparation on both sides changes frequently. It is
difficult to convince the Borrower to keep track of expenditures on project components not financed by the
Bank and often not under its jurisdiction ­ for instance rail and road links built to connect with port
development. For softer requirements such as institutional developments to be entirely financed by the
Borrower, an alternative would have been to have these developments as covenanted obligations in the
Loan Agreement. However, in this case, the Borrower who was on the verge of graduation, may have been
reluctant to agree.

4. Traffic forecasts. Typically, traffic forecasts have a tendency to be over-optimistic, reflecting
enthusiasm in supporting projects. In the case of Korea and other east-Asian countries, the experience has
often been the opposite. Traffic forecasts have been too low in previous transport projects in Korea, but



                                                      - 16 -

this experience was not used for this project. The low forecast for Busan port traffic, using only a 2.5%
growth rate, when traffic had been growing at over 10% p.a., resulted in overestimating the potential for
reducing congestion and pollution in the city caused by the port traffic. Indeed, actual traffic continued to
grow at about 11% and the new project offered only a temporary relief to off-dock facilities in the city.

5. Port capacity and diversion of traffic from established facilities to new ones. The experience with
the volume of traffic handled at Busan port currently suggests that estimates of capacity at ports remain a
moving target. Indeed, container port productivity around the world has continued to increase at
impressive rates throughout the last decade. In addition, the Busan experience strongly suggests that users
have a marked preference for established facilities relative to new ones, and it is difficult to divert traffic to
new facilities unless insupportable congestion and/or deliberate policy interventions tip the scales.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                    The Implementation Completion Report
                         Ports Development and Environmental Improvement Project
                                                  (Ln. 3793-KO)


   1.0 Project objectives and components

   1.1 Project objectives

         Korea is peninsula which is enclosed by sea and has a wonderful marine environment; very large
     tideland, wide shallow water, marine sightseeing resources, etc. The above environment is a very
     important factor for nation economy by providing seafood and marine sightseeing. Also marine
     environment provides natural environment for varieties of living things.

         However, Korea marine environment is devastated rapidly these days because of rapid economic
     progress and population growth.

        Thus, Korea needed to respond to immediate requirements for environment devastation prevention
     and to longer-term requirements for marine environmental improvement.

        As of November 3, 1994, in accordance with the Article 2.01 of the loan agreement concluded with
     the IBRD, the Government of the Republic of Korea procured a total of US$100 million needed for
     Port Development and Environmental Improvement Projects.

        The project was designed to support measures to achieve the following result:

        (a) Mitigate the adverse environmental effects caused in the Korean maritime transport;

        (b) Prevent Vessel collisions in the port area by the scientific system, and improve Port service by
   timely providing of port operation information;

        (c) Assist in the financing of container handling equipment for the Busan Phase IV Container



                                                     - 17 -

Terminal and of construction for Gwangyang Phase II container Terminal; and

    (d) Strengthen the capability of MOMAF to address environmental issues, and a program to monitor
pollution, ecosystem productivity and changes in the yields of living marine resources in the Yellow Sea.

    These project objectives were closely attuned both to the Government's program and to World Bank
Loan program on the port development and marine environmental improvement.

1.2   Project components

Project objectives have been achieved through below components;

A. Gwangyang Port II container Terminal Construction (US$ 46.25million): KCTA

   As a result of the cancellation of the planned Dadaepo Port Development Project, this component was
reallocated for the purpose of construction of the second phase of a container port facilities at
Gwangyang bay

   The Gwangyang Phase II container Terminal Construction which consists of 2 container wharves of
50 thousand tons, 2 container wharves of 20 thousand tons, one government berth and the development
of container yard is to satisfy not only the need of increasing logistic circuits but also to develop the port
as a hub-port in the Northern east Asia based on Port Gwangyang development plan.

B. Busan Port, Container Berth Development (US$ 30million): KCTA

   The severe congestion of container ships in port Busan has brought the increase of logistic cost for
the export and import cargos. Thus, this component aims to reduce the severe port congestion in port
Busan.

  Each of the berths will be a self contained operating unit with its own supporting container stacking
area, container freight station, maintenance shop and terminal office. The berths will have a draft of
15m. and will be capable of accommodating vessels up to 50,000 dead weight ton (DWT).

   Each of the four container berths being constructed will be equipped with two quay side container
cranes. The loan will help KCTA to finance the procurement of these container cranes.

C. VTMS, Vessel Traffic Management System (US$ 10million): MOMAF

   As a safety measure and to provide better control and coordination, this component is designed for the
development and installation of a traffic management system to monitor, regulate and control the
movements of vessels at the ports of Busan and Inchon/Asan.

   VTMS refers to the information exchange system in which movements of vessels around port,
channels are observed by the scientific observation equipments such as radar, CCTV and wireless-phone
and the information for the safe navigation is provided to vessels.

  The system would reduce the number of ship accidents, increase safety of navigation, and improve the
environmental conditions of Korean waters.




                                                  - 18 -

D. SWDF, Ship Waste Disposal Facilities (US$ 5.9million): MOMAF

   The basic plan and working of this component design for the construction of facilities for the
collection, storage, treatment and disposal of liquid wastes, garbage and sewage from ships, according
to MARPOL 78/73 and Marine Pollution Prevention law Article 46. The required facilities will be
provided at a number of ports strategically located throughout Korea in order to form a network of
facilities that would be able to serve the entire maritime sector, collect and treat virtually all of the liquid
wastes, garbage and sewage generated by the ships using waters. Since the majority of waste material is
produced by smaller coastal vessels, consideration will be given to developing a "hub" system at
moderate sized ports around Korea.

E. Technical Assistance and Training

Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem (US$ 1.5million): MOMAF

   This component is to diagnose ecosystem of the Yellow Sea and evaluate the quantity of marine &
fisheries resources. An international GIS database is to be established on the management ecosystem of
the Yellow Sea.

   Specific objectives for the component are to:

    (a) Implement a comprehensive monitoring and assessment program for the YSLME, led by the
Korea Ocean Research and Development Institute (KORDI);

    (b) Provide appropriate equipment for marine monitoring and assessment, and training for KORDI
staff;

    (c) Establish an international GIS data base for the YSLME containing information on pollution,
living marine resources, biodiversity, major ecological parameters and specific policies, and practices in
marine management, both domestically and internationally; and

    (d) Coordinate monitoring and assessment activities between Korean marine scientists and managers
and their counterparts in China.

Environmental Training (US$ 1.2million; technical study 0.6 million including): MOMAF

   The majority of MOMAF's management and technical staff have limited knowledge of the
environmental issues affecting the maritime sector. In order to begin addressing the environmental issues
confronting the port and shipping sectors, KMPA has decided to introduce a series of training programs
to upgrade the knowledge of the managers, engineers and port operating personnel in KMPA and
KCTA, to make them more aware of the environmental implications of port planning, construction and
operation.

    This component will consist of a basic training program (2 days), a 2-4 week serious training course
and 2-4 month overseas visits and training. Following the completion of the training program, selected
participants will be offered opportunities to pursue extended studies in environmental science or
environmental engineering.


                                                  - 19 -

   iii Reallocated Training Component (US$ 5million): MOFE

       These are comprehensive training programs intended to enhance professional knowledge of civil
   servants selected by designated ministries of the Borrower, which include courses in such fields as law,
   engineering, economics, planning, science, management, policy and regulation, as they pertain to
   maritime port development, construction and operation.

   Gwangyang Port Operations Training (US$ 0.15million): KCTA

    KCTA is responsible for the construction, operation and management of container terminals as well as
   general berth in Korea. Thus, the training which has been designed to learn knowledge and skill abroad
   in decision making process in order to develop, manage and operate container terminals should be
   required to cope with the rapid changes of international port situation.

     - Contents : financing method, construction, operation and management of container terminal, port
   privatization.

1.3 The present condition of project components

        Component                                 Allocated                Disbursement
 A Gwangyang Port II Container
     Terminal Construction                        US$46.25 million         US$36,835,844.57
 B Busan Port Container Berth
     Development                                  US$30 million            US$29,957,416.97
 C Vessel Traffic Management
     System                                       US$10 million            US$7,493,867.55
 D Ship Waste Disposal Facilities                 US$5.9 million           US$3,993,947.58
 E Technical Assistance and Training:
 - Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem              US$1.5 million           US$1,440,699.64
 - Environmental Training                         US$1.2 million           US$550,162,51
       (technical study 0.6 million cancelled)
 - Reallocated Training Component                 US$ 5 million            US$2,896,248.35
 - Gwangyang Port Operations
Training                                          US$ 0.15 million         US$125,788.08




                                                    - 20 -

2.0 Achievement of project objectives and components

2.1 Achievement of project objectives

   The Project facilitated the attainment of key goal; (a)Helping address the major environmental
concerns in Korean maritime transport through designing and constructing facilities for the collection,
storage, treatment and disposal of waste from ships (b)reducing the level of noise, air pollution and
traffic congestion in the City of Busan; (c) Assisting in the financing of container handling equipment
for the Busan Phase IV Container Terminal cranes install and Gwangyang Phase II container Terminal
construction; and (d)strengthening MOMAF's capacity to deal with environmental issues during port
construction and operation

2.2 Achievement of components

A. Gwangyang Phase II Container Terminal Construction: KCTA
  Gwangyang Phase II-2 container Terminal Construction (substructure works)was started on February
20, 1999 and will be completed on 2003.

  Soil improvement work for the container yard of the gwangyang phase -2 has been completed and
superstructure works has been under construction. The project is expected to be completed on time.

   KCTA has devoted its utmost efforts in developing massive container terminal in the Port
Gwangyang as a bridgehead logistics center in the 21C, together with the Port Busan. With the
completion of Gwangyang Phase II Container Terminal construction in the year 2003, the Port
Gwangyang will become one of the major ports in the world, possessing annual handling capacity of 2.8
million TEUs.

B. Busan Port, Container Berth Development: KCTA

   The installation container cranes, which were designed under Busan Phase container berths
development project, were completed during the periods 19 Sep. 1995 - Dec. 1997 and contributed to
reducing the level of container ships' congestion in port Busan.

   Busan Phase IV container terminal with 12 container cranes (8 cranes supported by IBRD Loan)
possesses annual handling capacity of 1.2 million TEUs. Especially, the cranes has handled
approximately 2.2 million TEUs of container cargo in the year 2002. The operation of Busan Phase IV
container terminal with the cranes has been playing a role to be the 3rd place of advanced container
terminal in the world.

C. VTMS, Vessel Traffic Management System: MOMAF

   Vessel Traffic Management System (VTMS) at Incheon and Busan port were completed and has been
operating since June 2002.

   VTMS has elevated the port operational efficiency through the management of vessel entry/departure
and shortened the berthing time of vessels by providing the real time information on port operation.
Information releases(About 640,000 times), Mitigation of vessel control (468 vessels · 4,284 vessels).




                                                 - 21 -

   VTMS has controlled the condition of vessel navigation with the information of vessel
entry/departure; Reduction of vessels has prevented accidents(91·26, 71% reduction), Prevention of
anchor drag and vessel route secession(17,000 vessels), Enforcement of vessel regulation.

   VTMS has shortened the berthing time of vessels by providing the real-time information on port
operation. Vessel operation and port facilities condition, provision of real time information on port
condition (Facilities usage fee is charged based on the vessel condition information; Management of
vessel anchorage( 61,000 vessels), Timely pilotage (66,000 vessels).

D. SWDF, Ship Waste Disposal Facilities: MOMAF

    Ship Waste Disposal Facilities(SWDF) were completed and has been operating since 1998. From
June 1998 to October 2002, a total waste of 23,100 ton (bilge, sludge, and waste oil) was treated;
Average annual growth rate reaches up to 17.5%.

   - Appropriate handling of the waste including collection, transportation and storage has been carried
out.
   - Efficiency of the facilities utilization has been increased through the reasonable usage fee.
   - Facilities users have been publicized in order to restrain illegal discharge of the marine waste and
protect the
    marine environment.
   - With the establishment of vessel oil storage facilities which meet the requirement of MARPOL
73/78, waste
     handling facilities could be secured nationwide. The facilities have shortened the handling time of
waste
     including oil and strengthened the competitiveness of shipping lines.

E. Technical Assistance and Training

Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem: MOMAF

   As of March 2002, Adjustments are being made between the governments of Korea and China for
detailed project plan, since Submitted (March 2000) the project plan to the GEF Secretariat.

   - The YSLME Work Shop was held in Busan in order to introduce the results of the project to Korea
Marine Institute and to get advice from scholars.

   - The YSLME International Work Shop was held in order to review the results of the project and to
discuss future plan in provision for GEF project.

   - The final Report based on the field survey data, suggestions, opinions through the Work Shop has
been completed and submitted to the Bank.

Environmental Training: MOMAF

   Given the limited knowledge and experience of environmental matters in MOMAF, it is envisaged
that consultants will be hired to develop the training material and carry out the basic and specialized
training. The consultant will also design detailed TORs an overseas training program (either through
direct or twinning arrangements with ports/port authorities) in developed countries to enable selected


                                                    - 22 -

staff to gain port and maritime related environmental experience.

  The training would cover broad environmental issues affecting port and harbor development,
construction, operation, monitoring, reporting etc.

Reallocated Training Component: MOFE

  MOFE has been able to provide overseas training programs for 49 government officials in which they
have completed courses in Economics (25), Public (13), Public Administration (10), and Business
Administration (1), at highly reputable universities in the United States, Great Britain, and Australia.
These government officials have now returned from their studies abroad and are working as key
personnel in core ministries and agencies of the Republic of Korea, making significant contributions in
areas such as finance, economy, budget, government organization, and SOC.

Gwangyamg Port Operations Training: KCTA

  The training of the operation method, the management system regarding port activity and port
development skill are well advanced, enhanced KCTA staff's knowledge and skill for financing method,
the effective construction, operation and management of container terminals including environmental
consideration, port policy, etc.

  The Training Program which promoted 8 staffs of KCTA to get international competitiveness is
completed with satisfaction.

3.0 Main factors affecting projects

3.1 Factors outside Government control

  The first ship waste disposal facilities has been built and operated in the ports devoid of private
handling companies. With the new establishment of handling facilities of private companies, existing
facilities lost its competitiveness in terms of price. Accordingly the 2002 total handling amount is
expected to fall by 0.2% to 6,000 ton charge to the goal of this year. Despite the decrease, handling
charge is not likely to fall down due to the opposition from private companies and disagreement of
options among the government organizations.

3.2 Factors subject to Government control

  The key staff at MOMAF were highly supportive of project goal and timely pursuit of these goal.

  Especially, committed to the specialized organization, operators could secure the specialty and the
nationwide control of the facilities have been strengthened. In particular, the function of the facilities
have joined with marine pollution prevention activities and diversified use can be possible.

3.3 Factors subject to Implementing Agencies control

  The project implementation staff at MOMAF and KCTA were closely involved in project preparation
and implementation

  Especially, training for facilities operators (3 persons per 1 facility) are being performed on demand,


                                                   - 23 -

so the operators have been fostered to be specialists of each field. Also publicity and education
concerning marine environment have enabled shipping lines and seamen to promote understanding the
importance of marine environment and facilities use.

4.0 Sustainability

   The project components are very likely to be sustainable. All physical assets and studies (consultants)
are completed (or expected to complete), especially all physical assets successfully tested and fully
operational.

   Clear institutional responsibility and financial viability of operating agencies and technical and
professional knowledge of the MOMAF and KCTA ensure high operational standards and eminent
performance of facilities provided by the project.

   Especially, the Government commitment to better environmental protection combined with public
interest and control confirm the high probability of the project's sustainability.

   The Gwangyang Phase II Container Terminal Development Project is expected to be completed on
time, although there were few delays and partial design changes on works due to a contractor's
unsmooth management and plan caused by multi processes of works as well as changes of materials and
quantities as implementing soil improvement work.

   The Busan Phase, Container Berths Development Project was completed and has been contributed to
reducing the level of container ships' congestion in port Busan since 1998.

   Vessel Traffic Management System (VTMS) at Incheon and Busan port were completed and has been
operating since June 2002.

   Ship Waste Disposal Facilities (SWDF) were completed and has been operating since 1998. From
June 1998 to October 2002.

   The Training Program which promoted KCTA's and MOMAF's staffs and Civil Servants to get
international competitiveness is completed with satisfaction.

5.0 Bank Performance

   The bank's performance of supervision on the project component through the mission was
satisfactory.

   The Bank has provided its full supports to implement each program, especially the Bank has made
 construction of Gwangyang phase II container terminal is progressing on schedule. The mission found
 that the quality of the construction has been highly satisfactory and there were no major problems in
 implementing the project.

6.0 Borrower performance

 - Regular reports and performance indicators were provided to the Bank. Especially KCTA has done
its best to increase disbursement percentage of the Loan in implementing the project.




                                                  - 24 -

 - From the foundation of facilities to the present, the Government activities related to the ship waste
disposal facilities such as operation of the facilities, equipment security and financing have been very
satisfactory.

 - Together with the marine police, the operators have reinforced the regulation of illegal discharge of
the marine waste including oil waste in order to protect the marine environment.

 - For the facilities maintenance and repair works, operators are very much active in managing the
facilities and entrust regular check-up to consulting companies. The regular check-ups prevent the
facilities operation from being deadlocked.

7.0 Future operation

   - Gwangyang phase II container terminal Substructure works has been done on time and
superstructure works is proceeding on schedule.

   - The KCTA's undisbursement of the Loan including with retention money will be applied for
withdrawal by close of business on April 30, 2003

   - Full support should be provided in operating the facilities reasonably and in developing the
technology in order to change the ship waste disposal facilities into environment-friendly facilities. At
the same time the facilities should be publicized to users and the system should be improved for the
benefit of users.

   - Economic and legal factors as well as scientific factors should be studied in order to manage the
ecosystem of the Yellow Sea.



8.0 Key lessons

   The key lessons learned from the design and implementation of the project are as follows:

      (a) Protection of environment is expensive in instance of Korea to avoid excessive costs, technical
alternatives and their impacts should be evaluated and discussed by both the environment protection
agent as well as the initiating investor in order to find the least cost solution for the society and not only
a solution acceptable for maximum environmental requirements;

      (b) Because the project consists of multi-processes, it is necessary to adopt more concrete and
effective process management. It is also necessary to minimize soil disturbance and to develop good
working methods in soil improvement works. The effective survey management is necessary to devise
stable and logical working methods and conditions of soft ground and stability of structures by
comparing factors which were unable to grasp in design and planning stages; and

      (c) With the trend of container ships becoming larger and increasing strategic cooperation among
world's leading shipping companies, the role and the function of ports are rapidly changing. Due to these
changes of international port situation, the competition among neighboring countries to grasp the leading
position in the field of maritime trading is ever intense. Thus, the training program should be
continuously executed to cultivate an ability of KCTA's staff in order to actively cope with the changes
of international port situation.


                                                    - 25 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Pusan Port Phase IV Improvements

1A. Traffic Volume                                                         2,261,484
          Ship type/size                                                   Ship size (g/t)                Number
          '000 TEU                                                         below 20,000                      410
                                                                           20,000 to 30,000                  222
                                                                           30,000 to 50,000                  553
                                                                           50,000 to 60,000                  173
                                                                           Over 60,000                       287
                                                                           Total                           1,643
                                                                           All carrying containers



1B. Berth Occupancy Rate                                                   58.1%
1C. Vessel Delay (waiting for berth)
          Number of Ships Delayed                                          46
          Average Delay (hours)
1D. Port Market Share                                                                  Ship calls          TEU
          Ship Calls                                                       Busan           81%                80%
          TEU or Revenue Tons                                              Gwangyang       19%                11%
                                                                           Others                               9%
                                                                           (ship call data not available for others)

2. Vessel Traffic Management System                                                         1996           2000
                                                                           Incheon               4             0
2A. Number of Collisions in Pusan and                                      Busan                 5              0
Inchon Ports
2B. Number of Other Accidents (including                                                    1996           2000
accident description)                                                      Incheon             10              3
                                                                           Busan                30              4

3. Ship's Waste Disposal Facilities

3A. Number of Ports Operational          14                                13
3B. Amount of Waste Collected (by port)                                    Total 6,000 tonnes in 2002
4. Training Components
 Number of Trainees (by title and                                          MOFE       49
Ministry/organization)                                                     MOMAF 16
                                                                           KCTA        8

1. No targets were given in the PSRs, only the list of indicators to be reported on periodically.
Output Indicators:
                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal        Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate          Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million        US$ million
1. Gwangyang Port Phase II                                        642.12              708.10             110
2. Busan Port Phase IV                                            468.70              393.64              84
3. Vessel Traffic Management System                                21.15               55.00             262
4. Ship Waste Disposal Facilities                                  12.76                8.20              31
5. Technical Assistance and Training                                8.73                5.00              58

Total Baseline Cost                                              1153.46             1169.94
 Physical Contingencies                                            80.43
 Price Contingencies                                               72.18
                          Total Project Costs                    1306.07             1169.94
                    Total Financing Required                     1306.07             1169.94
1. The "appraisal estimate" column is from the restructuring report of January 10, 1998 approved by the
Board on March 10, 1998.
2. In the case of the Vessel Traffic Management System, the government expanded the scope of the project
substantially (from Incheon and Busan ports to all ports in the country) at their own expense.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                    2          N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             235.84            0.00             0.00            795.41       1031.25
                                     (46.24)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (46.24)
2. Goods                             147.09            3.00             3.00             63.00        216.09
                                     (39.50)          (3.00)           (3.00)            (0.00)       (45.50)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00            18.94             0.00         18.94
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (8.26)            (0.00)       (8.26)
4. Land Acquisition                   0.00             0.00             0.00             39.79        39.79
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                             382.93            3.00            21.94            898.20       1306.07
                                     (85.74)          (3.00)           (11.26)           (0.00)      (100.00)
These estimates are from the restructuring report of January 10, 1998 approved by the Board on March 10,
1998.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                     2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                             101.29            0.00             0.00           915.49       1016.78



                                                   - 28 -

                                           (41.35)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (41.35)
   2. Goods                                 29.96              0.00             81.55             36.65            148.16
                                           (29.96)            (0.00)           (11.11)            (0.00)           (41.07)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.00             0.00              5.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.00)            (0.00)           (5.00)
   4. Land Acquisition                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               131.25              0.00             86.55            952.14           1169.94
                                           (71.31)            (0.00)           (16.11)            (0.00)           (87.42)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Gwangyang Port Phase II        46.25        615.05       37.79       41.35        666.75                 89.4     108.4      0.0
Busan Port Phase IV            30.00        527.70        0.00       29.96        363.68                 99.9      68.9      0.0
Vessel Traffic Management      10.00        15.18         0.00        7.49         47.51                 74.9     313.0      0.0
System
Ship Waste Disposal             5.90         9.23                     3.99         4.21                  67.6      45.6
Facilities
Technical Assistance and        7.85         1.14                     5.00                               63.7      0.0
Training
Total                          100.00      1168.30       37.79       87.42        1082.15                87.4      92.6      0.0

  The "appraisal estimate" column is from the restructuring report of January 10, 1998 approved by the
  Board on March 10, 1998.




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




Gwangyang Port (Phase II) Economic Analysis
(Cost and Benefis in billion Won, Traffic in '000 TEU))
           Project            Total     Actual            Net
  Year       cost    O & M    cost      traffic Benefits Benefits

   1995         0.33            0.33                       (0.33)
   1996         6.16            6.16                       (6.16)
   1997        50.26           50.26                      (50.26)
   1998        80.48           80.48                      (80.48)
   1999        66.64           66.64                      (66.64)
   2000        83.51           83.51            185.90   102.39
   2001      115.95           115.95            185.90    69.95
   2002      216.97           216.97        77    4.20   (212.77)
   2003                15.51   15.51       200   11.29     (4.22)
   2004                15.51   15.51       500   28.53    13.02
   2005                15.51   15.51       800   46.72    31.21
   2006                15.51   15.51     1,000   57.32    41.81
   2007                15.51   15.51     1,200   68.08    52.57
   2008                15.51   15.51     1,329   74.67    59.16
   2009                15.51   15.51     1,472   82.38    66.87
   2010                15.51   15.51     1,630   90.86    75.35
   2011                15.51   15.51     1,806  101.58    86.07
   2012                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2013                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2014                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2015                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2016                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2017                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2018                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2019                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2020                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2021                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2022                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33
   2023                15.51   15.51     2,000  107.84    92.33

 Total       620.30   325.71  946.01
                                        EIRR              14.0%
                                        NPV(12%)          38.65



Financial cost:               708.10
Economic cost:         87.6%  620.30




                                               - 30 -

Busan Port (Phase II) Economic Analysis
(Cost and Benefis in billion Won, Traffic in '000 TEU))
           Project            Total     Actual            Net
  Year       cost    O & M    cost      traffic Benefits Benefits
   1994        76.95           76.95                      (76.95)
   1995        82.16           82.16                      (82.16)
   1996        80.60           80.60                      (80.60)
   1997      104.37           104.37                     (104.37)
   1998         0.75    6.90    7.65       882             (7.65)
   1999                 6.90    6.90     1,398             (6.90)
   2000                 6.90    6.90     1,769             (6.90)
   2001                 6.90    6.90     1,923             (6.90)
   2002                 6.90    6.90     2,187  165.61   158.71
   2003                 6.90    6.90     2,362  178.86   171.96
   2004                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2005                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2006                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2007                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2008                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2009                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2010                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2011                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2012                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2013                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2014                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2015                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2016                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2017                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2018                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2019                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2020                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2021                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2022                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41
   2023                 6.90    6.90     2,500  189.31   182.41

 Total       344.83   179.40  524.23
                                        EIRR              18.8%
                                        NPV(12%)         313.20



Financial cost:               393.64
Economic cost:         87.6%  344.83




                                               - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/08/1992                5    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              04/30/1993                4    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/1994                 10     FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
                                             (2); PORT OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMISTS (2);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); MARINE
                                             BIOLOGIST (1);
                                             CHEMICAL
                                             OCEANOGRAPHER (1);
                                             COUNTRY SPECIALIST
                                             (1); COUNTRY
                                             COUNSEL(1)


 Supervision

              11/18/1994                2    ENVIRONMENTAL                    HS             HS
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              11/18/1995                2    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         U               U
                                             PORT ENGINEER (1)
              03/15/1996                2    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         U               U
                                             PORT ENGINEER (1)
              10/07/1996                1    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)          U               U
              12/13/1996                1    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)          U               U
              07/04/1997                6    ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER          S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1)
              03/23/1998                2    ECONOMIST (1); PORT              S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)



                                              - 32 -

               10/19/1998              2    PORT ENGINEER (1);                S    S
                                            TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)
               06/21/1999              1    PORT ENGINEER (1)                 S    S
               12/21/1999              2    PORT ENGINEER (1);                S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENT (1)
               12/21/1999              1    PORT ENGINEER (1)                 S    S
               09/29/2001              1    PORT ENGINEER (1)                 S    S
               02/19/2002              2    PORT ENGINEER (1); WATER          S    S
                                            TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               06/2003                1     TRANSPORT SPECIALIST              S    S
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           116.6                         457.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   8.3                          42.3
  Supervision                          117.4                         506.0
  ICR                                     8.3                          41.6
  Total                                250.7                       1,047.9




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for Ports Development and Environment Improvement Project dated
August 12, 1994.
2. Korea: Ports Development and Environment Improvement Project (Loan 3793-KO) - Proposed
Amendments to the Loan Agreement. President's Memorandum dated January 10, 1998.
3. All Supervision reports including PSRs, Aide-Memoires and supporting documents.
4. Loan Agreement (Ports Development and Environment Project) between the Republic of Korea
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated
November 3, 1994 as amended by letters of agreement dated June 3, 1997, April 13, 1998,
August 5, 1999, February 11, 2002 and October 17, 2002.




                                                - 36 -

- 37 -

