LOAN NUMBER 3793 KO
Loan Agreement
(Ports Development and Environmental Improvement Proj ect)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated       M        63           , 1994


﻿IDA NDMBER 3793 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated t0*tA&Hk- 03 , 1994, between REPUBLIC OF
KOREA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the
Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles
of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "MOST" means the Borrower's Ministry of Science and
Technology;


﻿-2-
(b)   "KMPA" means the Korea Maritime Port Administration, a
central administrative organ of the Borrower under the jurisdiction
of the Borrower's Ministry of Transportation;
(c)   "KCTA" means the Korea Container Terminal Authority,
established and operating under the control of KMPA pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 4191 dated December 30, 1989;
(d)   "1973/78 MARPOL Convention" means the International
Conventic, for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships;
(e)  ."Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)   "Affected  Person"   and  "Affected   Persons"  mean
individually the person or entity and collectively the persons or
entities whose right, title or interest in any property, business,
occupation or work is acquired or terminated or is intended to be
acquired or terminated or whose property is otherwise possessed or
intended to be possessed and who, as a result thereof, has been or
would be displaced or dispossessed from his/their habitat or land or
precluded from carrying out his/their business, occupation or work
on account of the execution of Part B (iii) of the Project; and
(g)   "Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the Korea Exchange Bank a special deposit
account in United Stated dollars on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a    six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in  Section   2.06  of   this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to


﻿- 4 -
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
" (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)   shall: (A) through KMPA, carry out Parts A, B, C and E
(ii) through E (v) of the Project; (B) through KCTA,
carry out Part D of the Project; and (C) through MOST,
carry out Part E (i) of the Project, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, environmental, engineering,
ports and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project;
(ii) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out, through KMPA, Parts A, B, C and E (ii) through E
(v) of the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Section I of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement; and
(iii) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out, through KCTA, Part D of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Section II
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)   In the event that during Project implementation the
Borrower shall decide to entrust private sector firms to carry out
the work under Part B (iii) of the Project, the Borrower undertakes,
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, through KMPA
and Pusan City, with such private firms, including the prompt
issuance by the City of Pusan of the required approvals and permits.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B (i), B (ii), C, D and E of the Project and to be


﻿financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the resettlement
and rehabilitation of the Affected People shall be carried out in
accordance with the following principles and objectives:
(a)  Affected People shall be consulted and participate in
the design and implementation of the resettlement activities;
(b)  at least thirty days prior to their displacement each
Affected People shall be provided with a compensation package,
in cash and/or in kind, sufficient to ensure that each
Affected People shall improve, or at least regain, the
standard of living and means of livelihood they were enjoying
prior to their displacement; and
(c)  each    compensation  package   shall   include:   (i)
compensation for the assets lost, at least, at replacement
costs; and (ii) adequate subsistence allowances during the
transition period of resettlement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and


﻿- 7 -
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, including KMPA and each District Maritime
Port Administration and KCTA, responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate. auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain   or  cause   to  be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records   and    accounts    reflecting   such
expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and


﻿-8-
(iv)   ensure that such   records and accounts    are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The provisions of Section 4.02 of the Loan
Agreement entered into between the Republic of Korea and the Bank
dated August 6, 1986 in respect of Loan No. 2726-KO (Pusan Port
Project) is hereby deleted in its entirety.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Republic of Korea
Kwachon, Korea
Cable address:                 Telex:
MOF                          K23243
Kwachon, Korea


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:          Telex:
INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The taole below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Catecor            Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               52,000,000      35%
under Parts B (i)
and B (ii) of the
Project
(2)  Equipment under:                          100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a) Parts A and C        15,500,000      100% of local
of the                               expenditures
Project                              (ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
(b) Part D of            30,000,000      other items pro-
the Project                          cured locally
(3)  Consultants'               2,500,000      100%
services and
training under
Part E of
the Project
TOTAL                    100,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 11 -
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   Category (1) unless the Borrower has furnished to the
Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Borrower's Ministry
of Environment has provided its environmental clearance to the
carrying out of Part B of the Project; and
(b)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $200,000, may be made in respect of Category (3), on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April
19, 1994.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
(a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $300,000
equivalent; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts not
exceeding  $100,000   equivalent;  (c)  services   of  individual
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and
(d) training regardless of the cost thereof, all under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
(a) mitigate the adverse environmental effects caused in the Korean
maritime transport; (b) reduce air pollution, level of noise and
traffic congestion in the City of Pusan; and (c) strengthen KMPA's
capacity to adequately address environmental issues in maritime port
development and operation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:     Construction of facilities in selected maritime ports of
the Borrower for the collection, storage, treatment and disposal of
liquid wastes, garbage and sewage from ships covered by the 1973/78
MARPOL Convention.
Part B:     Construction of a maritime port-cum-industrial complex
at Dadaepo located on the outskirts of the City of Pusan including:
(i) a breakwater; (ii) dredging, preparation and maintenance of the
access channel; (iii) reclamation works, about 2000 meters of liner
wharves and the required infrastructure for the establishment of an
adjacent industrial complex to house existing timber and marine
product processing plants and other industrial plants located in the
City of Pusan, including resettlement and rehabilitation of the
Affected Persons.
PART C:     Design and installation of a vessel traffic management
system to monitor, regulate and control the movements of maritime
vessels at selected maritime ports, including the ports of Pusan and
Inchon/Asan.
PART D:     Construction of four container berths in the maritime
port of Pusan, about 1,400 meters long, each berth capable of
accommodating vessels of about 50,000 DWT, and each to include a
supporting container stacking area, a container freight station, two
quay side container cranes, a maintenance shop and a terminal
office.


﻿- 13 -
PART E:     (i) Development and operation of a comprehensive program
for maritime monitoring and assessment of the Yellow Sea's large
marine ecosystem, including provision of equipment and training,
inter alia, for staff of the Korea Ocean Research and Development
Institute.
(ii) Carrying out of a study to formulate and evaluate
investment options, policies and strategies for purposes of carrying
out Part A of the Project, including detailed engineering.
(iii) Carrying out of a comprehensive training program to
enhance the knowledge of KMPA staff on environmental aspects of
maritime port development, construction and operation.
(iv) Carrying out of a maritime port engineering and
operational training program for staff of KMPA.
(v) Strengthening of KMPA institutional capability through
the development of: (a) a system to privatize the multi-purpose
terminals at the Borrower's 27 maritime international ports; (b) an
improved system of performance agreements with various terminal
operating companies; (c) measures to enhance management and
coordination of the Borrower's maritime environmental improvement
program; and (d) standard operating procedures and engineering
designs for the retrofit of existing maritime port facilities to
minimize the pollution caused by their operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 2000
through April 1, 2009               5,000,000
and on October 1, 2009              5,000,000
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment             Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                  0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                  1.00
maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank,
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other
to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b) In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with suc,. modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    Bidders for equipment under Part C of the Project and works
under Parts A and B (i) of the Project shall be prequalified as
provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Korea may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 17 -
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Equipment for environmental protection estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A (1) (b) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.   Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be


﻿- 18 -
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B
(i), B (ii), C, and E  of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines) . For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each.   However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contracts value to $100,000 equivalent or above,
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3);
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term    "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿- 20 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
and   other  evidence   required   pursuant   to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested.  On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to


﻿- 21 -
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿- 22 -
Schedule 6
Implementation Program
Section I
1.    The Borrower shall take all such actions as shall be necessary
to ensure that KMPA shall:
(a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and
port practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial, environmental and ports practices.
(c) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
2.    The Borrower shall take all such actions as shall be necessary
to ensure that KMPA shall resettle and rehabilitate the Affected
Persons in accordance with the principles and objectives set forth
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
3.    The Borrower shall take all such actions as shall be necessary
to ensure that KMPA shall produce, for each of the Borrower's fiscal
year after the Borrower's fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995,
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 20% of the
annual average of KMPA's capital expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that year and the next following fiscal year.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
aggregate amount of cash and marketable securities held
at the beginning of the fiscal year plus the difference
between:


﻿- 23 -
(i)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations,  consumer  deposits   and  consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-
operating income and any reduction in working
capital other than cash; and
(ii)   the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance
and  taxes  and  payments  in   lieu  of  taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and other
non-cash  operating   charges),   debt  service
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in working
capital other than cash and other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(b) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(i)    revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(ii)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
(a) above.
(c) The term "working capital other than cash" means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and
current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(d) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets
other than cash which could in the ordinary course of
business be converted into cash within twelve months,
including accounts receivable, marketable securities,
inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(e) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
which will become due and payable or could under
circumstances then existing be called for payment within
twelve months, including accounts payable, customer
advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.


﻿- 24 -
(f)  The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(g) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations.
(h) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
to the Bank.
4.    The Borrrwer shall, before September 1 in each of its fiscal
years, commencing on September 1, 1995 and thereafter, on the basis
of financial forecasts, satisfactory to the Bank, review whether the
requirements set forth in paragraph (2) of this Schedule would be
met in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank, through KMPA, a copy of such review upon
its completion. If any such review shows that the requirements set
forth in paragraph (2) of this Schedule would not be met for the
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take  all  necessary  measures  (including, without   limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of KMPA's rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
5.    By November 1 of each year, commencing on November 1, 1995 and
thereafter until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through KMPA, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the
proposed participants and programs for the training activities under
Parts E (iii) and E (iv) of the Project, and, thereafter, implement,
through KMPA, such training activities taking into account the
Bank's comments, if any.
6.    By March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 1996 and
thereafter until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through KMPA, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the
environmental impact of the facilities constructed under Part B of
the Project.


﻿- 25 -
Section II
1.    The Borrower shall take all such actions as shall be necessary
to ensure that KCTA shall:
(a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and
port practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial, environmental and ports practices.
(c) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
2.    The Borrower shall take all such actions as shall be necessary
to ensure that KCTA shall produce, for each of the Borrower's fiscal
year after the Borrower's fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995,
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 40% of the
annual average of KCTA's capital expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that year and the next following fiscal year.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a) The term    "funds from  internal sources" means the
aggregate amount of cash and marketable securities held
at the beginning of the fiscal year plus the difference
between:
(i)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations,  consumer   deposits  and  consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-
operating income and any reduction in working
capital other than cash; and
(ii)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance
and  taxes  and  payments   in  lieu  of  taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and other
non-cash   operating  charges),   debt  service


﻿- 26 -
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in working
capital other than cash and other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(b) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(i)    revenues  from all sources other    than  those
related to operations; and
(ii)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
(a) above.
(c) The term "working capital other than cash" means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and
current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(d) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets
other than cash which could in the ordinary course of
business be converted into cash within twelve months,
including accounts receivable, marketable securities,
inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(e) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
which will become due and payable or could under
circumstances then existing be called for payment within
twelve months, including accounts payable, customer
advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(f) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(g) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations.
(h) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing


﻿- 27 -
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
to the Bank.
4.    The Borrower shall, before September 1 in each of its fiscal
years, commencing on September 1, 1995 and thereafter, on the basis
of financial forecasts, satisfactory to the Bank, review whether the
requirements set forth in paragraph (2) of this Schedule would be
met in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank, through KCTA, a copy of such review upon
its completion. If any such review shows that the requirements set
forth in paragraph (2) of this Schedule would not be met for the
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of KCTA's rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
5.    By March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 1996 and
thereafter until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through KCTA, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the
environmental impact of the facilities constructed under Part B of
the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


