Dommatm of
Th¢ World Bank
FOR OFFIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6483
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
(CREDIT 507-TA)
November 7, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
Projects Department
Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents ma) not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TO* WORLD &ANK
Washington DC Od3
.S A
O.gunrw IveIu.tggm
Novembe: 7, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tanzania Fourth Highway
(Maintenance) ProJect (Credit 507-TA)
Attached, for information, 's a copy of a report entitled
'Proioct Completion Report on Tanzania Fourth Highway (Maintenance)
Project (Credit 507-Tk) prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa
Regional Office. Under the modified system for project performance
auditing, further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by mcipients onl) in the performr".c
of their ofhcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be d.s:1osed withoul %'orld Bank authonziht,,r, 



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,ANZANIA
CREDIT 507-TA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
i
Basic Data Sheet                             ............................. ....................ii-iv
Highlights ...... ..o... o... o.,o........  o..........*.o.....  v-vi
REPORT
I        IN'TRODUCTION  .........** ... o.oo..*o*o..o*.9o*oo*..              1
II.      PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL  .......         4
III.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST                                     8
IV.      INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT  .............           16
V.       ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION .,.. ..  ... o         oo     ..o.o.        18
VI.      CONCLUSIONS ooo...   ,oo..o.o*...o*o**o                            19
TABLES
1        Equipment Procurement Schedule *so##         ...oo...              21
2        Actuial and Expected Project Implementation.,...o..o.....          22
3        Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs.. ........    23
MAP
Highway Maintenance Project - Transport Network (IBRD 10949R)
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TANZANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT 507-TA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the
Highway Maintenance Project in Tanzania for which the Credit 507-TA, in the
amount of US$10.2 million, was signed on August 21, 1974. The Credit
became effective on November 20, 1974 and was closed on December 31, 1982.
The total amount disbursed was US$9.34 million and the remaining US$0.86
million was cancelled. This is the fourth project in the highway
subsector, which the Bank Group assisted in Tanzania, and together with the
Fifth Highway Project of March 1979, addresses the country's needs in road
maintenance.
The PCR was prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Department, Transportation Division, on the basis of information contained
in the Staff Appraisal Report, a review of Bank files including supervision
and progress reports, and information collected on a mission during
February 1983.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for commen s; however, none were
received.



-ii -
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
FOURTrH HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT (CREDIT 507-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA S'qEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or
Item                                               Estimate        Re-estimate
Total Project Cost (US$  million)                    12.45             10.52
Overrun ()                                          -                -16
Credit Amoant (US$  million)                         10.2              10.2
Disbursed                                                            9.343
Cancelled                                           -                0.857
Repaid to December 31, 1985                         -                0.12
Outstanding to December 31, 1985                    -                9.343
Project Completion Date                              06/78             12/82
Proportion Completed by Expected Date (%)             100                51
Proportion Completed by Completion Date (X)            -                 9$
Proportion of Time Overrun ()                                           100
Economic Rate of Return                                22              Negative
Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY75   FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
(i)   Estimate     0.5    2.2    6.5    9.7   10.2    -        -      -       -      -
(ii)  Actual       -      0.4    2.3    4.9    6.43   7.83   8.47   8.67   9.17   9.34
(iii) Actual       -        18     35     51      63     77     83     83      90     92
as z of (i)
Date of Final Disbursement: December 29, 1983.
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                                                Original Plan     Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable                                    02/17/72
Government's Application                                  -            09/06/73
Appraisal                                               2/73              12/73
Negotiations Completed                                    -           96/28/74
Board Approval                                            -            (18/06/74
Credit Agreement Date                                                  0 08/21/74
Effectiveness Date                                        -            11/20/74
Closing Date                                         6/30/79           12/31/82
Borrower                                            United Republic of Tanzania
Executing Agency                                    Ministry of Communications and Works
Fiscal Year of Borrower                             July 1 - June 30
Follow-on Project Name                              Fifth Highway Project
Credit Number                                     Cr. 876-TA
Amount (US$ million)                              US$20.5 million
Credit Agreement Date                             March 2, 1979



- iii -
Page 2 of 3
BASIC DATA SHEET
MISSION DATA
Month/  No. of  No. of    Staff   Date of
Mission            Year    Weeks   Persons   Weeks   Report
Identification    03/72   0.4          2       0.8   04/25/72
Preparation        06/72. 0.4          1       0.4   07/28/72
Preparation        11/72   0.4         1       0.4   12/28/72
Preparation        02/73   0.9         1       0.9   03/21/73
Preparation        08/73   0.6         1       0.6   10/12/73
Appraisal          12/73   2.5         4      10.0   01/08/74
Post-Appraisal    05/74   0.2          1       0.2   07/19/74
Total:  Seven missions totalling 13.3 staff weeks within 26 months.
Supervision        10/74   0.4         2       0.8   11/27/74
Supervision        04/75   0.3         1       0.3   06/16/75
Supervision        09/75   0.6         1       0.6   10/17/75
Supervision        11/75   0.6         1       0.6   01/14/76
Supervision        03/76   0.5         2       1.0   05/28/76
Supervision        03/77   2.5         1       2.5   05/10/77
Supervision        10/77   2.5         2       5.0   12/08/77
Supervision        01/78   0.5         1       0.5   03/09/78
Supervision        10/78   0.6         3       1.8   12/15/78
Supervision        03/79   0.5         2       1.0   04/09/79
Supervision       06/79   0.5          1       0.5   06/26/79
Supervision        08/79   0.5         2       1.0   10/15/79
Recasting          12/79   4.0         1       4.0]  02/01/80
of Project                1.3         1       1.31
Supervision       03/80   0.7          3       2.1   04/22/80
Supervision        06/80   1.0         1       1.0   07/15/80
Supervision        11/80   0.4         2       0.8   01/23/81
Supervision        09/81   0.4         1       0.4   11/11/81
Supervision        03/82   0.5         1       0.5   05/19/82
Total:  18 missions totalling 25.7 staff weeks within 74 years.
CURRENCY .     CANGB RATES
Name of Currency                                    Tanzania Shilling (TSh.)
Appraisal Year Average                              US$1 - TSh 7.14
intervening Year Average (end 1978)                 US$1 - TSh 8.00
Completion Year Average  (end 1982)                 US$1 - TSh 9.5



- iv -
Page 3 of 3
BASIC DATA SHEET
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA          - Canadian International Dezelopment Agency
COMWORKS      - Ministry of Communications aud Works
DANIDA        - Danish International Development Agency
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
PCR           - rroject Completion Report
SAR           - Staff Appraisal Report
TRM           - Trunk Road Maintenance
USAID         - United States Agency for International Development



v 
TANZANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT (CREDIT 507-TA)
PROJECT C0-iPLETION REPORT
Highliahts
The Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project changed the focus of Bank
Group Lending in Tanzania from investments in highway construction to
improvements in highway maintenance and institution building. The project
constituted the first phase of an intended two-phase etiort to establish a
trunk road maintenance organization. The first phase covered about 3,300
km of primary roads in the southern half of the country and the second
phase which was financed under the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 876-TA)
covered about 5,100 km of primary roads in the northern half of the
country.
Although the project failed to achieve its physical objectives, a
trunk road maintenance organization is in place in the regions and although
budget allocations for road maintenance were unsatisfactory during the
project period, they have been stepped up since then to satisfactory
levels. With the availability of more engineers trained under the Fifth
Highway Project and gradual improvement in training of technicians and
field personnel under the above project, accomplishment of maintenance
works is improving in quantity as well as in quality.
The project was the outcome of a "Tanzania Highway Maintenance and
Organization' study which was carried out in 1972 by consultants financed
by the United States Agency for International Development.   The
Association assisted the Government in reviewing the reports at various
stages of the study. The Government completed project preparation with the
assistance of an advisor financed by the Canadian International Development
Agency and a Government request for financing the project was made to the
Association in September 1973. The Association appraisal took place soon
afterwards in December (Paras 2.03 - 2.05).
Although the Credit Agreement became effective in November 1974,
the technical assistance financed under the project was not in place until
late 1977. Initially, COMWORKS was not convinced of the need for technical
assistance and considered its cost as too high for the project despite the
fact that two-thirds of the engineering and technicians posts were vacant.
Further delay in securing technical assistance services occurred from
unsuccessful attempts to obtain the services through bilateral aid.
COMWORKS also eid not succeed in negotiations with a consulting firm to
provide individual experts as opposed to a team of experts proposed by the
firm. A second firm was then contacted but negotiations were not concluded
until late 1976 (Paras 3.01 - 3.03).



- vi -
By November 1979, the contract with consultants providing
technical assistance and training services had expired and all tichnical
assistance and training staff had left the country. COMWORKS was not fully
committed to hiring consultants for the technical assistance services, and
poor housing and working conditions resulted in the majority of the staff
remaining only for short periods in the country. Counterparts were
appointed late and most of them were found to be not suitable. Hence,
performance of technical assistance and training staff was not satisfactory
(Para 3.07).
The procurement of equipment and spare parts was slow as a result
of non-fullfilment by COMWORKS of Bank procurement procedures particularly
over the requirement for prior review by the Association of bidding
procedures and documentation for International Competitive Bidding. When
procurement was completed in 1978, war broke out between Tanzania and
Uganda and the Government diverted the heavy equipment to military
operations (Paras 3.11 - 3.14 & 3.21).
The project showed no progress and COMWORKS proposed a recasting
of the project which was eventually approved by the Association in 1981.
The final agreement with the Association called for the procutement of
spare parts, few pieces of equipment and technical assistance. COMWORKS
undertook to execute a highwey maintenance program consisting of resaaling
214 km, regravelling 186 km, pavement repairs for 640 km, and routine
maintenance of a network which had expanded from 3,300 km at the beginning
of project in 1974 to 4,900 km in 1979 with the incorporation of more roads
into the network to be maintained by COMWORKS. The project was closed on
December 31, 1982 with US$0.86 million of the original Credit of US$10.2
million cancelled. There was little improvement in routine maintenance and
standards of resealing and regravelling. The project had a negative
economic rate of return (Paras 3.23 - 3.26. & 5.01).
A number of lessons have been learned from the project. First,
successful highway maintenance depends mainly on the quality of local
management and availability of requisite number of trained field personnel.
Second, the executing agency should be fully committed to employing
technical assistance staff, where needed, and have the ability to
administer and monitor the contracts for such services. Third, technical
assistance should play an advisory role only if there are suitable
counterparts. Fourth, the project demonstrated the need to develop the
local contracting industry to increasingly participate in road maintenance
and rehabl.itation works as an alternative to force account for all works.
The lessc/os learned from the project have been extremely valuable and
together with the experience on the recently completed Fifth Highway
Project have guided the design of the Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation)
Project (Credit 1688-TA) (Paras 6.06 and 6.07).



TANZANIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH HIGhWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT (CREDIT 507-TA)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       Tanzania is a large country (945,000 km2) with a widely
dispersed population (19.8 million) and sharply contrasting terrain (O -
19,340 ft. above sea level). This combination makes the transport system a
complex one with transport movements over long distances an important
characteristic. Additional demands by its land locked neighbours for
transit through the country contribute tl making the maintenance and
operation of the transport system more difficult. Overall, roads are the
predominant transport mode with the rail systems catering mainly to
importXexport traffic.
1.02       The Bank Group involvement in the transport sector in Tanzania
began in 1955 when a loan was made to the East African Community (EAC) for
a railway project. Assistance in the highways subsector did not occur
until 1964, two years after the country's independence. Bank Group
assistance was initially directed towards investment in new roads. In the
late sixties with t'lie departure of expatriate engineers and later, the
indigeAous engineers of Asian origin, the deterioration of the road network
through neglect of road maintenance became very evident. Bank Group
strategy, then, shifted towards institution building, training, and
assistance to strengthen the road maintenance organization. In all, the
Bank Group has financed six projects in the highway sub-sector, totalling
US$106.7 million, including a Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and
Improvement Project (Credit 743-TA, US$15.0 million, 1977).
1.03       In August 1974, soon after the Cridit Agreement for the Fourth
Highway (Maintenance) Froject was signed, the executing agency, Ministry of
Communications and Works, was split into two separate ministries, the
Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Ministry of Works. The
latter ministry became the new executing agency.  In July 1984, the two
combined again to form a single Ministry of Communications and Works
(COMWORKS). Hereafter, reference is made only to COMWORKS.
1.04       The COMWOORKS is headquartered in Dar-es-Salaasa, the capital.
COMWORKS is primarily responsible for the administration of the trunk road
system. It has divided the country into 20 regions for trunk road
maintenance (TRM). The project aimed at establishing TRM organization in
10 regions located in the southern half of the country and improving road
maintenance operations. The 10 regions in the northern half of the country
are covered by a similar project, the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 876-TA,
US$20.5 millioat, 1979) which closed on December 31, 1985.



-2-
1.05       The Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project (Credit 507-TA, US$10.2
million, 1974), the subject of this Project Completion Report (PCR),
i-cluded the maintenance/rehabilitation of about 3,300 km of primary roads,
the construction and improvement of road maintenance camps, workshops and
offices, the procurement of workshop equipment and tools and equipment,
spare parts and materials for road maintenance, the training of road
maintenance personnel and technical assistance to COMWORfKS. The financing
of the project was shared between the Government (20%) and the Association
(80%). There were no cofinanciers.
1.06       The souirces of information on which the PCR was based are listed
below:
1. Bank Project Files - Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project
(Credit 507-TA).
2. Appraisal Report and Credit Agreement.
3. Consultants Study on Tanzania Highway Maintenance and
Organization - Inception Report of March 16, 1972; Draft Final
Report (Summary) of March 1972; and Final Report (Vol. I, III,
and III) of August 1, 1972.
4. TRM/COMWORKSs Proposals for Tanzania Trunk and Territorial
Road Maintenance, July 1973.
5. GOT/Consultants: Contract for Trucking Industry Study, April
1975.
6. Consultants: Final Report oiL the Trucking Industry Study, May
and September 1976.
7.  GOT/Consultants:  Contract .n Technical Assistance and
Training for Highway Maintenance, September 1976.
8   Technical Assistance Consultants and MOW Quarterly Reports.
9. MOW: Local Construztion Industry Study (1977).
10. Staff Appraisal Report (1978), Tanzania Fifth Highway Project.
11. University of Dar-es-Salaam: Vehicle Load Regulation Study
for the Tanzania - Zambia Highway, June 19?9.
12. Consultants: Draft Final Report on Technical Assistance and
Training for Highway Maintenance, February 1980.
13. MOW/Consultants: Report on the Recasting of the IDA Fourth
Highway Project, November 1980.
14. Project Performance Audit Report No. 4030 on Tanzania - Second
Highway Project (Loan 586-TA/Credit 142-TA) of June 30, 1982.



-3-
15. Project Performance Audit Report No. 4031 on Tanzania - Third
Highway Project (Credit 265-TA/Loan 586-TA) of June 30, 1982.
16. Tanzania - Transport Sector Memorandum, Vol. I and II, May 17,
1982.
17. The World Bank Report No. 5085 on Institutional Development in
Africa: A Review of World Bank Project Experience, Vol. I and
II, May 17, 1984.
18. The World Bank Report No. 5019-TA: Country Economic
Memorandum - Tanzania - August 10, 1984.



- 4 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION. AND APPRAISAL
Origin
2.01     In 1970, the Government became concerned about deterioration of
the primary road network. It recognized the need to improve its road
maintenance capability which had suffered through loss of senior and
experienced staff and inadequate funding. Faced with the problem of also
h.iving to maintain about 17,000 kms of rural roads previously maintained by
the local authorities, the Government sought assistance from the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) to finance a Highway
Maintenance and Organization Study.
2.02     The study made recommendations for (i) the improvement of the road
maintenance organization, (ii) the reorganization of COMWORKS to take over
and maintain the regional and district roads in addition to the trunk road
system, and (iii) a five-year program (1972-76) for road rehabilitation and
maintenance. The Association assisted the Government by reviewing and
commenting on the study reports emphasizing particularly the institutional
aspects. The study was completed satisfactorily in early 1972.
Preparation
2.03     Based on the findings of the USAID financed study, COMWORKS began
preparation of a trunk road rehabilitation and maintenance project for
financing by the Association. Progress was slow because of the lack of
experienced staff and lack of interest shown by senior COMWORKS officials
in an Association financed road maintenance project. Most of the staff
were new and inexperienced and were interested more in design and
construction of new works rather than in road maintenance. In order not to
delay project preparation and at the initiative of the Association, an
advisor, financed by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA),
was appointed to COMWORKS to assist the ministry.
2.04     During the course of project preparation, the Government began
implementing a policy of decentralization of government administration and
a major reorganization of COMWORKS was taking place to decentralize its
activities. This was not consistent with the findings of the USAID
financed study which recommended the consolidation of authority in COMWORKS
over all roads in the country including the regional and district roads.
In the end, however, it was agreed with the Association to retain
administration of the trunk road system including responsibility for
execution of the trunk road maintenance in COMWORKS but responsibility for
regional, district, and other roads passed to the regional and district
governments.
2.05     A formal application for the Credit was sent by the Government on
September 6, 1973. The Government's application consisted of proposals for
a trunk road maintenance project including the development of a capable
trunk road maintenance organization in COMWORKS. The Government's approach
was considered by the Association as basically sound and a sufficient basis
for an appraisal which took place in December 1973.



-5-
Appraisal
2.06     The project as prepared by CONWORKS was found by the appraisal
mission to be too large. It was agreed with the Government to reduce the
scope of the project because of: (i) the availability of only about US$8.0
million of credit funds for the project, (ii) the shortage of adequately
trained staff in COMWORKS to implement the project, and (iii) the need to
test road maintenance methods suited to Tanzanian conditions on a reduced
scale before applying them to the whole country.
2.07     The Government agreed to carry out its trunk road maintenance
program in two stages. The first stage to be financed under the p.oject
would cover about 3,300 kms of primary roads located in the southern half
of the country out of about 7,200 k1m in the entire country. The balance
was to be covered under a subsequent project - the Fifth Highway Project.
2.08     Given the shortage of experienced staff, project preparation was
satisfactory. Many details were provided after the appraisal mission
returned to headquarters and they were in respect to: (i) plans and
speefications of road maintenance camps; (ii) costs of tools and mobile
workshop equipment; (iii) cost of training aids; (iv) updated traffic
counts for the roads to be rehabilitated under the project; and (v)
inventory and costs of workshops, tools, and equipment.
2.09     From the outset, the appraisal mission was concerned about the
availability of qualified and experienced manpower in COMWORKS and its
ability to execute the project satisfactorily. Only 16 of the 63
engineering posta were filled at tb t time and two-thirds of the
approximately 180 technician positions were vacant. How to meet this
shortage of manpower was the main issue which was to shadow the
implementation of the project and its outcome.
2.10     Although COMWORKS project proposal included a request for 21
expatriates to fill staff positions, the project component became a subject
of repeated controversv between the Association and COMWORKS. As early as
March 1973, the minister had indicated that he was opposed to employment of
consulting firms and intended to recruit individual experts under contract
with the Government. The Association mission in the field at that time
suggested considering the issue at project appraisal.
2.11     CONWORKS was aiming to give Tanzanian staff the opportunity to
learn on the job at a pace it was comfortable with. It intended,
therefore, to hire experts as individual advisors who could be integrated
easily into the ministry compared to a consulting firm. It also hoped to
avoid the cost of overheads and profits that would be charged to the
Government by a consulting firm. Before independence and several years
afterwards Government expatriate staff were recruited individually for
appointment to the ministry and Government had the machinery and the
experience in administering expatriate staff.



- 6 -
2.12     Unfortunately, the appraisal mission did not raise this as an
issue in its issues paper and Association management accepted without
discussion the misson's recommendation to recruit the expatriate technical
assistance staff as a team. This meant that the Government would have to
contract with a firm to provide the technical assistance staff. This was a
subject of disagreement frequently during project implementation.
2.13     There was also a genuine feeling in the Government, that senior
executive posts of an independent nation should not be seen to be managed
by expatriate staff. This led to the proposal to appoint all experts as
advisors although it was apparent that there were few suitably qualified
counterparts and that in reality, the advisors would be called upon to
function in executive positions.   This resulted in continuing
misunderstanding among the advisors as to their precise role.
2.14     In assessing the institutional capabilty of COMWORKS, the
appraisal mission concluded that the shortage of qualified staff would be
greatly alleviated wthin 5 to 10 yeara if COMWORKS were able to attract
students graduating in engineering in the mid-seventies. This conclusion
greatly underestimated the demand in the country for engineers and the
shortage has persisted to the present day.
2.15     The project aimed at the execution by force account of all road
maintenance works including periodic and rehabilitation works. Although
the appraisal mission gave a bleak picture of the capacity of the local
contracting industry to execute roadworks, it did not consider including
provision for strengthening and developing the industry and did not
consider this as a viable alternative to force account. The overriding
factor was an express Government policy of favoring the expansion of
Government involvement in all sectors including the construction sector.
Targets and Goals
2.16     The ultimate goal was to establish and operate, an organization to
plan, manage, and carry ouw the maintenance of the trunk roads (primary) in
the country to acceptable standards. It was to be done in two phases: the
first phase covering the southern half of the country and second phase, the
northern half. The project represents the first phase.
2.17     The successive project targets were to be as follows:
i)   to divest the regional government of responsibilty for trunk
road maintenance (TRM) and to pass responsibility to
COMWORKS;
ii)  to establish a TRM organization in each of the 10 regions
covered by the project headed by a Resident Engineer;
iii) to fu!inish each Resident Engineer with offices, camps,
equipment maintenance workshops, equipment and vehicles ant
spare parts and materials to enable him to execute a road
maintenance and rehebilitation program.



- 7 -
2.18     The main project objective was to prevent the deterioration of the
trunk road network and protect the investments made in it with a view to
eliminating transport as a constraint to rapid economic growth. In
addition to the main objective, the project also included a study of the
road transport industry in Tanzania. Thus, as early as 1973, the need
became apparent to direct attention also to the road users.
Prolect Description
2.19     The project, as finally agreed between the Government and
Assoclation, consisted of:
a)   the first stage of a road maintenance program, to be
implemented over a four-year period and to include:
i) the maintenance and, where necessary, rehabilitation of
about 3,300 kms of primary roads;
ii) the reconstruction and/or improvement of road
maintenance camps, workshops, and offices;
iii) the purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, tools and materials;
iv) the training of maintenance personael; and
v)   technicai assistance to COMWORKSj and
b)   a study of the road transport industry for the purpose of
developing recommendations as to pricing and licensing
policies and other regulations concerning the industry.
2.20     The project was expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.



- 8 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Start-Up
3.01     The project started slowly.  Although funds were allocated in the
Credit to finance technical assistance, the Government first made
unsuccessful attempts to obtain technical assistance staff through
bilateral aid. In October 1974, at the request of CONWORKS, the
Association recommended a consulting firm which was then invited by
COMWORKS to submit a proposal for the technical assistance services. The
firm's proposal was unacceptable to COMWORKS since the firm offered experts
as a team rather than as individuals.
3.02     The Association now shifted from the position it held during
project preparation and appraisal and agreed (1) to amending the role of
the consultants to that oi a staff recruiting agency and (ii) for the
recruited experts to work as individual staff of COMWORKS. But
negotiations with the consultants, on this issue as well as on the costs
issue, became protracted and yielded no result one year after the
consultants submitted their proposal and 14 months after signing of the
Credit Agreement. A, Side Letter to the Credit Agreement had stipulated
that three specialists (a maintenance management engineer, a training
coordinator, and an equipment specialist) would assume duties by January
31, 1975, four months after signing of the Credit Agreement.
3.03     Again, at COMWORKS request, the Association recommended another
firm as suitable for recruiting the technical assistance experts. In
September 1976, COMWORXS succeeded in signing a contract with this firm for
the recruitment of all experts: an engineering and administration group of
fifteen specialists to relieve the staff shortage and a training group of
siX training specialists to develop training courses and on-the-job
training programs. The contract included varicous administrative costs but
excluded specific mention of overheads.
3.04     The contract price of US$2.57 million for 634 man-months was
reasonable. The fifteen especialists in the engineering and administration
group were to fill managerial positions in COMWORKS. The group consisted
of 1 Maintenance Management Engineer, 1 Maintenance Administrator, 1
Equipment and Spare Parts Specialist, 2 Area Maintenance Supervisors, 7
Equipment Service and Maintenance Managers, 1 Special Projects Supervisor,
1 Premix Superintendent, and 1 Quarry and Rock Crushing Superintendent.
The training group consisted of 1 Training Coordinator and 5 instructors.
Technical Assistance
3.05     The arrival of the technical assistance specialists was spread out
in three phases. The first batch of four was scheduled to arrive not later
- three months following the date of signature of the contract
,.oeptember 1, 1976), the second batch of fourteen not later than 8 months,
and the third batch of three not later than 10 months. The first batch of



specialists arrived close to contract schedule. Only four out of the
fourteen in the second batch arrived as scheduled. By the end of the third
phase, four specalists had still not arrived. In two years, altogether 10
specialists had left the country either voluntarily or dismissed by the
Government. Others arrived to take their places. Still others continued
to leave and the picture as regards technical assistance was one of comings
and goings. At no time were all positions filled. In June 1979, COMWORKS
stopped further recruitment and some posts remained unfilled.
3.06     When the consultants' contract for technical assistance expired in
November 1979, only three key specialists were in place. The rest had left
mainly because of poor living and working conditions. Most of the
specialists had families but, in early 1978, of the eight based in Dar-es-
Salaam only one was provided with a house which was found by the
consultant's own efforts although the Government was required under the
contract to provide housing for technical assistance staff. Later, two
more houses were made available in Dar-es-Salaam.
3.07     Working conditions were difficult because of lack of office space,
insufficient transport and poor communications between headquarters and the
regions. Slow progress with equipment procurement and building of road
camps, workshops and stores and lack of spares and service and repair
facilties and fuel contributed to the frustration faced by the expatriate
staff. Above all, they had difficulty in managing local staff.
Counterparts were also not provided until late 1977 and when they were
provided, they were found mostly to be not suitably qualified and they
lacked the aptitude to benefit from the training provided by the technical
assistance staff. Relations with counterparts were not satisfactory and
many of the specalists were confused as to their precise role when
counterparts were appointed.  The counterparts expected the expatriate
specialists to work as advisors although the specialists were to fil'
managerial positions under their contract with the Government.
3.08     The Association supervision mission in December 1979, in its
evaluation of the technical assistance services, found that there was
little physical evidence of their effectiveness in improving road
maintenance. No inventory of the trunk roads had been compiled and no
procedures had been instituted for regular road inspections. Consequently,
there was little evidence of any realistic planning for routine and
periodic road maintenance. The TRM Organization had been established but
there was no systematic execution of road maintenance works.  The few
scattered and uncoordinated works that were carried out were of poor
quality. None of the ten regions covered by the project submitted progress
reports.
Formal Training
3.09     The Morogoro Training School was established in 1974 to train road
maintenance field personnel - road inspectors, foremen, mechanics,
equipment operators, and drivers. The project objective was to support the
school - to develop courses of instruction, prepare curricula and help
COMWORKS staff to teach the courses and run the school. Instead, the



- 10 -
consultants carried out separately their own program for the TRM staff
which was not integrated into the overall program of the school. Thus,
when the consultants left, the school was unable to sustain the additional
courses started by the consultants. Local instructors trained under the
project were not cffered employment on completion of their training.
3.10     The courses themselves were poorly attended.  COMWORKS staff were
reluctant to attend the courses because their salaries were cut by 35%
(later reduceJ to 10%) to pay for board and lodging at the school.  As the
training courses were conducted in English, many of COMWORKS staff, who
were Swahili speaking, failed to benefit to the planned extent, When the
consultants contract came to an end in late 1979, a total of 316 COMWORKS
personnel had been trained in nine courses.  Only 56 had been trained in
road maintenance.  Most of the training was directed at workshop and auto
mechanics training. Training targets were not set at appraisal.
Procurement
3.11     The project implementation schedule called for early steps to be
taken for procurement of equipment, spare parts, and tools. COMWORKS was
assisted by an expatriate financed by CIDA to prepare the bidding documents
which were submitted to the Bank for approval in February 1975.
Substantial changes had to be made to the documents before the first round
of bids could be invited in August 1975. The bidding was scheduled in
three phases. The first round of bids was opened on October 31, 1975.
3.12     However, there was delay in bid evaluation by COMWORKS and it was
not until about 4 months later that recommendations for contract awards
were submitted to the Association for approval. The Association agreed
with all COMWORKS recommendations except for the contract award regarding 2
bull dozers and 8 front-end loaders which was made to the second lowest
evaluated bidder. These items of equipment were of a popular make common
at that time in the country and were regarded by COMWORKS as more rel!-ble
than those of the lowest bidder. COMWORKS decided to go ahead without the
Association's approval and financed the disputed items of equipment from
its own resources. The Association considered cancelling from the Credit
the cost of the above equipment amounting to about US$500,000 but
eventually it did not.
3.13     The second round of bids for equipment and spare parts was
invited in late 1976. Bidding documents and advertizing procedures were
not sent to the Association for prior review. Local competitive bidding
was applied to purchase of bitumen in excess of US$50,000 when the credit
agreement stipulated ICB in this case. At the same time, contracts signed
based on the first round of bids showed quantities and prices different
from the bids. The Association at this point felt that COMWORKS either did
not understand Association's procurement procedures or chose to ignore
them.
3.14     In the event, the Association reviewed the bidding documents for
the second round of bidding ex post and was satisfied. However, bid
evaluation by COMWORKS again took over five months. On this occasion, the



- 11 -
Association approved the COMWORKS recommendations withvut comment.  In
retrospect, COMWORKS understandably proceeded witi! bidding for the second
batch of equipment without reference to the Association as COMWORKS was
following procedures previously approved by the Association for the first
batch of equipment. Although the Association was eventually satisfied with
the documents and proredures adopted, yet it demanded prior review of all
bidding documents before the third round of bidding in late 1977. The
disagreement over quantities and contract prices in respect of the first
round of bidding were also resolved to the satisfaction of the Association.
Table 1 provides details of the list of equipment procured under the
project.
3.15     With regard to civil works for the construct'on of road camps,
offices and workshops, although the Credit Agreement stipulated execution
by contract unless it was not found feasible, COMWORKS carried out all
works by force account with the approval of the Association. There is no
evidence of a basis for the Association's waiver of the requirement to
execute the works by contract. However, works did not commence until late
1976, over two years after the Credit was signed and none had been
completed three years later.
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works
3.16     The project goal was to establish an organization for the
maintenance of 3,300 km of primary roads. Many of the roads had
deteriorated and the project provided for the rehabilitation of these roads
in order to restore them to a maintainable condition. Practically, all the
gravel and earth roads, about half the total road network, required some
rehabilitation. Most of the paved roads were adequate at the time of
appraisal.
3.17     Twenty-three road camps and 7 workshops ;ere to be built in the
ten regions covered by the project. Thirty section crews for routine
maintenance and six specialized crews for periodic maintenance and road
rehabilitation works were to be organized and equipped, in stages, to
execute the whole program.
3.18     By late 1979, COMWORKS had constructed only 9 camps out of the 23
scheduled. There were shortages in supply of materials and fuel and
insufficient funds in COMWORKS budget to construct the camps. Only 10
crews for routine and 3 crews for periodic maintenance had been
established, less than 50% planned for establishment. There were only
sporadic attempts at execution of road maintenance operations and
rehabilitation works. The quality was poor and, overall, there was little
impact on the continuing deterioration of the primary road network.
3.19     Much of the poor performance in the field was due to the lack of
adequately trained foremen and inspectors and shortage of experienced
engineers. Above all, the organization for the execution of the whole
program was unsatisfactory.



- 12 -
3.20     Although the program was executed by the TRM organization headed
by a Resident Engineer, an employee of COMWORKS, the TRM Resident Engineer
reported to the Regional Engineer. Responsibility for supervision of the
TRM Resident Engineer was delegated by COMWORKS to the Regional Engineer.
The Regional Engineer was an officer of the Regional Government and as such
was also responsible for the administration of all the secondary and feeder
roads in the region, for which responsibility had passed to the Regional
Government under the Government's decentralization policy together with
responsibility for building works and water supply.
3.21     The Government's decentralization policy had the effect of
strengthening the local administrations and the Regional Engineer took his
orders from the Regional Development Director. Thus, his time was divided
between the demands of the Regional Government and COMWORKS with the
Regional Government generally having priority when there were conflicting
demands. As a result, resources generated by the project such as skilled
manpower and fuel were diverted to meet the needs of the Regional
Government. The war with Uganda in 1978/79 made matters worse when heavy
equipment and trucks were diverted for use in constructing the airfield at
Mwanza and for other military purposcs.
3.22     There was underutilization of equipment and low availability rates
as well as .frequent breakdowns caused by poorly trained operators and
repair and servicing of equipment and vehicles were unsatisfactory.
Inadequate provisions were made to maintain a regular supply of spare
parts; low priority was given to the execution of routine road ma?ntenance
tasks for which hand tools were generally adequate. Thus, the
deterioration of the primary road network continued despite the inputs
provided by the project.
The Recasting of the Project
3.23     In late 1978, it became evident that, even after technical
assistance staff had been in the ministry for nearly two years and most of
the equipment had been delivered, there was little improvement in road
maintenance. During this period, the Government was preparing the Fifth
Highway Project which aimed at implementing the second stage of
establishing a trunk road maintenance capability in the northern half of
the country.
3.24     At negotiations for the Fifth Highway Project in December 1978,
the Government and Association agreed that COMWORKS would prepare a
proposal for recasting of the fourth project in the light of lessons
learned at that time and already incorporated in the fifth project. The
Fifth Highway Project differred in the following respects:
i)   the TRM organization would report directly to COMWORKS rather
than to the Regional Engineer as was the case under the
Fourth Highway Project;
ii)  the role of technical assistance staff would be clearly
defined; and
iii) the road rehabilitation program identified the road sections
to be included in the project.



- 13 -
3.25     The project continued to show no perceptible progress for the next
12 months. COMWORKS had not submitted its proposal to recast the project
when, following a supervision in August 1979, the Association financed a
consultant to visit the country to assist COMWORKS in its efforts to recast
the project. The objective was to make the project "organizationally and
operationally consistent with the Fifth Highway Project" and prepare a
program to apply the balance of the credit proceeds effectively.
3.26     In May 1980, COMWORKS officials were invited by the Association to
Washington to discuss the problems facing the project. The basis of the
discussions was the report by the Association-financed consultant who
visited the country in November/December 1979. Following the meetings in
Washington, COMWORKS submitted, in January 1981, a proposal for recasting
the project, which was acceptable to the Association. The proposal was to
reallocate the balance of the credit proceeds (US$1.5 million) and to
establish a road maintenance program (January 1981 - June 1983) comprising
(i) the resealing of 214 km of paved roads, (ii) regravelling of 186 km of
gravel roads, (iii) patching of 1,400 km of paved roads, (iv) grading of
640 km of gravel roads, and (v) routine maintenance of about 4,000 km. To
implement the program, the Association approved the procurement of
additional items of equipment (about US$340,000), spare parts,
(US$960,000), and technical assistance (about US$240,000) for a total of
about US$1,540,000. However, there was little improvement in project
performance and the project was closed on December 31, 1982 with US$857,000
cancelled.
Study of Road Transport Industry
3.27     The contract for consulting services to carry out the study was
signed in April 1975. Unlike the case of selection of consultants for
technical assistance services, there was little delay in the appointment of
consultants for the road transport industry study. Only one consulting
firm was invited to submit proposals.
3.28     The inception report was delivered on time and a draft final
report was produced in December 1975, about two months behind contract
schedule. Both reports drew comments from the Association and C0MWORKS.
The Association felt that there was no comprehensive analysis of the role
of trucking in Tanzania, the constraints facing the sector and review of
transport policy and investment options to alleviate these contraints.
Much of the criticism by the Association 'and COMWORKS went unheeded in the
final report which was revised twice in May and September 1976. The study
identified various weaknesses and problems but was not very successful in
analyzing them and developing an action program to remedy them.
Implementation Schedule
3.29     A comparison between the original and actual implementation
schedule is shown in Table 2. Project implementation was three to four
years behind schedule mainly due to the: (i) time taken for the selection
of technical assistance specialists; and (ii) procurement disputes with the
Association.



- 14 -
3.30     The project was expected to organize and equip 30 routine
maintenance and 6 specialized crews. At the close of the project on
December 31, 1982, the division of crews according to function and task had
disappeared and only 12 crews were operating in all; six were carrying out
patching works on paved roads and 6 regrading gravel roads. There was no
other work being undertaken in the project area.
3.31     In retrospect, it is clear that the original implementation
schedule was unrealistic. However, even when the inputs were in place,
progress in the road maintenance and rehabilitation program continued to be
negligible. The situation at the close of the project was no better than
at commencement.
Reporting
3.32     The consultants responsible for the technical assistance and the
road transport industry study submitted their reports in accordance with
their contracts. There was no requirement in the Credit Agreement for
reporting by the Government. However, COMWORKS at the request of the
Association, prepared progress reports at quarterly intervals. The first
report was submitted to the Association in August 1975 for the quarter
ending July 31, 1975. The reports were satisfactory.
Performance of Consultants
(a) Technical Assistance
3.33     The consultants providing the technical assistance services were
employed by COMWORKS from September 1976 to November 1979. Altogether 21
specialists were to be appointed for an average of 2 1/2 years to fill a
variety of positions in COMWORKS. However, the maximum number of positions
filled at any one time was 16 and the average period of stay in Tanzania
was approximately 18 months. There were several replacemer-ts of technical
assistance staff during the contract period. Four remained in Tanzania
less than one year and 9 less than 15 months.
3.34     The large turnover of technical assistance staff was mainly due to
the lack of suitable housing and evacuations for medical reasons. To a
lesser extent, the frustrations at work were a contributing factor. Except
for the six instructors at the Morogoro Training School, the majority of
the staff lived in hotels. There were only three houses available in Dar-
es-Salaam and those working in Mbeya, Songea, and Tanga Regions were mostly
housed in the local hotels. Most of the housing offered by COMWORKS were
in need of rehabilitation. There were 13 evacuations from the country for
medical reasons including 6 by family members.
3.35     The consultants faced numerous constraints in the execution of
their duties. Office facilities were indequate, transportation was not
always available, there were delays in the assignment of counterparts,
particularly at the Morogoro Training School, spare parts and materials
were in short supply, and equipment was diverted to the army during the
Ugandan war.



- 15 -
3.36     In summary, work of the consultants was seriously hampered and
they failed to achieve their contract objectives.
(b)      Road Transport Industry Study
3.37     The contract for the study called for a large scope of activities
on the part of the consultants within a relatively short time. Reliable
data were difficult to obtain and in many instances non existent. The
consultants were generally satisfactory in identifying the problems facing
the industry but failed to analyze satisfactorily the issues, recommend
appropriate measures to resolve these issues and develop a program to
rehabilitate and strengthen the industry.
Project Costs
3.38     A comparison of the actual and estimated projected costs is shown
in Table 3. The project costs which reflect only the inputs financed under
the project are close to the estimated costs. While the Government's
contribution to support the project's local costs was satisfactory, its
allocations to the road maintenance budget were seriously cut during the
project period. Expenditures on routine maintenance dropped from TShs 37.7
million in 1980/81 to TShs 22.5 million in 1981/82. Although expenditures
rose slightly to TShs 24.9 million in 1982/83, it was obvious that
government was not as supportive of the project as it should have been.



- 16 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
4.01     At project appraisal, the Associaqion was concerned about two
institutional problems. First, in line with the Government's
decentralization policy, the regional governments had taken over
responsibility for all roads, but following agreement with the Association,
responsibility for the primary or trunk roads was retained by COMWORKS.
However, while planning, budgetting and financial controls were exercised
by COMWORKS, the responsibility for supervision of the execution of road
maintenance tasks was delegated by COMWORKS to the regional governments.
Second, there was a serious shortage of staff at all levels, senior staff
were inexperienced and technicians and field personnel were poorly trained.
4.02     With regard to the first problem, during negotiations the
Government had agreed to discuss wvether any adjustments in the
institutional arrangements might be required when implementing the project.
It was decided, when recasting the project in 1981, that the TRM
Organization in the regions should be taken out of the control of the
regional government as proposed for the Fifth Highway Project. This did
not prove to be entirely satisfactory as the Resident Engineers heading the
TRMs were unqualified and were recruited from the badly trained ranks of
technicians. The Regional Engineers of the Regional Governments, on the
other hand, were mostly qualified engineers.
4.03     With regard to the second problem, the project dealt with it only
partially by implementing a training program for field personnel at the
Morogoro Training School. In the Fifth Highway Project, a program for the
training of about 100 engineers in universities in India was successful and
in the proposed Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project, the Government
would institute a Highway Technician Course at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical
College. In retrospect, many of these efforts should have been initiated
earlier. The experience and management capability of senior engineers
continue to be a problem.
4.04     It was not realized at appraisal of the project that COMWORKS
would not be able to provide suitably qualified counterparts to technical
assistance staff financed under the project. The assignment of
counterparts did not begin until late 1977 (3 years after the credit had
been signed). Only 3 counterparts were assigned at that time compared to
21 expatriate technical assistance specialists to be financed under the
project. Eight counterparts took up their duties in May 1978. At no time
did the number of counterparts exceed 12. The Equipment Servi^es Manager
counterparts were all unsatisfactory and were reassigned. The others were
also not qualified to benefit fully from the technical assistance,
4.05     The shortage of engineers necessitated a heavy reliance on
expatriates. The Government recruited expatriate staff individually,
either directly or under arrangements with bilateral aid agencies. It was
reluctant to accept staff from consulting firms. A major problem was that
Government did not plan ahead to make timely replacements for staff when



- 17 -
their contracts expired. Many did not renew their contracts because of
unfavorable living and working conditions. The lack of suitable housing
was a critical factor. Even the staff provided under the project by a
consulting firm were not willing to extend their stay in the country.
4.06     By 1979, the results achieved by the project disappointed both
Government and Association. From the beginning there was a perception that
the Association was attempting to provide jobs for consulting firms by
introducing a large contingent 'f technical assistance staff. Senior
officials had shown little interest in a road maintenance project. The
Association refused to approve procurement that had been carried out
without prior review of bid documents and procedures. The delays that
followed and the exchange of telexes evidently upset COMWORKS staff and it
contributed to the eventual reluctance of COMWORKS staff to meet with
Association missions in the field.
4.07     The dialogue between the Association and COMWORKS was resumed when
COMWORKS officials were invited to Washington to discuss a recasting of the
project particularly in the light of institutional arrangements for the
subsequent maintenance project, the Fifth Highway Project. Except for the
separation of the Trunk Road Maintenance organization from the regional
governments, the recasting merely aimed at reallocation of the balance of
the credit proceeds. Opportunities were lost by the Government and
Association to scale down the project area and test the new arrangements.
4.08     The project closing date was extended four times from June 30,
1978 to December 31, 1982. In April 1980, an Association mission reported
that trunk road maintenance In the project area was 'little if any better
than it was in 1974", over 6 years after the credit was signed.



- 18 -
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
5.01     Field observations by an Association mission immediately after the
close of the project showed that thare was no satisfactory planning of road
maintenance in t.ie project area, and that road maintenance operations were
carried out on an ad hoc basis dependent upon availability of resources
such as fuel, materials, equipment, transport, and spare parts. The
organization and management of the regional trunk road maintenance
organizations were not effective and there was little control and
supervision over field crews and their activities. The few scattered road
maintenance works carried out were of poor quality and road conditions
reverted soon to their original deteriorated state. Thus, the savings in
vehicle operating costs projected at the time of appraisal did not
materialize. Therefore, the economic re-evaluation of the project shows a
negative economic rate of return.



- 39 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS
Prolect Justification and Obiectives
6.01     The project was a logical development after a decade of
involvement in the highway sector to upgrade the highway network. The
departure of expatriate staff after independence in 1962 and the exodus of
indigenous staff of Asian origin in 1972 brought into focus the decline in
road maintenance capability that had been going on for some time. Both
COMWORKS and the Association realized the need to stem the deterioration of
the highway network but while COMWORKS regarded the need for new
construction and paiing of the highway netwcrk as of equal priority the
Association considered road maintenance as the higher priority and
initiated the Idea of a highway maintenance project wL_h the objective of
(i) establishing institutional arrangements for trunk road maintenance,
(ii) training COMWORKS staff and field personnel, and (iii) implementing a
road rehabilitation and maintenance program.
Prolect Content and Scheduling
6.02     Although the project covered only about 3,300 km, it was
ambitious. The project area encompassed almost the whole of the southern
half of the country where communications have always been difficult and
suitable housing for expatriates scarce. For a pilot project, especially
with obvious problems, the project area was too large. The project should
have been tried out in one or two of the ten regions included in the
project located closer to Dar-es-Salaam.
6.03     The desirability of limiting the proje':t area becomes obvious when
considering the complexity of the pt. iect. A highway maintenance project
is necessarily a complex one requiring coaprehensive attention to
institutional arrangements ana, in Tanzania, it is more so as the project
had to cope with an environment of basic shortages - fuel, supplies, and
skills.
Prolect Implementation
6.04     The project design aimed to:  (i) implement a program of road
maintenance and rehabilitation and (ii) build an institution to plan,
organize, execute, and monitor road maintenance activities. However, it
left out three important factors:  (i) to defini. the road maintenance and
rehabilitation program; (ii) provide for training of engineers and
technicians other than artisans; and (iii) consider the alternative of
carrying out road maintenance activities by contract rather than by force
account.
6.05     The implementation capacity of COMWORKS was inadequate as it was
finding it difficult to fill vacant positions in the ministry, particularly
engineers, because of its reliance on bilateral aid for this purpose.
Senior staff were, therefore, engaged in attending to the day-to-day



- 20 -
running of the ministry with not much time available to administer and
attend to the requirements of the technical assistance staff financed by
the project. However, the amount of technical assistance staff needed for
project execution was correctly assessed.
Lessons Learned
6.06     The project clearly demonstrates that, for a technical assistance
component to be effective in Tanzania, several important conditions should
exist. First, the Government, particularly the executing agency, should be
committed to employing technical assistance staff.  Second, the role of
technical assistance should be clearly defined e.g. if it is to be advisory
or executive. An advisory role should not be agreed upon if suitably
qualified local counterparts are not available. Third, the Government
should have a satisfactory capability to administer the contracts for
technical assista;ace services. Fourth, before technical assistance staff
and their families arrive in the country, the Government should be
satisfied t'hat suitable housing, office facilities, and local
transportation have been earmarked. Fifth, each technical assistance staff
member should produce at the beginning of each half yearly period a
detailed work program, satisfactory to the Government, in terms of actual
tasks to be performed to achieve technical assistance objectives. Sixth,
the Governme-.t should monitor performance based on the individual technical
staff member's half yearly work program to see if it is justified to
continue the technical assistance.
6.07     Most importantly, the point made by the project is whether it is
possible at all to develop a full force account capability to execute road
maintenance works. Experience on the Fifth Highway Project also shows that
COMWORKS should limit its force account operations and that the alternative
of giving out most of the road maintenance works to be executed by ccut-act
should be considered. Accordingly, in the proposed Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project, provisions have been made for technical
assistance and training for the development of the local contracting
industry.



- 21 -
TAWANIA                                              Table I
FaM  HIGHWAY (AIWU         ) F RM   (CRITt 507-TA)
PRl OMPIE1CN NOWE
Ean FRl SCHlB
(Prior to Recating of Project)
C.I.F. Price
th. Date        Orrency         T Sh  Loa Costs Total Unit
Item                        Del'cPec'd        of Bid Eluiv.    (T Sh)  Pric  (T Sh)                  Remrks
FIRST BID. CALL
Piups                        57 May 77       Yen 8147W        22119    6155        282740    -
Pippers                      38 June 77    Yen3133330.00   85312   23174           106486    Sixteen iere taken by Aky.
Concrete Mixr                 2 Jun 73       TSh  -             -       -             -      -
Water Pump                    17 Jne 77       $      775       6346     700          7046    -
CGopressor 250 CR4            3 Jim    77    $    8,366.00   68501   12199          30700    Ome ias taken by Army.
Water Tank                    17 April 77   T Sh  -             -       -           12500    -
Angle Dwer D-7                2 March 77    $   77,886.00 637731   10707           648432    -
Roller Hyster                 2 March 77    $   24,624       201621   48313        249934    -
Wheel Loader 920              4 March 77    $   35,513       290780    6100        296880    -
Wheel Loader 930              2 March 77    $   45,580       373209    6702        379911    Om was iaken by Army.
Track Loader 951C             2 March 77    $  47,316        387423    8300        395723   -
Heater/Spray 250             16 March 77    $    4,076        69239   18320         875.59    -
Heater 500                    8 March 77    $   4,586         77902   20593         98495   -
Roller Bom 3/4 tn            14 March 77    $    2,013        34195    9043         43238    -
1hater 1500                   1 March 77    $   6,095        103536   27379        130915   -
Desanter 3000                 1 March 77    $   9,442    160,391   42395           202786   Mwanza.
Grader D-720                 15 Feb. 77      $   55,162    451,666   34748         486414    -
Wheel Tractor 444            16 Feb. 77    T Sh  -              -       -           88622    -
Wheel Tractor 574            20 Feb. 77      TS    -            -       -           89290    -
TIuck Tractor Scania          2 May 77       SW%KR 199300   376278   11960         388238   Were taken by Army.
Trailer Law td. 30r           2 May 77       9W-KR 126500   288832    8310         247142  W;4re taken by Army.
Crushing Plant/1131/5245      1 Aug 77       $  140,022    2378554 628786         3007340    Mmanza.
Asphalt Plant 5(YPH           1 Aug 77       $   105481    1791806  473691        2265497   %mnza.
SECOND BID CALU
Caravan 2 Bed                 6 July 78      $    5,954       50050    1050         51060    -
Mobile Wbtkshop              10 Jan-oct 78  $   91,477       768966   16135        784540   Three were taken by ArW.
Roller Towed 13-wheel         6 April 78    $    5,538       46242    2300          48542    -
Trailer Low td. 20T           2 Aug. 78    nM   43364        149782    9192        158974    -
Lubricating Unit             19 April 78    $    7,333       101063    8937        110000    -
Diesel Fuel Tank Irailer     20 Aug. 78    EM   31774        109750    6379        116129    -
Cbncrete Vibrator             2 Aug. 78    T Sh  -             -        -           11400    -
Distributor Bitumen 1000 gal. I July 78      $   29,377     223956   16940         240896    -
THIRD BID CALL
Compactors Lot                2 June 79      S   52,422     419900   17470         437370    -
Paver                         1 June 79      $   41,060     635608   31822         667431    -
Air Track Drills              2 July 79      $   34,598      277130   11540        288667    -
Compressor 600 CFM            2 June 79      Yen 5723600    190024   21976         212000    -
Cobpressor 125 CFM            % June 79    Yen 1932600        64162    7838         71700    -
Saloon Car Toyota             3 Feb. 79      $     4,79'      38408    5790         44198    -
Minibus Toyota                2 Feb. 79      $      5,67u     45417    6847         52264   -
Stawagon 4x4 Toyota           4 Feb. 79      $    8,095       64841    9775         74616    -



- 22 -
Table 2
TANZANIA
Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project - (Credit 507-TA)
Actual and Expected Project Implementation
Dates of                      Percent of
Begining of    Completion of  Completion
Contract Award   Work/delivery   Work/delivery  by Expect.
Project Component                Actual  Expected Actual Expected Actual Expectad    Date
1. Technical Assistance and
Consulting Services
(a) Advisory and Training
Services              9/76    11/74
(i)  First Group                           11/76    1/75   11/79   12/77          33
(ii) Second Group                           7/80    N.A    12/80    N.A         N.A
(b)  Trucking Industry Study                     5/75   12/74    9/76    6/75          15
2.  Training Aids                                    12/76    8/75    9/78    6/78         99
3. Road Maintenance Equipment
E,uipment1          2/77    1/76    6/79    6/77         58
4. Workshop Equipment
5. Building Construction
(a)  Workshop and Offices                        6/76    7/75      _1/   12/77
_      .    ~~~10
(b)  Road Camps                                  9/76    1/75      -1/    6/77
6.  Materials                                         6/76    1/75      -1/    6/78        20
1/ Not completed on project closing date.



- 23 -
Table 3
TANZANIA
Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project (Credit 507-TA)
Project Completion Report
Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs
(US $ Thousands)
Actual Cost/       A praisal Estimate1/ Actual Cost as
Project Component              Local Foreign1/Total  Local Foreign Total7 % of Appr. Est.
1. Technical Assistance
(a)  Advisory and
Training Services    50  2,375  2,425        135  2,670  2,805
(b)  Studies                  10     80      90        5     40      45 _      82
2.  Training Aids                  5      953/  100       65    270    335
3.  Road Maint. Equipment                                245  4,660  4,905
_  1,000  6,765  7,865   _                             134
4.  Workshop Equipment                        _ _         50    920    970
Subtotals4/                              10,480                  9,058         116
5.  Building Construction          0      05/    06/  1,135    200  1,335
6.  Materials                     15      25     40      615  1,440  2,055
Totals                     1,180  9,340 10,520   2,250 10,200 12,450
1/  Rounded figures due to lack of accurate cost data; an exchange rate of US$1 = TSh 8
for actual cost and US$ 1 = T.Sh 7.14 for forecast estimate of costs was used.
2/  Foreign exchange component used as basis for disbursement.
3/ Included in technical assistance bills.
4/ Since the expenditures, claimed for credit disbursements by the Borrower under items
5 and 6, are not representative for the building work actually executed and for the
materials actually purchased, a comparison of costs with estimates has to be limited
to items 1 to 4.
5/  Less than US$200.
i/ Credit funds under these four items were, with minor exceptions, not claimed for
disbursement.



-24-
MAP SECTION



U GAN DA
I % ><BUKOBA   iOMk  /  <s  (<->/1  X                                       K   E N  Y    A                                  A /   IC   A
E1URUND  +/                     J !                                                                                                              A II )  N  A
i %   0      <              ~~~AREA>III                       AREA illI-I                             -               
AREAe    V                      AREAIV V    '                                 M o b , 15;E.,
\ (  \'Mpondp \ * 9 r ! TI\   .  l                             l  / ndlIfl t, : 
RWNANAA
FEFOlCO1 /1  dIll    R oo ; . d I
e1\o Prg1 11140Ao e og1s1dIi J4ie$ 
HIGHWAY~ ~ ~ ~~~lk MANEANEPOEC         reS                                                              <,lNCA,g i<z-                           v.n  
P,la14n1140  Unrd01                                                                                                                                                                  \ /11f h14014  l -
,    R0100 140   P .o.\-
1/nBciponl tbdprt5n                          /                                   AA                                                           f Vr   -:
-- b milonc Bondcds                    \MALAWI                         \AAI                     --             >             r .
0ILO0ETERS                          i/                                                                                .        OZA         IQUE i



