Report No. 457a-TA                                                                    FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Highway Maintenance Project
Tanzania
July 19, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCX EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      = Tanzanian Shilling (T Sh)
T Sh 1             = US$0.14
US$1.00            =  T Sh 7.14
T Sh 1 million     = US$140,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kIm2)     =  0.386 square miles (sq mli)
1 hectare (ha)                =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                   = 0.22 British gallons (IMg)
= 0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)               = 2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)             2,204 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA      - Canadian International Development Agency
COMHORKS  - Ministry of Communications and Works
PAC       - East African Community
FARC      - East African Railways Corporation
GNP       - Gross national product
NRHC      - National Road Haulage Company
TAZARA    - Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development
vpd       - vehicles per day
GOVERNKENT OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



TANZANIA
HIGEWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......      .................... i - ii
1.  INTRODUCTION ................... ..,           .....   1
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .                .                  2
A. Economic Setting .                .                 2
B. The Transport System. .                             3
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination.                4
3. HIGHWAYS .............                                   6
A. The Network . .                                     6
B.   Traffic Growth and Characteristics. .             6
C. Administration .                 .                  7
D.   Expenditures and Financing     .     .            8
E. Planning ............                              9
F.   Engineering and Construction .        .           9
G.   Maintenance        ............................  ....   10
4.  _TE PROJECT         ......................................    11
A.   Description .......    ..........................  11
- The First Stage Highway Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Program .................. ..  11
- Construction of Road Camps, Workshops
and Offices ...............................   12
Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment ...   12
-- Training and Technical Assistance .........  13
- Review of the Road Transport Industry          14
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing ..     ...............  14
C.   Disbursements ..............................   15
D.   Execution ..................................   16
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION   ..............................   16
6.   ACTION TAKEN AND RECOMMENDATION ................. .   18
This report was prepared by Mr. G.I. Oluonye (Engineer), Miss F. Johansen
(Economist), Mr. N. Fostvedt (Economist) and Miss J. Murphy (Editor).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES:
__
1.  Highway Network
2.   Vehicle Fleet
3.   Central Government Hi.ghway Expenditures
4.   Composition of Secticn Crews and Special Crews
5.   Road Maintenance Equipnqent to be Purchased
6.   Technical Assistance to be Provided Comworks
7.   Capital and Recurrent P:.toject Cos ts
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Inventory of Road Sections Included in the Project
10.   Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs on Roads in Good Condition
11.   Economic Costs and Bemefits of the Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Program (Areas I and IV)
ANNEXES:
1.   Draft Terms of Referernce for Recruitment of Technical
Assistance for Implementing Malntenance Program
2.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to
Review the Trucking Industry
3.  Maintenance Program Implementation Schedule
CHART:    Proposed Organization of Highway Administration, Ministry or
Communications and Works
MAP:      Tanzania - Transport Network



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A HIGWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SLUIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        An efficient road network is essential to Tanzania which relies
on roads to connect its widely scattered rural popuilation with markets,
health and education facilities, and other Government services. Despite the
Govertment's efforts over the past decade to upgrade the network, only about
10' of the roads provide reliable, all v'eather service most are little more
than earth tracks, impassable during the rainy season. Proper maintenance
of the network is essential if access to rural areas is to be assured and
previous investments are to be safeguarded.
ii.       Since 1970, when the Ministry of Communications and Works (Comworks)
took over responsibility for a large number of inadequately maintained rural
roads and lost, soon afterward, many of its expatriate staff, maintenance of
the entire network has deteriorated. In 1971 the Government commissioned a
highway maintenance and organization sttxdy (USAID-financed) which made recom-
mendations on equipment, staffing and otganization designed to restore main-
tenance of the network to an adequate level. On the basis of these recoTrmen-
dations, Comworks decided to undertake an extensive maintenance program con-
centrating initially on primary roads which carry the greatest traffic volumes
and oll building up an appropriate maintenance organization. It was decided to
impleinent this program in two stages because of limited staff resources and
to ga:tn experience in identifying the proper balance of equipment, labor
and oTher needs.
iii.      The project comprises t-ie first stage of the road maintenance
program (with a total estimated cost of US$20.1 million equivalent) and also
inclu(es a study of the road transport industry in which a capacity shortage
has recently developed. The two areas with the highest priority of the four
into xwhich the country has been divided were selected for inclusion in this
stage of the program.  Over the four-year project period, 3,300 km of primary
roads in these two areas will be rehabilitated and maintained through the es-
tablishment of 30 section crews for routine maintenance and six special crews
for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation. The project will provide (i) the
road -amps and road maintenance equipment for the maintenance crews; (ii; workc-
shop !'acilities for the upkeep of this equipment  (iii) the training of highway
maintenance personnel at all levels, and (iv) technical assistance to CcmWor-k.
The total capital cost of the project 'S estimated at about USS12.5 million
equivilent of which IDA will finance the foreign exchange comiponent of US$10.2
million (82%). The Government will finance all remaining costs including
some JS$7.6 million of recurrent costs.



- ii -
iv.       Comworks, assisted by the technical experts to be provided, will
be responsible for the execution of the project. Procurement will be on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
l- es except for contracts of US$50,000 or less and for construction of the
many scattered regional workshops, offices and road camps which will be
awarded after local competitive bidding. The first year of the project will
be largely devoted to preparing procurement documents, building road camps
and drawing up a training program. The improved maintenance procedures and
rehabilitation works will commence in the second year as personnel are trained
and new equipment arrives. By the end of the fourth year, the roads will have
been rehabilitated and be receiving regular maintenance.
v.        The main quantifiable benefits expected to accrue as a result of
the p:oject are savings in vehicle costs for projected traffic.  Data con-
cerning user costs, traffic and road conditions are based on the maintenance
and o-ganization study updated by Comworks and the Association.  A comparison
of costs and benefits over an eight-year economic life indicates that the
project is sound, yielding an economic return of 22%, a first-year benefit
of 16%' and a benefit-cost ratio of 1.42:1.
vi.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.2 million to the
Government of Tanzania.



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      At the time of independence, the highway network was relatively
undevaloped and Tanzania undertook a bold program of road construction and
improvement. Over the past decade, some 2,000 km of primary roads have been
rebuilt, largely with Bank Group assistance. In recent years emphasis has
also been given to the development and maintenance of roads serving agricul-
ture and, since 1970, the Ministry of Communications and Works (Comworks) has
taken over responsibility for some 17,000 km of rural roads from the District
Councils which were unable to maintain them properly.
1.02      The greatly increased workload and subsequent departure of a
number of expatriate staff strained Comworks' capacity considerably, and a
substantial backlog of maintenance developed. So in 1971, the Government
commissioned consultants, Lyon Associates, Inc. (U.S.), with financing pro-
vided by the United States Agency for International Development (USAlD), to
undertake a highway maintenance and organization study. The study, completed
in August 1972, outlined a program for rehabilitating the entire highway net-
work '33,400 km) over a five-year period at a total cost of US$140 million
equivalent.
1 .03     Comworks considered the program recommended by the consultants to
be too ambitious in view of the human and financial resources that could be
made available but, using the consultants' recommendations as a base, designed
a program for rehabilitating and maintaining the country's primary roads
(those classified either as trunk or territorial main roads) at an estimated
total cost of US$50 million. Subsequently, the Government and the Association
agreed that the program should be carried out in two stages, both because of
the limitation in staff resources and so that the second stage could profit
from -he experience which would be gained in determining the proper balance of
equipment, labor and other needs. The proposed four-year project with capital
and recurrent costs totalling US$20.1 million comprises the first stage of
the longer-term program.
1.04      This will be the fourth highway project financed by the Bank Grou
in Tanzania. The first such project was financed by IDA Credit 48-TA (US$i4
million) in 1964, supplemented by Credit 115-TA (US$3 million) in 1968; it
consir-ted of (a) construction of six road sections totalling about 860 km,
(b) dc!tailed engineering of a 230 km section of what is known as the Taa-.'ami
highw. y linking Dar es Salaam and the copper belt in Zambia and of 335 km of
secon.;ary roads in the Geita cotton-growing district, and (c) technical
assis ance to Comworks. After initial delays and cost overruns, the project
was satisfactorily completed in 1970.  The second highway project was financed
by IDA Credit 142-TA (US$15.5 million), Bank Loan 586-TA (US$7.0 million), and
a Swedlish credit of US$7.5 million equivalent, all made in 1969. The project
consi' ted of the reconstruction of a 510 km section of the Tan-Zam highway,



-2-
satislactorily completed in 1972.  Excep t for a snort section ir. Tanzania
being reconstructed with financiag from USAID, reconstruction of the entire
Tan-Zu= highway has been complet2d, sections in Zambia having been financed
by a `i.K. grant and Bank Loans 439-ZA and 563-ZA. The third highway project,
being financed by Credit 265-TA (US$6.5 million) made in 1971, consists of
(a) inprovement to bituminous paved standard of approximately 200 km of an
existing gravel road between Mtwara and Masasi, (b) betterment of approximately
475 krn of agricultural feeder roads, (c) prelnvestment studies for the improve-
ment of about 250 km of roads, ard (d) technical assistance .o Comworks.
Progress was very slow because of delays 4n entering into contracts with con-
sultants for supervising betterment units and in tender arrangements for the
impro-ement works and the project is about two years behind schedule.  Equip-
ment for the betterment units has now arrived, consultants have been retained,
and a contract has been awarded for the improvement works. Substantial cost
overruDns are expected, for which the Government is seeking bilateral financing.
1.05      Other Bank loans for transportation include two (110-EA of US$24
million in 1955 and 428-EA of US$38 million in 1965) for the improvement of
equipnment and facilities operated by the former East African Railways and
Harbours Administration, owned jointly by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda as
members of the East African Community (EAC). More recently, the EAC's East
African Harbours Corporation has -eceived two Bank loans (638-EA in 1969 and
865-EA in 1972) totalling US$61.5 million, partly for expanding facilities
at the port of Dar es Salaam; work. is somewhat behind schedule but proceeding
satisfactorily.  And, in 1970, a loan (674-EA) of US$42.4 million was made to
the East African Railways Corporation (EARC), also Community owned. This
project has encountered serious dJfficulties due to financial, operational
and mrnagerial problems being experienced by the railway. The Bank and the
EARC are exploring ways of rectifying the situation.
1.06      This report is based on data contained in the above-mentioned Lyon's
study, on Comworks' proposal for primary road maintenance, and on the findings
of a mlssion comprising Mr. G.I. Oluonye (engineer), Miss F. Johansen and Mr.
N. Fostvedt (economists) which visited Tanzania in December 1973. The report
was edited by Miss J. Murphy.
2. THE TRANSP0RT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Tanzania, situated a few degrees south of the equator on the
eastern coast of Africa, has a land area of about 940,000 km2, a large part
of which is high, arid plateau. The population of about 14 million is con-
centrated in the areas near the thrae main Indian Ocean ports of Dar as
Salaam, Tanga and Mtwara, and In agricultural regions located on the peri-
phery of the country, i.e., the Lak. Victoria region, the highlands around
Kilimaajaro and the southern highlaads near Lake Nyasa. Only 7% oL the pop-
ulationa live in towns, but the urba>i population is increasing much faster
than t'ie national average of 2.8% p.a.



- 3 -
2.02      Agriculture is the main economic activity, accounting for almost
40% ok GNP.  About half of agricultural production is coulsumed domestically;
the main export crops are cotton, coffee, sisal and cashew nuts which together
account for 50% (1972) of export trade. The small but growing industrial
sector accounts for 10% of GNP.  Improved transport facilities and services
are essential to the country's economic growth and particularly to continued
development of its agricultural sector.
2.03      Tanzania's socialist development philosophy aims at reducing in-
equalities in income distribution through emphasis on rural development and
through state control of large-scale agricultural enterprises and important
industries and services, including those related to transport (para. 2.13).
To facilitate rural development and to improve its overall efficiency, the
Government in 1972 decentralized a number of its administrative activities,
giving the country's 20 regions substantial power to control planning and
budget provisions in their respective jurisdictions, particularly those ac-
tivities concerned with development at the local level. Implementation of
this decentralization policy as it affects transport is still at an early
stage (para. 3.08).
B. The Transport System
2.04      The transport system comprises about 33,400 km of roads, about
3,500 km of railways, three ocean ports, coastal and lake shipping, 21 airports,
and a 900 km pipeline, which is used exclusively for conveying oil to Zambia.
Development of the system has been dictated by the need to service scattered
areas of productive activity and to provide access to the sea for neighboring
landlocked countries. Because of the priority need to develop long-distance
transport, emphasis was initially on the railways and only in recent years
has attention been given to developing a reliable road network. Traffic
moves primarily in an east-west direction, to and from the ocean ports.
2.05      Despite the Government's efforts over the past decade to upgrade
the road network, only about 10% of the network provides reliable, all-
weather service. Most are little more than earth tracks impassable during
the rainy season, 2thus, in effect, decreasing the already low road density
of 36 km/1,000 km or 2.4 km/1,000 inhabitants. Road density differs con-
siderably from one region to another and, except for the Tan-Zam highway,
most of the engineered roads are located near Dar es Salaam and Tanga and
in the Arusha and Lake Victoria areas. Details concerning highways and their
administration are given in Chapter 3.
2.06      Two separate rail systems serve the country:  the East African
Railway, owned by the EAC and administered by its EARC: and the Tan-Zam
Railway, administered by the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) and
Jointly owned by those two countries. The East African Railway, serving the
northern half of the country, has two main lines within Tanzania: one from



- 4 -
Kigoria on Lake Tanganyika to Dar es Salaam (1,256 km), with an important
branch to Mwanza on Lake Victcria (380 km); and the second from Tanga to
Arusha (440 km), which also ccnnects with the Kenyan port of Mombasa. A
188 km rail link along the coast connects these two lines.  Burundi, and to
some extent Rwanda, use the Kigoma-Dar es Salaam line for the transport of
exports and imports.
2.07      The Tan-Zam Railway, which is a dif.erent gauge from the East
African Railway, extends about 1,000 km from Dar es Salaam to the Zambia
border at Tunduma. Construction, financed by the People's Republic of China,
started at Dar es Salaam, extends well into Zambia, and is expected to be
completed as far as Kapiri Mposhi in 1975. The completed section has recently
been opened for the limited transport of Zambian import-export traffic,
supplementing available road transport. Though basically designed to serve
Zambian transit traffic, the railway will, together with the Tan-Zam highway,
help to develop the potentially productive areas of southern and western
Tanzania.
2.08      The three Tanzanian ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mtwara, as
well as Mombasa in Kenya, serve Tanzania and most of its landlocked neighbors'
export-import traffic. The tonnage handled through the Tanzanian ports in
1971 was about 3.3 million tons, with Dar es Salaam handling about 86% of the
total and Tanga about 9%. All the ports are managed by the EAC's East African
Harbours Corporation.  Although coastal shipping is in general playing a de-
clining role, it remains important in the area between Dar es Salaam and Mtwara
due to the lack of an all-weather land connection. Shipping on Lakes Victoria
and Tanganyika also plays a valuable role in moving goods to railheads at
Mwanza and Kigoma.
2.09      Passenger transport by air is important, especially to remote areas,
but air freight has not yet developed to any significant degree. The East
African Airways Corporation, owned by the EAC, provides regular service to
21 airports within the country. There are two international airports, one
at Dar es Salaam and the other near Arusha.
C. Transport ?olicy and Coordination
2.10      For many years, transpcrt policy was directed almost exclusively
toward the requirements of external trade and emphasis was therefore on rail-
way development, with roads seen primarily as feeders to the rail system and
to the ports.  The growing need, as well, to accommodate transit traffic
is reflected in the recent construction of the Tan-Zam highway, railway and
pipeline and the expansion of Dar es Salaam port facilities.  While the move-
ment of export-import traffic remains important, transport policy is increas-
ingly giving emphasis to regional development, both by upgrading and extending
the main road network and by building roads to serve agriculture development.
2.11      While, in the past, competition between modes was limited to a few
routes, the potential for competition is increasing with the recent construc-
tion of road, rail and pipeline facilities between Dar es Salaam and Zambia;



and planning investments in transport will more and more require complex
analyses of the trade-offs betwgen competing modes. The Government recognizes
this need and is giving increasing atteittion to the development of its planning
capacity in this sector. The Planning tnit of Comworks, established in 1970,
has primary resDonsibility for transport planning- its staff consists of four
engineers and an economist, three of whom are provided by the Canadian Inter-
national Development Agency (CIDA). Due to its limited staffing, the Unit has
tended to provide ad hoc support rather than systematic sectoral planning, but
the Government intends to strengthen the Unit's capacity to enable it to pro-
vide ectoral economic analysis and to coordinate transport planning more
fuiLy with the needs of other sectors by recruiting more staff and extending
its ditties and powers.
2.12      The railway historically enjoyed protection from road competition
through the Government's licensing and pricing policies. The East Africa
Transport Survey (1969) financed by the United Nations Development Programme
with -he Bank as executing agency, recommended that restrictive road licensing
practices and differential railway tariffs be abolished and that the EARC be
given authority to alter its rates and methods of operation so as to have the
commercial flexibility required to meet road competition. Under the terms of
the 1970 Bank loan (674-EA) to the EARC, the Governments of Tanzania, Kenya
and Uganda agreed to implement these recommendations. The railway has since
made good use of its new freedom to reduce tariffs to meet road competition,
but the EAC has allowed virtually no increases in charges, even though the
railway has documented a strong case for such increases, based on traffic
costing and tariff studies undertaken by a CIDA-financed team. The tariff
issue, however, is now only one of a range of problems affecting the railway's
financial and operational soundness.
2.13      In Tanzania, the question of liberalizing the road transport industry
has been approached cautiously by the Government which believes that this may
confl4ct with its policy of socialism and state control of important services.
In 1969, the National Transport Corporation was established to develop "land,
sea and inland waterways and air" transportation means for passengers and
goods. So far, four subsidiaries have been formed: (i) the Dar es Salaam
Motor Transport Company, Ltd. which provides bus service within Dar es Salaam
and between the capital and other urban centers; (ii) the Zambia-Tanzania
Road Services Company (jointly owned with Zambia and Fiat of Italy) which
provides transport for Zambia exports and imports; (iii) the National Road
Haulage Company, Ltd. (NR{C) which provides long-distance freight haulage
within the country: and (iv) the Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line, Ltd., which
provides service between the ports of Dar es Salaam and Mtwara. Establish-
ment rf a national airline is also contemplated.
2.14      The long-term objective is for NRHC to have main responsibility for
long-distance road transport, while encouraging regional and interregional
trans')ort cooperatives for the shorter hauls. Licenses are issued freely to
priva-e carriers hauling their own goods, but licenses to carriers offering
for--htre transport are restricted, with the NE.C and transport cooperatives
given first priority. Also, as of March 1974, haulage rates have been\re-
structured and maximum rates established for both long-distance and local trips



-6-
which, however, do not appear tc, cover total operating costs. These measures
are pioving a disincentive to irdependent truckers, and a serious shortage of
trucking capacity, particularly for short hauls, has developed (para. 3.06).
3. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      Of the approximately 33,400 km of roads (Table 1), only about 2,600
km (87-) are paved. and 1,100 km (3%) ale engineered gravel. The remainder
are urengineered earth and gravel roads suitable only for dry-weather move-
ments, Roads classified as either trunk roads (6,008 km) or territorial
main roads (1,155 km) make up the primary system linking the country's 20
regional capitals with each other and with neighboring countries. They vary
in standard from two-lane paved roads to unimproved earth tracks. Roads
classified as local main roads (9,242 km) make up the secondary system link-
ing other centers of economic acAvity with the primary network, while those
classified as regional roads (about 17,000 km) form the tertiary system.
B. Traffic Growt:h and Characteristics
3.02      The pattern of traffic flow on the country's road network has been
estab:ished from regular counts ftaken by Comworks' Planning Unit, supplemented
by dat:a from its regional offices and from various consultants' studies.
Traff-.c volumes are generally low, averaging well under 50 vpd on mosi: roads.
.Uighest traffic volumes are found on the Tan-Zam highway (varying from 700 vpd
near Dar es Salaam to about 200 vpd at the Zambia border) and on other roads
radiating from the country's ports (100-500 vpd). Traffic overall has been
growing at 3-4% per annum.
3.03      In 1972, there were abcut 94,000 vehicles in circulation (Table 2)
or one motor vehicle per 145 inhabitants as compared to Kenya with about one
vehicle per 80 inhabitants.  Growth of the vehicle fleet has slowed in recent
years dropping from an average growth rate of 8.9% p.a. during the 1962--66
perio( to only 3.5% p.a. in 1970-72, with the Government-owned vehicle fleet
growilg three times as fast as the privately-owned fleet.  In 1972, passenger
cars -epresented about 40% of the privately owned vehicle fleet; light commer-
cial rehicles, about i77- and heavy vehicles and btuses, about 22%. Since
1973, annual licensing of vehicles 'ns been discontinued because of the high
cost *f collecting fees.  During negotiations, the Government confirmed that
it wi I collect data on traffic fl'ows and maintain up to-date records of
vehicLes as necessary for sound tzansport planning.
3.04      In public hauiage, the vast majority (96%) of licensed operators
are s-ill1, independent carriers, 1,Jwith one to four vehicles, who together
accouit for 68% of the cormnercial trucking f'eet.  Cooperative transport
compa'iies account for about 18% o- the remaining trucking capacity, and
Goveriment-owned compar-ies, aDout 14%.



-7-
3.05      Most trucks are of 6-ton capacity, but in recent years there has
been E trend toward larger and heavier trucks and buses. Vehicles with
capacities of 30 tons or Twre and with single axle-loads of well over the
18,000 lb (8,200 kg) legal limit have appeared in significant numbers on the
Tan-Zem highway and along the coastal road between Chalinze and the Kenya
border. The roads, not built to handle such heavy loads, have begun to
suffer from overloading. The Government, following recent discussions with
the Association on the matter, has repaired its weighbridges and is taking
steps to enforce its regulations on axle loading. During negotiations, the
Goverrment confirmed that vehicle weight regulations will be rigorously
enforced.
3.06      Due to Government policies regulating the industrv (para. 2.14) in-
depeneent carriers are discontinuing their operations and truck renewal.
While sufficient capacity presently exists to meet the increasing demand for
long-distance haulage, local movements are being hampered by a shortage of
carriers who apparently do not find the activity profitable.  This io tvr) is
hampering agricultural activity since crops sometimes spoil while awaitirr
transport. In view of the repercussions being felt in other sectors of the
econony, the project includes the financing of expert assistance to review
the functioning of the road transport industry and Government regulations
affecting it and to recommend ways of improving the situation (para. 4.12).
C. Administration
3.07      Until very recently, Comworks had, among its many functions, respon-
sibility for all roads in the country. Several divisions within the Ministry
dealt with the various aspects of highway administration: the Planning Unit
established priorities among road projects; the Roads and Aerodromes Divis-on
designed, constructed and maintained the network; the Materials Laboratory
did all soils and materials testing; and the Electrical and Mechanical
Division maintained and renewed the equipment fleet. Field operations
were carried out through the Ministry's 17 regional offices. 1/ The lines
of authority within Comworks, however, were often unclear with the result,
for instance, that road maintenance equipment was not always available wher.
needed by the work crews and priorities set at headquarters were sometimes
not followed.  Also, the fact that these units served all of Comworks tent
to dilute the time devoted to roads, especially when an extreme staffing
shortage developed.
3.08      The Government has recently decided to reorganize the adrnlnst--.-
tion Df roads within Corworks and, in line with its decentralization po_: y,
to allocate more responsibility to the regions. The proposed organizat-.oa has
1/   Each of three regional offices presently serves two regions:  that d    ;
'4twara serves both Mtwara and Lindi regions:- Dar es Salaam serves X se
T)ar es Salaam and Coast regions, and Mbeya serves both Mbeya and `Ialcwa
regions.



evolved from both the recommendations of the highway maintenance and organiza-
tion study carried out by Lyon Associates Inc. in 1971-72 and those of the
consultants McKinsey and Company, Inc. (U.K.) who were engaged specifically to
review the implications of decen:ralization on the functions of Comworks.
Under the reorganization, all road-related activities within Comworks (except
the road transport industry) will come under the jurisdiction of a nevw Roads
Division (see Chart), which will have responsibility for planning, bucgetary
controls, execution of works and administration of all primary roads. Comworks
will also give overall guidance and assistance to the regional administration
which will take over similar responsibilities for secondary and tertiary roads.
Field operatiDns will continue to be carried out through the regional offices,
each headed by a Regional Engineer under a Regional Development Director.
Implementation of the reorganization is just being initiated and it is too
early to judge its effectiveness. The recommended reorganization of Co=works
appears to be suitable for undertaking its functions and for project execution.
However, during negotiations, the Government agreed to discuss the actual
implementation with the Association to see whether any adjustments might be
required in the event that the project be adversely affected.
3.09      One of the major constraints on Comworks' highway activities has
been the shortage of qualified staff both at headquarters and in the regions:
only 16 of the existing 63 highway engineering posts are presently filled, and
over two-thirds of the approximately 180 technical positions (inspectors,
foremen, laboratory assistants, etc.) remain vacant. The Government has recent-
ly recruited 35 engineers from India with erperience in highway administration
and maintenance who are scheduled to take up their posts before the end of
1974. The Government is also financing the studies of a number of Tanzanian
students to overcome the shortage in the longer term: some 90 students are
presently enrolled in engineering courses at Nairobi University and the Poly-
technic in Nairobi and another 60 have entered Dar es Salaam University where
an engineering curriculum was recently inaugurated. Provided the Government
can attract these students to the civil service upon graduation, the situation
should be greatly alleviated within five to ten years.
D. Expenditures and Financing
3.10      During the last decade, the Government has made substantial invest-
ments in the highway sector. Total expenditure on roads rose from T Sh 66
million (US$9.2 million equivalent) in 1965/66 to a peak of T Sh 246 million
(US$34.5 million equivalent) in 1968/69 (Table 3). This significant increase
reflects both the bold highway construction and improvement program undertaken
by the Government, particularly the first and second highway projects financed
by the Bank Group, and the increased maintenance required on the Tan-Zam high-
way prior to its reconstruction necessitated by the large volumes of Zambian
transit traffic since 1966. Expenditures have averaged T Sh 200 million (US$28
million) per annum during the 1970--72 period, the decline reflecting completion
of construction under the first highway project and reduction of maintenance
expenditures on the Tan-Zam highway as reconstruction progressed.



- 9 -
3.11      Highway investments are financed from the Government's general bud-
get. To the extent funds are available, allocations for minor works are based
on per kilometer estimates prepared by Comworks. For major construction, esti-
mates are based on detailed engineering.  Annual maintenance estimates have
been based upon set rates which range between US$140 and US$420 per kilometer
depending on the road classification and taking no account of traffic; these
rates are too low for adequate maintenance of the road network. Moreover, the
Ministry has, during the past few years, been unable to utilize fully even the
available funds because of its manpower constraints. Comworks is now develop-
ing a more realistic method for estimating maintenance requirements, based
on traffic, surface type, terrain and availability of materials.
3.12      Road users contribtute to general revenues in several ways.  Taxes
on vehicle ownership and use are levied through import duties, vehicle regis-
tration charges, fuel taxes and, until 1973 when they were discontinued,
annual vehicle license fees. Annual revenues collected from road users have
been ,about equal to expenditures on roads, with such revenues amounting to
about US$27.8 million equivalent in 1971/72 and expenditures totalling about
USè29.15 million in that vear. Road users' charges are expected to continue
covering recurrent higlhway costs as well as a substantial portion of capital
expenditures.
E. Planning
3.13      Highway investments, like those in other sectors, are planned by
the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development Planning on the basis of
proposals put forward by Comworks and, in accordance with the recent decen-
tralization policy, those made by the District Councils after review by the
Prime Minister's Office. The second Five--Year Development Plan 1969/74
(extended to 1975 to allow completion of outstanding works) allocates a total
of about US$114 million equivalent to roads, about US$70 million of which
was for the Tan-Zam highway.  The third Five-Year Development Plan 1975/80 is
being prepared, and highways are expected to account for a significant propor-
tion of the total budget with emphasis on improving roads to serve agricul-
ture development, on continuing the extension and improvement of the primary
road network and on improving highway maintenance. Studies are underway for
the improvement of tertiary roads serving agricultural activity in the
Kilimanjaro, Morogoro (Kilombero Valley), and Mwanza (Ceita) regions and for
the possible construction or improvement of several primary and secondary routes.
F. Engineering and Construction
3.14      Comworks carries out minor road and bridge designs using its own
staff but uses consultants to prepare detailed engineering of major projects.
However, in line with its policy of self reliance, the Government has decided
to expand the design capacity of the National Estates and Designing Company,
Ltd., a state-owned consulting firm, to take over gradually all design functions.



- 10 --
3.15      Comworks uses its own Eorces for carrying out small construction
works and is developing its capability in this area through betterment units
now being managed and supervised by consultants who are training local staff.
Six such units - two established under the third highway project (Credit
265-TA) and four under the smallholder tea development project (Credit 287-TA)
- are currently improving about 775 km of feeder roads. Major construction
works are put to contract after competitive bidding and are 3upervised by
consultants. Only a few small local construction firms are active in
Tanzania; most are engaged in building construction and are not equipped for
road works. The Government, however, is anxious to develop a local construc-
tion firm which can handle large projects. To this end, it intends to expand
the construction capacity of Mwananchi Engineering and Contracting Company,
Ltd., a state-owned firm.
G. Maintenance
3.16      Since 1970, when Comwoi-ks took over responsibility for 17,000 km of
unmaintained rural roads and los-, soon afterwards, a considerable number of
expatriate staff, road maintenance has deteriorated: the few technical staff
remaining have found it increasingly difficult to cope with the Ministry's
greatly increased workload. Whi:Le CIDA has provided experts to advise Comworks
on road maintenance methods, fieLd activities have been limited. Resources,
both human and financial, have had to be spread too thinly, and a substantial
backlog of maintenance has developed.
3.17      The Government is trying to overcome the staff shortage by engaging
qualified personnel either local:y or abroad, but with limited success. Na-
tionals with adequate engineering or technical background are still in short
supply and it is proving increasi'ngly difficult to retain expatriate staff.
While recognizing that it must rely on external technical assistance in the
short--term, the Government is making a serious effort to train nationals in
engineering and technical fields as indicated in para. 3.09. For the train-
ing of technical personnel such as foremen, inspectors, mechanics, etc., the
Government is constructing a tra-.ning center at Morogoro. When completed in
mid-1974, the school will offer courses for as many as 120 students at a time.
3.18      The Plant and Equipment: Section of the new Roads Division is respon-
sible for maintenance of the Division's equipment and vehicles. It has taken
over the former Electrical and Mechanical Division's central workshop at Moro-
goro and repair facilities in each of the regions. The central and regional
workshops are inadequately equipped, however, consisting in most instances
of little more than a cleared area, a small open shed and few tools. Spare
parts are in short supply and equipment sits for months awaiting even minor
repair. The road maintenance equipment fleet has not been kept in good repair
and the shortage of equipment ha, been a considerable handicap to the road main-
tenance crews.
3.19      The project is designeci to overcome these deficiencies by providing
staffing and training support, equipment and improved workshop facilities.



- 11 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project comprises the first stage of the Government's program to
impro;e the maintenance of primary roads throughout the country. This first
stage will provide for the two areas with the most urgent needs of the four
into which the country has been divided. The two areas cover ten regions and
include about 3,300 km of primary roads, among the most highly trafficked roads
in the country. A second stage extending to the rest of the country will
follow when staff have been trained under the first stage and lessons have been
learned of the best ways to maintain roads in Tanzania. However, this first
stage will have an impact on the remainder of the country's road network in
that road maintenance personnel from all over the country will profit from
the training program and existing resources, particularly equipment, will be
released for roads not covered by the project.
4.02      The first stage of the maintenance program is to be implemented over
a four-year period and includes the following:
(a) the maintenance and, where necessary, rehabilitation of
about 3,300 km of primary roads-,
(b) the construction and/or improvement of road maintenance
camps, workshops and offices;
(c) the purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, tools and materials;
(d) the training of maintenance personnel; and
(e) technical assistance to Comworks.
The project also includes a review of the road transport industry in Tanzania.
The First Stage Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
4.03      Over the project period, routine and periodic maintenance of the
primary roads in Areas I and IV will be gradually improved to an adequate
level. About 1,700 km of the roads are-paved 1/ and, while most are in satis-
factcry condition, periodic maintenance has been neglected and some of the
older roads require resealing. Deterioration of the-gravel and earth roads
(1,600 km) has been more pronounced; about 1,160 km need to be rehabilitated
if they are to provide a satisfactory level of service. Rehabilitation under
the project will consist of (i) restoration of the shape of the road surface
through grading and minor earth works; (ii) improved drainage through the
provision of culverts and clearing of ditches; and (iii) regravelling. Rou-
tine maintenance will be carried out by 30 section crews to be established
under the project, each responsible for about 110 km of road; rehabilitation
works and resealing will be done by six specialized crews (Table 4).
1/   Of which about 200 km are being paved under Credit 265-TA.



- 12 -
Construction of Road Camps, Workshops and Offices
4.04      Each of the road maintenance section crews will be located or the
"-^-' sction for which it is responsible.  Seven will be based at regional
hea_..quarters and 23 at road camps located outside a town. These 23 road camps
will he constructed under the project; each camp will include housing for the
workeis and their families, facilities for the daily servicing of equipment
assigned to the crews, small offices, and stores for tools and essential
materials.
4.05      Existing Corworks' meclanical workshops and offices in the regions
are snail, poorly constructed anc. equipped and, as mentioned in paragraph 3.18,
do not provide adequate shelter for equipment awaiting repair. They need to
be exTanded and improved. Under the project, the existing central workshop
at Morogoro will be renovated; it will provide major repairs and overhaul of
all ecuipment serving Area I, serve as the regional workshop for the Morogoro
Regior, and continue to be the central workshop for areas not yet equipped
with their own.  The Mbeya workshop will be upgraded to provide similar service
in ArEa IV. A new regional workshop will be constructed at Dar es Salaam to
serve Dar es Salaam and Coast Regions. Other regional workshops in the project
areas will be renovated and expanded to provide adequate facilities for the
routire servicing of equipment, including that allocated to the primary road
secticn crews and to the other road maintenance crews working in the region.
Road Yaintenance and Workshop Equip ment
4.06      Because of inadequate maintenance and renewal, road maintenance
equipment and materials are in short supply. Of the 655 pieces of equipment
inventoried by Lyon in 1971, some 50% were found to be over ten years old and
beyonc. economic repair. Comworks estimates that all existing equipment will
have to be replaced within at most five years and has therefore decided to
furnish the road maintenance crews to be established in the two areas covered
by the project with new equipment and to allocate existing equipment for
maintaining other roads. In this way, all the roads in the country will receive
better maintenance than at presen:. During negotiations the Government con-
firmer! that existing salvageable equipment will be rehabilitated and be used
to ma:-ntain the non-project roads. The road maintenance equipment to De
purchased (Table 5) is based on Lron's recommendations for equipping the road
sectic'n and specialized crews, mo("ified somewhat by Comworks and the Associa-
tion.  The equipment list takes into account the number of annual working days
and tie output of equiipment under average conditions in Tanzania.
4.07      WorkshoD equipment and toois are inadequate to service existing
road rIaintenance equ±pment and woxld certainly not be sufficient to service
the e:cpanded fleet being proposed. The project therefore provides supplemen-
tary (quipment and tools for the two area workshops at Morogoro and Mbeya and
for o'her regional workshops, special crews, and road camps included in the
project. The equipment list presertly proposed is based on Lyon's recommenda-
tions however, some mocdifcations may be required in view of the time which
has e:apsed since the consultants made their assessment, and the Government
is therefore reviewing the propose1 list and will discuss the specific list
of equipment to be procured with tAe Association prior to purchase. These
modif: cations will not le.a-d  an _.cea ise in zosts.



- 13 -
4.08      The project also provides an initial stock of spare parts to keep
the new maintenance and workshop equipment in working order and materials
such as bitumen, fuel, explosives and steel needed for the rehabilitation and
resealing works.
Training and Technical Assistance (Table 6 and Annex 1)
4.09      As mentioned in paragraph 3.17, the Government is constructing a
center at Morogoro for the training o-T road maintenance technical personnel
such as drivers, equipment operators, mechanics, foremen and inspectors, etc.
This effort will be supported under the project by providing training experts
and aids. Six such experts, one a training coordinator, will be employed for
a pericd of 2-1/2 to 3 years. They will develop specific courses of instruction,
prepare curricula, and help Government staff teach the courses to be offered
which will include on-the-job training as well as classroom instruction. Their
employment will be coordinated with the equipment purchases so that training
can begin prior to the arrival of the new equipment. The first group of stu-
dents has already been selected and some existing equipment has been set aside
for training purposes.
4.10      In addition to the technical assistance to be provided for the
Morogoro Training Center, the project will provide fifteen experts to help
alleviate the acute staffing shortage in the Roads Division of Comworks and
to assist with project implementation. Six of the experts will assist at
headquarters where they will advise staff in managerial positions, prepare
guidelines and programs for mainteniance activities, introduce adequate cost-
accounting procedures, prepare specifications and bidding documents for the
purchase of project equipment and spare parts and assist in prequalifying
suppliers and evaluating bids. The other nine experts will be involved in
field activities: two helping to supervise road maintenance crews and seven
helping manage workshops.   With the assistance of these experts, Conworks
is capable of managing the maintenance program.
4.11      The technical assistance to be provided is crucial to the progress
and success of the project. During negotiations, the Government agreed that
suitably qualified experts will be employed under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association and in accordance with an agreed time schedule.
If the project is to progress on schedule, the most important experts - i.e.,
the maintenance management engineer, maintenance administrator, training
coordinator and equipment specialist - should arrive in Tanzania by January
1975 and the other experts, by June of that year. The Government is trying to
obtain this assistance through bilateral aid and, if successful, there may be
some savings under the credit; if this attempt fails, it will proceed to
direct recruitment.  To assure that gains made under the first stage of .a-
mainteniance program continue beyond the project period, the Government aLso
agreed during negotiations that Tanzanian counterparts will be provided rcr
those experts as shall be mutually agreed by the Government and the Association.



-  4-
Review  f the Road Transport industry
4.12      The project includes the financing of expert services for a total
of six man-months to review the road transport industry of Tanzania and make
recommendations as to pricing and licensing p.1licies and other regulations
which bear upon it, giving due regard to the ;ocial and political framework
in whicq the industry is expected t) operate.  The draft .erms of reference
(Annex 2) for this technical assistance were agreed during negotiations, and
the Government agreed that upon receipt of the expert's report, it will
discuss the recommendations made with the Association with a view to determin-
ing what further action is necessary.
B. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.13      The total. capital cost of the project is estimated at about US$12.5
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$10.2 million or 82%. Detailed
costs (in January 1974 prices) are 3hown in Table 7 and summarized as follows:
T Sh miLlion                  US$ million ----- Ö
Local    Fore:gn  Total       Local   Foreign  Total    Foreign
1. Road maintenance
equipment, vehicles
and spare parts    1.28        25.62  26.90        0.18     3.59    3.77        95%
2. Workshop equipment
and tools           0.24        4.75   4.99        0.03     0.67    0.70        95%
3. Workshops, offices
and road camps      5.45        0.96   6.41        0.76     0.14    0.90        15%
4. Materials             2.93        6.82   9.75       0.41      0.95    1.36       70%
5. Training aids        0.34        1.36   1.70        0.05      0.19    0.24       80%
6. Technical
assistance          0.82       16.43  17.25        0.11     2.30    2.41        95%
7. Contingencies
Physical:          0.89        1.39   2.28        0.13     0.19    0.32
Price:             4.03       15.64  19.67        0.58     2.17    2.75
4.92      17.03  21.95        0.71      2.36    3.07
Total            15.98       72.97  88.95 /1   2.25    10.20   12.45 /1   82%
/1   Taxes and cluties represent less than 1% of total project costs.



-- 15 -
4.14      The cost estimates for road maintenance and workshop equipment are
based cn quotations by suppliers in Tanzania. The estimated costs of materials
for building construction and for road maintenance are based upon Comworks'
recent experience in this field, The cost of technical assistance is based on
average man-month expenditures by CIDA for experts currently assigned to
Comworks and are in accord with p-esent international market conditions. A
physical contingency allowance of 10% has been provided for those items subject
to quantity variation. Contingencies for price escalation throughout the proj-
ect execution period have been estimated on the following basis: for equip-
ment, 14% in 1974/75, 11% in 1975/76 and 7.5% in 1976/77 and 1977/78; for
civil works and materials, 18%, 15%, and 12%; and for technical assistance,
8% per annum.
4.15      IDA vill finance the foreign exchange component of the capital
costs of the project, in total estimated to be about US$10.2 million. In
addition to financing the remaining capital costs of the project (about
US$2.3 million), the Government will finance all recurrent expenditures
needed to carry out the maintenance program, expected to amount to US$7.6
million equivalent over the four-year project period (Table 7) and will provide
promptly as needed facilities, services and other resources required. Upon
completion of the project, sufficient budgeta.y allocations will be provided
to assure continued maintenance of the project roads.
C. Disbursements
4.16      Credit funds will be disbursed on tie following basis:
(a)  c.i.f. costs (port of entry) of equipment, vehicles, spare parts,
and training aids;
(b) 70% of expenditures for imported road building materials
(bitumen, fuel, explosives, steel, etc.) which represents the
estimated foreign exchange component thereof;
(c) 15% of building construction which represents the estimated
foreign exchange component thereof; and
(d) foreign exchange cost of technical assistance.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in Table 8. Any surplus funds
remaining in the credit account upon completion of the project may be used,
in agreement with the Association, for additional equipment and materials or
to start extending the program to the other areas of the country.



- 16 -
D. lixecution
4.17      As presently envisaged, the first ;tage of the maintenance program
is expected to take four years, f'om mid-1974 to mid-1978, on the basis that
the Government recruits suitable zechnical assistance so that certain key
members of the technical assistance team can arrive in Tanzania by early 1975
(see Annex 3).  The first year wiLl be largely devoted to preparing tender
documents, procuring equipment and outlining a training program, with a start
also being made in building road camps. The training program and workshop
construction will begin the second year and gradually, as personnel are
trained, camps are built and new equipment arrives, the 30 section crews will
be established. The special crews will begin operating before the end of the
second year with the regraveling and resealing crews, each completing about
250 km annually. By the end of the fourth year, section crews should be well
established along the entire primary network of Areas I and IV and the
special crews will have completed the backlog of rehabilitation -nd -espAling;
they will then be used for regular periodic maintenance. The implementation
schiedule for the program was discussed with the Government during credit
ne,otiations, at which time the Government agreed that it will review the
specifics of the program with the Association annually.
4.18      Comworks, assisted by thLe technical experts to be provided, will
be responsible for the execution of the project. Equipment, materials and
other items exceeding USS50,000 ir. value will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines
wit'a separate contracts for eaclh type or group of similar types of equip-
ment. The contracts will provide for delivery of 20% of the equipment in
1975/76 and 30% in 1976/77, and will be awarded on the basis of the lowest
evaluated bids. In the evaluatior. of bids, local manufacturers will be
allowed a preference margin of 152 or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. The suppliers
will be required to provide an adequate organization and maintain a reasonable
inventory of spare parts in Tanzania. Regional workshops, offices and road
canps, plans for which will be agreed with the Association, will be simple
and mostly of low standard construction, located in several places in the
country aind unlikely to attract international competition. They will be
built by local contractors after competitive bidding or, if the Association
should so agree, by force account.  Purchiase of materials and other items
not exceeding US$50,000 will be made in accordance withi normal Government
procelures which are acceptable to the Association.
5. ECONOMTIC EVALUATION
5.>l      Tl,i objective of the proposed project is to ensure that economic
growtlt is nlot lhindered by deterioration of the road network.  Proper main-
tenan:e of roads is essential in Tanzania wlhere upgrading is often not justi-
fied >ecause of low traffic levels an(d yet roads provide the only link for
muchl Df thie widely scaLtered populaition.  About 90% of the population lives
in rLral areas anld has to rely on roads not only to rrarket production but
also to reach liealth .-nd education facilities and other government services.



- 17 -
Thile the present project is directed specifically to primary roads rather
than to improving access to rural areas, it will increasingly free existing
resources for maintenance of the less trafficked secondary routes while also
improving long distance comnunications for small towns and layir.g the founda-
tion for improved maintenance operations from which all roads in the country
will benefit.
5.02      Only primary roads are included in this project for several
reaf;or.s: (i) the scarcity of funds and qualified staff make it impossible
to improve maintenance simultaneously over the whole network so it was
decided to concentrate first on those roads which yield the highest economic
returrs wien improved: and (ii) considerable investments have already been
made on these roads which would be lost without proper maintenance. *The
first stage of the road maintenance program was defined by Comworks and
the Association after determining the priorities among the four areas into
which the country had been divided. Information on road conditions and
traffic levels was derived from the inventories made by Lyon Associates, Inc.
in 1971, updated by Comworks in 1973. On the basis of net benefits which
can be expected after rehabilitation and proper maintenance in each area,
Area I was found to have the highest priority, followed by Areas IV. II and
III.
5.03      Data concerning the roads located in Areas I and IV on which the
econoric evaluation of the project is based are given in Table 9. As can
be seen, traffic volumes vary greatly from region to region. Paved roads
in the Coast Region are the most heavily trafficked, carrying volumes of
225-7C0 vpd though traffic drops sharply (to 50 vpd) where the southern
coastal road becomes a mere track, and traffic is lightest in the Rukcwa
'egior (10-20 vpd) where the few roads are no more than earth trac&s. Traffic
composition throughout the project area varies, with the proportion of heavy
vehicles increasing as total traffic decreases. Projected growth rates are
3.4% per annum.
5.04      The main benefits expected to accrue to the project are savings
in vehicle operating costs for projected traffic. In order to quantify
benefits, operating costs were estimated for different types of vehicles on
paved, gravel and earth roads in good and varying lesser degrees ofL cond-
tion. depending on maintenance input.  Operating costs with optimum mair_t-
nance are shown in Table 10. Unit user costs without the project. increas.i.n
over time because of further deterioration of the roads, were compared w_th
those expected on roads improved to varying degrees. The initial rehabili-
tatior works--where applicable--produce a considerable reduct'or. in veiL-'  e
operating costs wihich remain at approximately the same level toereafter with
proper maintenance.  The resulting unit benefits, increasing over the eight
year economic life of the project (based on the expected life of equipment
to be purchased), were then applied to the increasing traffic vo1=u-.s af zfa
same period to generate the total benefits considered in the economic ovalua--
tion.  Many of these benefits are in the form of decreased fuel costs ard, o-
this basis, the project is expected to lead to a saving in foreign exchange to
Tanzania of abouit T Sh 1.0 million (US$0.15 m;illion) in 1977, increasing .o
about T Sh 7.0 million (US$1.0 million) 4n 1983 at fuel prices in Tanzania
in December 1973.



- 18 -
5.05      Project costs and benefits, net of taxes and duties, have been com-
pared with the alternative of continuing the present inadequate maintenance
sfort.  On this basis, the project yields an economic return of 22%, a first
year benefit of 16% and a bene:it-cost ratio, at a discount rate of 10%, of
1.42:1 (Table 11). If actual costs should exceed the estimates by 10% and
benefits be reduced by 10%, thet economic return would still be a satisfactory
15,-.
6. ACTION TAKEN A'D RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The following are the principal matters which were agreed with the
Government during credit negotiations:
(a) The effect of the recrganization of Comworks on the project
will be discussed with the Association (para. 3.08).
(b) Existing salvageable equipment will be rehabilitated and used
for the maintenance of roads not included in the project
(para. 4.06).
(c) Specific lists of workshop equipment will be agreed with the
Association prior to purchase (para. 4.07).
(d) Technical assistance to Comworks will be provided on an agreed
time schedule and employed under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association and counterparts will be assigned
to those experts as slhall be mutually agreed by the Government
and the Association (para. 4.11).
(e) A review of the road transport industry of Tanzania will be
undertaken by an expert employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and the recommendations re-
sulting from the review will be discussed with the Associa-
tion (para. 4.12).
6.02.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.2 million equiva-
lent to the Government of Tanzaria.
July 19, 1974



TABLE 1
TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MUINTERANCE PROJECT
Hlghway Network
(km)
A. Network Maintained by Comworks by Type
Year                          Bitumen     Gravel        Earth       Total
1964                           1,303        1,007       13,956     16,266
1965                           1,282          933       14,006     16,281
1966                           1,348        1,277       13,631     16,256
1967                           1,451        1,000       13,871     16,322
1968                           1,691        1,079       13,924     16,694
1969                           1,888        1,034       13,808     16,730
1970                           2,234        1,113       30,53W   33,881
1971                           2,625        4,909Y    25,871       33,405
1972                           2,625        4,909       25,871     33,405
1973                           2,625        4,909       25,871      33,405
B.  Total Network in 1973 by Administrative Classification
Primary          Secondary     Tertiary
Trunk    Territorial     Local       Regional
Main         Main                     Total
Bitumen      2,173         88          364                     2,625
Gravel         705        493        3,711           -         4,909
Earth        3,130        574        5,167        17,000      25,871
TOTAL        6,008      1,155        9,242        17,000      33,405
1/ Prior to 1970, 17,000 km of these roads were maintained by the
district councils.
j  Increase since 1971 is due to reclassification of unimproved gravel
roads with engineered gravel roads rather than to construction.
Source: Comworks, December 1973
July 1974



TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet
Annual Growth
Rate (%)
12196              1962                                                     1962  1966  1970
A.  Privately-owned Vehicles
Passenger cars                         19,048   21,419   22,854   22,985   25,877   28,748   26,809   29,783   33,078   33,261   34,141            8.o   6.3   1.6
Light commercial vehicles                7,755    8,046    8,454    8,557    9,884   11,213   10,648   12,205   14,171   14,280   14,784           6.3   9.4   2.1
Trucks                                  6,386    6,779    7,301    7,215    9,004   10,461   10,137   11,578   13,570   13,821   14,849            9.0  10.8   4.6
Buses                                    1,526    1,687    1,887    2,041    2,354    2,613    2,473    2,969    3,486    3,521    3,816    11.4  10.3   4.6
Motorcycles                              4,495    4,783    5,221    5,415    6,449    7,293    6,970    7.989    9.306    9 3AQ    in flo? 079     0           A   14 A
Other.2.316    1101    3.803    3.971    4,557   5.792    4.434    53.91    7.096    7.151    7.921    18.4  U .7   5.4
Subtotal                           41,526   45,815   49,520   50,184   58,125   66,120   61,471   70,463   80,707   81,430   85,583            7.6   8.5   3.0
B.   Government-owned Vehicles-I/             3,623    3,859    4,391    4,238    5,320    6,534    4,003    4,872    7,008    7,855    8,454    10.1   7.1   9.8
Total Vehicle Fleet               45,149   49,674   53,911   54,422   63,445   72,654   65,474   75335   87,715   89,285   94,037             8.9   8.4   3.5
I/ Seeming discrepancies for which no explanation could be obtained.
2/ Ambulances, bulldozers, cranes, fire engines, graders, tractors, trailers, etc.
3/ All types of vehicles.
Soure   1962-1968:  Tanzania, The Annual Economic Survey 1971
1969-1972: Central Registry of Motor Vehicles, December 1973
July 1974



TABLE 3
TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJBCT
Central Government Highway kpenditures
(T Sh million)
Fiscal Year       New ConstructionL!      Highway Maintenance        Total
1962                  24,0                     30.0                540
1963                  20.0                     28.0                48.0
1964                  20,0                     30.0                50.0
1965                  24,0                     28.0                52.0
1966                  29.1                     36.5                65.6
1967                  73.h                     51.3               124.7
1968                  67.6                     53.1               120.7
1969                 178,7                     67.4               246.1
1970                 143.6                     66.6               210.2
1971                 127.8                     50.8               178.6
1972                 135.3                     72.8               208.l
1/ Including foreign aid.
Source:  (OMWORKS, December 1973
July 1974



TABLE a
TANZML
HIGHWAY MAINTfLUCE PRFOJFCT
Composition of Section Crews anid Special Crews
A. Section Crews
Tavical Gravel Section Crew (x14)                          Typical Bitumen Section Crew (x16)
1 Motor grader (125 HiP)                                   1 Tipper truck (7 t)
1 Pick-up truck (3/i t)                                    1 Pick-up truck (3/4 t)
2 Tipper trucks (7 t)                                       1 Bitumen heater-sprayer (250 gal)
1 Tractor (70 HP)                                          i Bitumen preheater-storage (500 gal)
I Compactor, towed                                         1 Compactor, vibrating w/trailer (3/4 t)
1 Water tank                                               1 Tractor/loader (45 HP)
I Water pump                                               1 Rotary mower for above
B. Special Crews
Reeravel Crew                                        Special Gravei Crew (Rehabilitation)                   Crushinm  and Quarrvine Crew
1 Pick-up truck (3/4 t)                              1 Motor grades (125 HP)                               1 Crushing plant (primary & secondary crushers)
12 Tipper trucks (7 t)                                1 Bulldozer w/angle blade (180 HP)                     1 Bulldozer (180 HP)
1 Compactor, vibratirg towed                         1 Front-end lcader, wheeled (1.5 cu yd)               2 Front-end loaders (2.5 cu yd)
1 Compactor, towed                                   2 Compactors, towod                                   2 Compressors (250 cfm)
2 Tractors (70 ilP)                                  2 Tractors (7C HP)                                     1 Set air tools
1 Front-end loader, tracked (1.75 cu yd)             2 Rotary mowers for above                             4 Tipper trucks (7 t)
1 Water tank                                         o Tipper trucks (7 t)                                 2 Tipper trucks (10 t)
1 Water pump                                         1 Pick-up truc.c (3/4 t)                              1 Pick-up truck (3/4 t)
2 Trailers, B-bed w/electricity & water              2 Water tanks                                         i Tractor, 5th wheel tandem
1 Trailer, kitchen                                   1 Water pump                                          1 Tilt-tqp trailer (20 t)
1 Trailer, 2-man office                              2 Trailers, 8-bed w/electricity & water               2 Trailers, 8-bed w/electricity & water
1 Trailer, potable water                             1 Trailer, kit-hen                                     1 Trailer, kitchen
1 Trailer, 2-man office                               1 Trailer, 2-man office
1 Trailer, potable water                              1 Trailer, potable water
1 Pullgrader, iydraulic control
Bitumen Premix Crew                                  Special Bitume  Crew                                  Bridee and Culvert Crew
1 Bitumen premix plant, mobile (20-40 t/hr)          1 Bitumen heater-sprayer (1,000 gal)                  2 Concrete mixers
1 Tractor, 5th wheel tandem                          1 Bitumen preh-ater-storage (1,500 gal)               1 Water tank, trailer mounted (500 gal)
1 Bitumen heater-storage (3,000 gal)                 1 Chip spreades, towed                                1 Water pump (3 in)
1 Front-end loader, wheeled (1.5 cu yd)              2 Compactors, .elf-propelled                          2 Concrete vibrators
2 Tipper trucks (7 t)                                1 Front-end loeder, wheeled (1.5 cu yd)                1 Compressor (250 cim)
1 Pick-up truck (3/4 t)                              6 Tipper truck; (7 t)                                 2 Tipper trucks (7 t)
2 Trailers, 8-bed w/electricity & water              1 Pick-up truck (3/4 t)                               1 Pick-up truck (3/4 t)
1 Trailer, kitchen                                   2 Trailers, 8-bed w/electricity & water               2 Trailers, 8-bed w/electricity & water
1 Trailer, 2-man office                              1 Trailer, kitchen                                    1 Trailer, kitchen
1 Trailer, potable water                             1 Trailer, 2-cLn office                               1 Trailer, 2-man office
1 Trailer, potLble water                              1 Trailer, potable water
3 Wheelbarrows
C.  Arcillarv  iquipment
2 Low-loaders (30 t)         1 Front-end loader, wheeled (1.5 cu yd)
2 Low-loaders (20 t)         1 Front-end loader, tracked (1.75 cu yd)
2 Pulvi-nixers, towec        4 Long wheel base trucks (7 t)
2 Tractors (70 HP)           6 Tipper trucks (7 t)
21 Pick-up trucks (3/4 t)
Source:  Comworks, Proposals for Tanzania Trunk and Territorial Road Maintenance. July 1973
July 197k



TABLE 5
TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment to be Purchased
-- T Sh '000--------
Unit (cif)          Total
Type                            Nhmber         Cost         Foreign Cost
Air tools (set) for quarrying and crushing          1         275.o              275.0
Bitumen heater-sprayer (250 gal)                   16          24.0              384.o
Bitumen heater-sprayer (1,000 gal)                  1         171.0              171.0
Bitumen preheater-storage (500 gal)                 8          24.0              192.0
Bitumen preheater-storage (1,500 gal)               1          48.0               48.o
Bitumen preheater-storage (3,000 gal)               1          72.0               72.0
Bitumen premix plant (20-40 t/hr)                   1         528.0              528.0
Bulldozer (180 HP)                                  2         .578.0           1,156.0
Chip spreader, towed                                1          28.0               28.0
Compactor, self-propelled                           2         132.0              264.0
Compactor,towed                                    17          30.3              515.1
Compactor, vibrating w/trailer (3/4 t)             16          24.2              387.2
Compactor, vibrating towed                          1          77.0               77.0
Compressor (250 cfm)                                3          88.o              264.0
Concrete mixer                                      2          28.0               56.0
Concrete vibrator                                   2           5.0               10.0
Crushing plant (75-80 t/hr)                         1         858.0              858.0
Front-end loader, wheeled (1.5 cu yd)               4         215.6              862.4
Front-end loader, wheeled (2.5 cu yd)               2         297.c              594.0
Front-end loader, tracked (1.75 cu yd)              2         308.0              616.0
Long wheel base truck (7 t)                         4          48.C              192.0
Low-loader (20 t)                                   2         120.0              240.0
Low-loader (30 t)                                   2         312.C              624.0
Motor grader (125 HP)                              15         230.0            3,450.0
Pick-up truck (3/4 t)                              57          26.4            1,504.8
Pull grader, hydraulic control                      1           99.0              99.0
Pulvi-mixer, towed                                  2          33-C               66.o
Rotary mower                                       18           7.2              129.6
Tilt-top trailer (20 t)                             1          54.0               54.0
Tipper truck (7 t)                                 86          56.4            4,850.4
Tipper truck ( 10 t)                                2         108.C              216.0
Tractor/loader (45 HP)                             16          55.C              880.o
Tractor (70 HP)                                    20           94.5           1,890.0
Tractor, tandem axle drive                          2         192.0              384.0
Trailer, 8-bed w/electricity and water             12          36.o              432.0
Trailer, kitchen                                    6          48.0              288.0
Trailer, 2-man office                               6          36.c              216.0
Trailer, potable water                              6          14.4               86.4
Water tank, trailer mounted (500 gal)               1            9.0               9.0
Water tank, for mounting in tippers                17          15.6              265.2
Water pump (3 in)                                  17            2.4              40.8
Wheelbarrow                                         3            4.0              12.0
23,286.9
Spare parts (10%)                                                         2,328.7
TCTAL                                                             25,615.6
Source:   Comworks and mission estimates, December 1973.
July 1974



TABLE 6
TANZhNIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance to be Provided Comworks
A.  Morogoro Training School                   No.             Man-Months
Training Coordinator                       1                 36
Instructors                                5                150
B.  Headquarters
Maintenance Management Engineer            1                 36
(Team Leader)
Maintenance Administrator                  1                 36
(Cost accountant)
Equipment and Spares Specialist                              36
Special Projects Supervisor                1                 24
Premix Superintendent                      1                 24
Quarrying and Aggregate Crushing
Superintendent                           1                 24
T           ~~~170
C.   Field
Road Maintenance Supervisors               2                 60
3? pxstarviGa -and                       7                2 2
Maintenance Managers                    7                5
9               312
Total                           21                67
Source: Comworks, December 1973
Mission estimates, May 1971L
July 1974



TANZhAiIA
uIlGWAY 1AIN--lANCE PRDJLC?
Cap,tal and Recu-elnt roject Costs
(T Sh 000o)
1975/70                          1071/76                          1976/77                           0077/70                            Total
Local    Foreiga    Total        Local    Foreimn    Total        Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreigm      Total       Local    Foreizn      Total
A.  Cptal Costs
1. Road maintenance equipment,
vehicles, spare parts                          -           -          -        186.1    3,721.1   3,907.2    1,094.7  21,894.5  22,969.2            -          -          -        1,280.8   25,615.6  26,896.4
2.  Workshop  equipment and tools                     2.5        49.5     52.0        59.7    1.193.0   1,252.7        175.4   3,508 0    3,683.4         -          _                     237.6   4,750.5   4,988.1
3. Workahops, offices and roas camps                494.7        87.3    582.0    2,097.0        370.0   2,467.0    2,433.6       429.4   2,863.0       425.0        75.0    500.3)      5,550.3      961.7   6,412.0
4. Materials (Bitume., -uj, explosives, steel, et.) 5c5.0    1,365.0  1,950.0        780.0    1,820.0   2,600.0         780.0   1,820.0   2,60c.0       700.0    1,820.0   2,600.0       2,925.0   6,825.0   9,750.0
5. Training Aids                                     20.0        80.0    100.0         40.0      160.0      200.0       240.0     960.0   1,200.0        40.0       160.0    200.0         340.0   1,360.0   1,700.0
6. Technical Assistance
i) For implementing maintenance program          78.5    1,570.8  1,649.3         278.5    5,569.2    5,847.        300.0   6,000.0   6,300.0       150.0    3,000.0  3,150.0          807.0  16,140.0  16,947.0
ii) Study of road transport industry              14.3       285.6    299.9          -         -          -           -          -          -           -         -          -           15.3      285.6      299.9
7. Contingencies
Fhysical-
Items 2-5  (10%)                           110.3       158.3    268.6        297.7      355.3      652.0       362.9      671.7   1,034.6      124.4       205.4    329.8         895.3   1,389.7    2,285.0
Price:
Ite  1-2 snd 5a/                             1.7        10.0      11.7        59.9    i0,56.0   1,115.9        485.4   8,387.3   8,872.7        18.1        72.4      90.5        565.1   9,525.7  10,090.8
Items 3-4                                  l .07.0     143.8    250.8        849.7      646.8   1,496.5    1,549.9   1,054.7    2,634.6        809.2    1,272.9   2,082.1       3,315.8   3,148.2    6,464.o
Item 6        1/                             3.7        74.2      77.9        34.3      686.1      720..        63.9   1,278.3   1,342.2        46.5       930.0    976.5         148.4   2,968.6   3,117.0
Total Capital Costs                           1,417.7     3,824.5  5,242.2    4,682.9   15,576.5  20,259.4    7,465.8  46,033.9  53,519.7   2,393.2    7,535.7  9,928.9    15,979.6  72,970.6  88,950.2
B.  Recurrent Costs
1. Salary and wages, local staff                  3,486.0       -       3,486.0    6,603.0         -      6,603.0    6,603.0        -       6,603.0   6,603.0         -     6,603.0     23,295.0       -      23,295.0
2. Traines'allowanc.                                700.0       _         700.0    1,200.0        -       1,200.0    1,200.0        -       1,200.0   1,200.-               1,200.0      4,300.0       -       4,300.0
3. Office owrhead                                   200.0       -         200.0       300.0        -        aoo.o       400.0       -         400.0      400.0       -        400.0      1,300.0       -       1,300.0
4. Equipment operation                              60o.0    1,500.0  2,000.0         840.0    1,960.0   2,800.3    1,167.0   2,723.0   3,890.0   1,743.0         4,067.0  5,810.0       4,350.0  10,150.0  14,500.0
5. Contingencies
Physical,
Items 1-4 (10%)                            499.o       140.0    639.0        894.0      196.0   1,09o.2        937.0      272.0   1,209.0       994.0       407.0  1,401.0       3,324.0   1,015.0    4,39.0
Price,
4i                                          59o4       138.6    198.0        248.1      578.9      827.0       562.9   1,313.1   1,876.0   1,171.3        2,733.6  3,904.9       2,041.7    4,764.2   6,805.9
Total Recurrent Costs                         5,544.4     1,678.6  7,223.0   10,085.1    2,7345.9   12,20.0   10,869.9    4,308.1  15,128.0  12,111.3          7,207.6  19,318.9     38,610.7  15,929.2  54,539.9
GoND TOTAL                                    6,962.1     5,503.1  12,465.2   14,768.0   18,311.4  33,079.4   18,355.7  50,342.0  68,697.7   15,504.5   14,743.3  29,247.8    54,590.3  88,899.8  143,490.1
___                                                                    _              _                                             -     
I/ 1974/75 (14%); 1975/76 (11$); 1976/77 - 1977/78 (7.5%)
9/ 1974/75 (18%); 1975/76 (15%); 1976/77 - 1977/78 (12%)
I/ 8% p.a.
So-cc; Ministry of Communications end Works, DLecember 1973
Missisn estimates, March 1974
July 19711



TABLE 8
TANZ NIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                              Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                      at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1974/75
September 30, 1974
December 31, 1974
March 31, 1975                                                 200
June 30, 1975                                                  500
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                             800
December 31, 1975                                            1,200
March 31, 1976                                               1,700
June 30, 1976                                                2,200
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                           2,700
December 31, 1976                                            3,600
March 31, 1977                                               5,500
June 30, 1977                                                6,500
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                           7,000
December 31, 1977                                            8,200
March 31, 1978                                               9,400
June 30, 1978                                                9,700
1973/79
September 30, 1978                                          10,000
December 31, 1978                                           10,200
Source:  Mission estimates, May 1974
Ju'y 197L



TABLE 9
TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Inventory of Road Sections Included in the Project
Traffic
1/                   Surface               vpd   Growth
Region            Ratd Section              Km       e  Cond.  Terrain   1973  % pa,
Area I:
Dar es Salaam/
Coast       Segera-Chalinze                 94   Bit. AdeG. Flat          225   3.5
Dar es Salaam-Kibiti          135   Bit. Adeq. Flat          300   3.5
Kibiti-Nangurukuru            103   Earth V-Poor Flat         50   3.0
Dar es Salaam-Chalinze        108   Bit. Adeq.  Flat         700   4.5
Chalinze-Morogoro              38   Bit.  Adeq. Flat         350   3.0
Morogoro    Morogoro-Dodoma                 22   Bit.  Adeq.. Flat        200   3.0
I " tX               131   Grav. Poor   Flat        120   3.0
Chalinze-Morogoro               47   Bit. Adeq,  Flat        350   3.0
Morogoro-&icumi                120   Bit.  Adeq. Flat        275   3,0
Mikumi-Iringa                   77   Bit. Adeq.  Roll.        275   3.0
Tanga       Kenya Border-Tanga               B   Bit. Adeq. Flat          400   3.0
"   "t      "58   Grav, Poor   Flat                       14o   3.0
Tanga-Segera                    73   Bit. Adeq.  Flat        500   3.0
Segera-Chalinze                -78   Bit. Adeq.  Flat        225   3.5
Segera-Zarogwe                 21   Bit. Adeq. Roll,         300   3.5
Korogwe-Taveta                 85   Bit. Adeq,  Flat         200   3.8
Mtwara/    Kibiti-Nangurukuru               63   Earth V.Poor Flat         50   3.0
Lindi       Nangurukuru-Lindi              169   Grav. Poor   Flat         40   3.0
Lindi-Mingoyo                  25   Bit. ,Adeq. Flat         200   3.0
Mingoyo-Mtwara                 15   Bit.2/Adeq.  Flat        400   3.0
,       n                   66   Bit.2/Adeq.  Flat        100   3.0
Mingoyo-Masasi                118   Bit.2/Adeq.  Flat        14    3.5
Masasi-Tunduru                  95   Grav. Adeq.  Roll        60   3.5
Area IV
Iringa      Dodoma-Iringa                   31   Bit. Adeq.  Flat         100   3.0
If      It                   72   Grav. Poor   Flat         50   3.0
Iringa-Makaumbako             159   Bit. Adeq. Roll,         250   3.2
Makumbako-Mbeya                50   Bit. Adeq. RoLl.         275   3.9
Mikumi-Iringa                 104   Bit. Adeq.  Roll.        275   3.0
Songea-Njombe                  69   Gravy  Adeq. Roll.        40   3.5
Njombe-Makumbako               59   Grav. Poor   Flat         80   3.5
Mbeya       Makumbako-Mbeya                120   Bit. Adeq.  Roll.        275   4.0
hibeya-Tunduma                102   Bit. Adeq.  Roll.        200   4.0
Rukwa       Npanda-Luiche Bridge           140   Earth Poor   Roll.        20   3.0
1uiche Bridge-Zambia Border   95   Earth Poor   Roll.         10   3.0
Ruvuma      Masasi-Tunduru                  98   Grav. Adeq. Roll.         60   3.5
Tunduru-Bongea                266   Grav. Poor   Roll.        40   3.5
Songea-Wjombe                 191   Grav, Adeq.  RolL         40   3-5
Area I      Area IV        Total
-  '(T        (k)          -Thn
Bitumen            1,130         566          1,696
Gravel               453         755          1,208
Earth                166          235           401
Totals:     1,749        1,556          3,305Y
1/ Roads are listed under all regions through which they pass.
2 Being bituminized under Credit 265-TA.
J Practically all gravel and earth sections will require some rehabilitation.
Source: Lyon Associates, Inc., Tanzania Highway Maintenance and Organization,
August 1972.
Cormorks, December 1973
Mission Findings, December 1973
July 1974



TBLE 10
TANZANIA
HIGHWIAY NAITE3A1fCI PROJEC
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs on Roads in Good Condition /
T Sh/10 *veh-km
Cars     Pick-ups     Trucks     Buses
Flat Terrain
Bitumen                         23.07      33.82      101.77     119.37
Gravel                          29.25      43.66      158.04     181.74
'Earth                          39.83      62.14      277.05      304.68
Rolling Terrain
Bitumen                         23.46      34.68      102.07     120.63
Gravel                          29.67      44.63      164o79     184.22
Earth                           40o65      65.40      291.59     312.48
1J Net of taxes and duties.
Source:  Lyon Associates, Inc., Tanzania Highway Maintenance and
Organization, August 1972.
Mission estimates, December 1973.
July 1974



TABLE 11
TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENDdEE PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits of the
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (Areas I and IV)
------------------------ T Sh 000 --------------________
Increased         Savings in            Net
Fiscal       Capital      Recurrent           Vehicle            (Costs)
Year         Costs          Costs         Operating Costs       Benefits
1975        4,565             322               0                (4,887)
1976        16,780          1,275               0               (18,055)
1977        40,446          2,41h             4,4oo             (38,460)
1978        6,740           4,420            10,998             (  162)
1979                        7,280            21,142              13,862
1980                        7,280            28,269              20,989
1981                        7,280            35,395              28,115
1982                        7,280            40,007              32,727
1983                        7,280            44,620              37,340
1984                        7,280           49,234               41,954
Economic return = 21.85%
First year return =     16%
Benefit-cost ratio =  1.42:1
Source:  Mission, May 1974
July 1974






ANNEX I
Page 1
TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Recruitment of Technical Assistance
for Implementing Maintenance Program
I. LINTRODUCTION
Tn 1971, the Government of Tanzania commissioned a Highway Mainte-
nance and Organization Study which made recommeindations on equipment, staffing
and organization of the Ministry of Communicaticns and Works (Comworks) de-
signed to restore maintenance of the road network to an adequate level. On
the basis of the recommendations of this study, the Government decided to under-
take arn extensive maintenance program concentrating initially on primary roads
which carry the greatest traffic volumes, and to carry out this maintenance
program in two stages because of limited staff resources.
The first stage of this Trunk Road Maintenance Program, which is
being supported by an IDA credit, is to be implemented by Comworks, with the
assistance of technical experts, over a four-year period and includes the
following:
(a)  the maintenance (including, where necessary, the rehabili-
tation) of about 3,300 kilometers of roads in ten regions of
the country;
(b)  the construction and/or improvement of road maintenance
camps, workshops and offices;
(c)  the purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, tools and materials;
(d)  the training of highway maintenance personnel.
II.  OBJ3CTIvE
The purpose of the Techriical Assistance is to ensure effective im-
plementation of the froject, including the training of highway maintenance
personnel at all levels, and sound preparation of the second stage of the
maintenance program.
III. SCOPE OF THE TECHNICAL SERVICES
Six training experts, including one training cooordinator, will be
employed and assigned to Comwcrks'training center at Morogoro for a period
of 2Ω-3 years to develop specific courses of instruction, prepare curricula
and teach the courses to be offered road maintenance personnel such as
drivers, equipment operators, mechanics, foremen, and inspectors of works.
Such courses will include on-the-job training as well as classroom instruction.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
In addition to the technical assistance to be provided for the train-
ing ceniter, fifteen experts will be employed for a period of 2-3 years to help
alleviate the acute staffing shortage in the Roads Division of Comworks. Six
of the experts will assist at headquarters where they will (i) advise staff
in managerial positions on project implementation, (ii) prepare guidelines and
programs for maintenance activities, (iii) introduce adequate cost accounting
procedures, (iv) prepare specifications and bidding documents for the purchase
of Project equipment and spare parts and (v) assist in prequalifying suppliers
and evaluating bids. Nine of the experts will be involved in Comworks' field
activities, two helping to supervise road maintenance works and seven helping
to manage workshops. All experts are expected to serve under the overall
supervision of the Principal Secretary Comworks.
IV. PROVISION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PERSONNEL
The technical assistance personnel are to be provided as a team, under
terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Government and the Inter-
national Development Association. Job descriptions for the personnel and the
required qualifications are described below. As presently envisaged, the pro-
ject is expected to take four years, from mid 1974 to mid 1978. Key members
of the technical assistance team (Maintenance Management Engineer, Maintenance
Administrator, Training Coordinator, Equipment and Spares Specialist) will be
expected to arrive in Tanzania not later than January 1975, and the remaining
experts at varying times but not later than June 1975.
V. INDIVIDUAL JOB DESCRIPXIOINS
A. Maintenance Management Engineer
Duties:
Will report to the Principal Maintenance Engineer (Roads Division).
Will assist and advise the Principal Maintenance Engineer (Roads) on
all aspects of trunk road maintenance, including organization, control, tech-
nology, budgeting, operations and training; assist and advise the Maintenance
Planning Engineer on all aspects of maintenance planning, work scheduling and
budgeting; coordinate the work of the technical assistance team and of all
personnel engaged on the Trunk Road Maintenance Project.
Qualifications:
Should be a qualified Professional Civil Engineer with 15-20 years
experience in highway planning, design, construction, and maintenance of both
bituminous surfaced and gravel roads, including the design of bituminous mixes
and testing of soils and materials; pieferably not less than 10 years expe-
rience shall have been in operational and administrative aspects of maintenance
in a Government Highway/Roads Organization.
Must be conversant with unit costing and similar management systems and
controls and have suitable experience in equipment usage and control, and in
drafting road user regulations.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Must be fluent in bothi written and spoken English and be atle to
commuricate ideas easily.
Location:
Will be stationed in Dar es Salaam but will travel throughout Tanzania
as recuired.
B.  Maintenance Administrator (Cost Accountant)
Duties:
Will report to the Conamissioner for Works.
Will assist and advise the Accounts Officer, Equipment Engineer and
Purchasing Officer in their routine functions; will assist accountants in the
Ministry to improve accounting systems and develop data needed for cost-account-
ing purposes in conformity with "reasury reuglations and requirements.
Qualifications:
Should be a qualified Cost Accountant, or Professional Engineer with
accounting background, or graduate in Business Administration or the equivalent
in training and experience, and have a minimum of 10 years experience in costing
and financial control of civil engineering works; preferably should have not
less than 5 years experience in a Government Highway/Roads Organization.
Must be fluent in written and spoken English, be able to communicate
easily and explain control systems in a simple manner, and teach accounting
methods on the job or in the classroom.
Location:
W4ill be stationed in Dar es Salaam, but will travel to field stations
as required.
C. Equipment and Spares Specialist
Duties:
Wlill report to the Principal Maintenance Engineer (Roads Division).
Will assist and advise the Equipment Engineer on routine administration
and technical matters including procurernent and depreciation of equipment; in
coniunction with Maintenance Administrator, will develop methods for inventory
and control of equipment and spare parts unit costing systems and for establish-
ing a revolving fund for equipment replacement; will also set equipment mainte-
nance standards, develop maintenance techniques, monitor equipment maintenance
and advise on the training of mechanics and equipment operators.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
QuaLifications:
Should be a Professional Mechanical Engineer or Technologist quplified
in the mechanical field, with 1(-15 years experience in the operaticn and
management of equipment fleets :-ncluding road construction/maintenance plant
and vehicles, scaling, stocking and distribution of spares; preferably should
have not less than five years experience in a Government Highway/Roads
Organization.
Must be fluent in written and spoken English, be able to communicate
ideas easily and teach others on the job and in the classroom.
Location:
Will be stationed in Dar es Salaam but will travel to field stations as
requir3d.
D. Special Projects Supervisor
Duties:
Will report to the Principal Maintenance Engineer (Roads Division).
Will train a counterpart and assist the Principal Maintenance Engireer
to develop programs and prepare cost estimates for special projects necessary
for the maintenance and upgradir.g of primary roads.
Will assist and advise a counterpart in the management of specialized
mobile crews; will be responsible for p:roduction of aggregates and bitumen
premix, resealing and resurfacing, rehabilitation, and construction of culverts
and minor bridges; when necessary, will direct the work of any of the special-
ized crews; will assist in the training of personnel, in monitoring of train-
ing programs, and in the development of new programs for the Morogoro Training
School.
Qualifications:
Degree in Civil Engineering is desirable; must have 10-15 years expe-
rience in road construction and maintenance and should have held a responsible
position in a Government Xighway/Roads Maintenance Organization for at least
five years; must be familiar with the selection and use of the soilc and mate-
rials, and of equipment used in the above noted types of work and have the
abilitv to organize and direct the work; must be able to train operators and
supervisory staff in the various activities, and have good knowledge of written
and spoken English.
Location:
Will be stationed in Dar es Salaam but will travel throughout the
country as required.



A NNEX 1
Page 
E. Premix Superintendent
Duties:
Will report to the Special P,ojects Supervisor.
Will train a counterpart, laborers, operators and other personnel in
the operation of a small, mobile hot-mit: plant (capacity of 30-40 tons per
hour) and in the organization and techniques for the application of bituminous
seal coat.
Qualifications:
Should have 10-15 years experience in road construction and maintenance
with particular emphasis on bitumen works of all variety; experience should
incluce at least 5 years in responsible charge of an asphalt mixing plant,
including the laying of premix on low volume, low cost, rural roads.
Must be able to communicate easily, be fluent in English and be prepared
to learn some Kiswahili.
Location:
Will be stationed at Dar es Salaam or Iringa but will travel throughout
Tanzania, living, while in the field, in a caravan (house trailer).
F. Quarrying and Crushing Superintendent
Duties:
Will report to the Special Projects Supervisor.
Will be responsible for the training of a counterpart, laborers,
operators and other personnel as necessary to operate a rock crushing plant in
solid rock quarries or in natural gravel deposits, and for the operation of the
auxiliary support equipment.
Qualifications:
Should have 10-15 years experience in the operation and maintenance of
quarrying and crushing plant of which not less than 5 years should have been
in supervisory positions in a quarry; experience should have included the pro-
duction of all types of aggregate used in highway construction and maintenance.
Should have some knowledge of Geology as it applies to the location
and quality of rock.
Must be able to communicate freely with personnel at all levels and be
fluent in English and be prepared to learn some Kiswahili.



ANiTEX 1
Page 6
Location:
Will be based at Dar es Salaam or Tringa but will travel throughout
Tanzania as required, living on the various field job sites, in a caravan.
G. Area Maintenance Supervisors (2)
Duties:
Will report to the Princ-ipa L Maintenance Engineer (Roads Division).
Will assist and advise a co nterpart officer on the management of all
aspects of road mai ntenance in a geographical area containing about 1700 kms
of trunk road; will, in collaboration with the Maintenance Planning Engineer,
Special Projects Engineer and Equipment Engineer plan and implement rehiabili-
tation, routine and periodic maintenance works and special projects, direct
and control the deployment of equipment assigned to his area of operation,
decide priorities with regard to mai ntenance of equipment assigned to the area
under his jurisdiction and train ma:Lntenance personnel on organization ano
execution of road maintenance, equipment usage and selection and use of
materials.
dill cooperate r-th the T.ra:mning Coordinator in monitoring training
programs and in developing new training programs, and assist the Maintenance
Engineer to prepare annual work programs and cost estimates.
Qualifications:
Should be a qualiifed Professional Engineer with 10-15 years experience
in the design, construction and mairLtenance of rural roads, including the
desigr and use of bituminous mixes and the selection of soils and materials;
should be able to train personnel or the job and in the classroom; preferably
should have not less than 5 years experience at supervisory level in a Govern-
ment Eighway/Roads Organization.
Must be fluent in both written and spoken English and be willing to
learn some Kiswahili.
Location:
Will be stationed in either Dar es Salaam or Mbeya and will travel
throughout the Area to which assigned, as required.
H. Equipment Service and Maintenance Managers (7)
Duties:
Will work under the Area Mair.tenance Supervisor.
Will be responsible for administration of a workshop for the upkeep of
road maintenance equipment and vehicles assigned to the region or area under



ANNEX 1
Page 7
his jurisdiction; will be responsible for the training of a counterpart officer,
inspectors, mechanics and equipment operators and drivers; will keep accurate
records of equipment and their movements and costs; will order and stock
supplies and spares.
Qualifications:
Must have received training in mechanical engineering but need not be
a Qualified Engineer; must have 10-15 years experience in the maintenance of
highway construction and maintenance equipment and vehicles, at least five of
whicn should have been in a post of responsible charge of a workshop. Expe-
rience in a Government organization is desirable but not essential.
Must be fluent in English, be able to communicate freely with tradesmen
and tecqnicians and be prepared to study Kiswahili.
Location:
Will be based at either Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Tainga, Morogoro, Ytwara,
Songea or Iringa and will be required to travel throughout the assigned regicn(s)
as necessary.
I. Training Coordinator
Duties:
Will report to the Director (Marnpower Development).
Will be responsible for the planning, direction and coordination of
the training program for road maintenance personnel at the Comw?orks training
school in Morogoro, and assist in the training of a counterpart and instructors.
Will work with road maintenance staff to determine training needs,
develop course content and insure that the training is practical and geared to
needs.
Qualifications:
Should have a broad background in practical training in either Govern-
ment or Industry; teacher training (Education) and experience in education
admiristration would be desirable but less important than demonstrated ability;
experience should have been in the trades or technology fields; a knowledge
of Highway technology would be advantageous.
Location:
Will be stationed at Morogoro, but will spend some time in Dar es
Salaam and will travel to field stations as required.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
J.  Training School Instructors (,5)
Duties:
Will report to the Training Coordinator.
Five instructors are required to teach the following subjects:
MECHANICS:                 Equipment service and repair methods.
Theory and mechanical principles.
Twc reuired.
TECHNOIXGY:                Elementary road engineering, soils,
materials, design and construction
practice.
One required.
MAINTENANCE METHODS:       Road maintenance methods, materials,
job planning.
One required.
EQUIPMENT OPERATION:       Machine limits, servicing, operating
met;hods and safety.
One required.
Should have work experience in the curriculum areas concerned. Teacher
training is desirable but demonstrated ability to communicate with the student
is more important. Each instructor will develop the course content to be
taught with the assistance of the Training Coordinator and the various Trunk
Road Maintenance Division Heads.
Location:
Will be stationed at Morogoro but will travel to field stations as
required.
July 19074



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TA_ZANTIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to Review the Trucking Industry
I. INTRODUCTION
Tanzania is facing serious problems in the trucking industry: the
supply of trucking services is insufficient, the quality of service is poor,
and freight rates are high. Local, short distance trucking, in particular,
has insufficient capacity and as a result agricultural development is hampered.
II. OBJT.CTIVE
The objective of the proposed study is to make specific recommendations,
suited to Tanzania's socio-political framework and development priorities,
which will assist the Government in improving the trucking industry.
III. SCOPE OF CONSUITING SERVICES
General
The Consultant shall perform all economic studies, field investiga-
tions and related work as required to attain the objective stated in Section
IT abcve..
In the conduct of his work, the Consultant shall cooperate fully with
the Government Ministries and Departments responsible for transport and develop-
ment planning, and the Government will provide the Consultant with the informa-
tion and services outlined in Section IV. The Consultant shall be solely res-
ponsible, however, for the analyses and interpretation of all data received and
fcr the conclusions and recommendations contained in his reports.
While executing the services described below, the Consultant shall
report to the Ministry of Communications and Works.
Reviewl and Analyses
The Consuiltant shall review and analyze:
(i)  the existing and presenltly proposed regulatory system
affecting trucking, its rationale, its implementation,
and the agencies responsible for its implementation;
(ii)  by subsector (private and public), (a) the organization
of the trucking sector (number of companies, number of



AiNEX 2
Page 2
trucks, capacity of trucks, labor force), (b) operating
and maintenance facilities and practices, (c) production
(ton-kilometers), (d) efficiency and profitability, and
(e) financial situation.
In addition, the Consultant shall es'imate the trucking capacity
which Tanzania will require over the next fire years, as well as the invest-
ment requirements in new trucks and spare parts which this implies.
Recomirendations
Based on his review and analysis of the situation, the Consultant
shall formulate detailed and specific recomr'endations which will assist the
Goverrment in improving the trucking industit. These recommendations should
take into account and reflect Tanzania's socLo-political framework and develop-
mentr priorities.  In addition, the Consultanc shall indicate how his recom-
mendations can best be implemented.
The Consultant's recommeadations shall cover, inter alia:
(i)  the adequacy and form of direct Government participa-
tion in the trucking industry;
(ii)  the extent and form of regulation of the trucking sector;
(iii)  measures to improve efficiency in both private and
public trucking (management, administration, training,
operation, maintenance, costing and rate setting).
IV.  INFORMATION, IfCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES
TO BE PROVIDEI) BY THE GOVERNMENT
Information
The Government will provide the Consultant, upon his request, with all
available information relevant to his report. This may range from information
on the regulatory system, public trucking companies, taxes and duties on
trucking, and previous studies or the trucking industry to information on the
Government's overall economic anc social policies as indicated in the current
Five-Year Development Plan and other documents.
En addition, the Government will facilitate the Consultant's contacts
with the various Government agencies and also assist him, at his request, in
establishing contact with the private sector.
Facilities and Supporting Staff f3r the Consultant
The Government will provide a suitable office with secretarial assis-
tance and utilities, and transportation within Tanzania to help the Consultant
in performing his services.



Page 3
V. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTJNG SERVICES AND REPORTS
The Consultant shall commence the studies within 30 calendar days of
the effective date of the contract and shall prepare and submit the reports
listed below (15 copies in English) to the Ministry- of Commtrnications and
forks within the time periods indicated:
(i)  an Inception Report within one month of starting date,
summarizing his initial findings and setting out proposals
for the conduct of his study;
(ii) a Draft Final Report three months after the Inception Re-
port containing a summary of his findings and recommendations,
including an assessment as to the extent that the services'
objectives have been met. This report shall include all
material to be presented in the Final Report for comment
by the Government and the Association; and
(iii) a Final Report, one month after receipt of written com-
ments by the Government and the Association on the Draft
Final Report incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate.
July 1974






TANZANIA
HIGHWAY MkINTENANCE PROJECT
Maintenance Program Irylementation Schedule -Stage I.
1971/5                   1975/6                  1976/7                  1977/8
A. Equipment, Spares, Tools
1. Preparation of procurement documents
2. Tender arrangements to award of contract
3. Delivery                                                                                        -
B.  Construction/Iqprovesent
1. Workshops and offices
a. Morogoro, Hbeya, Dar es Salaam
b. Iringa, Mtwara, Songea, Tanga
2. Road camps
C.  Materials
D.  Training Aids
E.  Tec}nical Assistance
1. Contract negotiations to signature
2. In the field
a. Xaintenance management engineer )
Maintenance administrator        )                                 --
Equipment and spares specialist)
Training coordinator
b.  Instructors (5)                               )                                                                                 -
Area maintenance supervisors (2)              )
Equipment service & maintenance managers (7)                                              -
c.  Special projects supervisor
Premix superintendent               )
Quar~rying/crushing superintendent
Source:  Comworks and mission, June 1974.
July 1974






TAN ZAN IA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
OF HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND WORKS
MNSTER
|          PRINCIPAL
SECRETARY
INTERNAL
AUDITOR
| _ J _ | ~~~~~~~~~FINANCE AND 
PLANNING UNIITFIACAN
OFFICE SERVICES
WORKS                                                                        TRANSPORT AND
DEPARTMENT                                                                    COMMUNICATIONS
DEPARTMENT
COMMISSIONER                                                                     COMMIIONER
CONTRACT
SERVICES
BILDNSROADS                                          MANPOWERSUFC-O,m
|  DIVISION       DIVISION          VIEHICLES       DEVELOPMENT           S PNG           AVIATION       TRANSPORTATION      COM UN!CATIONS
VS ND"" lON                                   IVISON           D   ONDIVISION    DIVISION          DIVISION
DIRECTOR                                                                                                  L
MATERIALS
|  LABORATORY  g               ADMINISTRATION
PLANNING      CONSTRUCTION                         PLANT
AND         AND CONTRACT    MAINTENANCE           AND
DESIGN         CONTROL           SECTION         EQUIPMENT
SECTION         SECTION                           SECTION                                                                              World Bank-8902






____________________  _____BRD  10949R
-                                                         Ju,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAR   -.
L  <E                                              N                                                        ueC
RWANDA    Q1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA'otQ-v.....                                                                                       ~       O
-v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N
'Bihoromulo  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Cern  *Kro~                                                       FIW
.:  Koooovef                o u=g
A PI A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 el~~RJHA-
:1L;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~uo                    ABO4Dli                                                              Kooo L A  5   0//A|1b ^i/ JSrnr            SJrkdr 4LR X'52tPEMBA t
#ANZIBAR
DODCMAOno                                              n  ZNIP
*A-ES-SALAAM
tongnj     ,C      /ndr  * 
-1~~~~~~~~~                                                          la                                       C~~~~~~~~~MeoOOcn
~~~~iongn Boiieo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~anwku, I Kil
W\ +   Pn,on\I AgM \n,C
t -                                                                                                                                      Lind .   .      0  L ; r| r d )uky  ,, 
.   .f; M TMAIIACC .A Roon e leenn 'o,AN'A t;i' zA  toNsAkpOrt   A     <  ^,       t _9                       'i  i:                 I
_____                                                                                                       Z         [ QU ra;
ChP   CC    C      D ei A
r  rffFi'ty /r fjX I' >- 4-; ' \ -~~~~N G                                      Nach
-  igFwfionat *wq;   ~<



