Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9018
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 1593-CO)
SEPTEMBER 25, 1990
rade, Finance and Industry Division
epartment III
atin America and the Caribbean Region
document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Colombian Peso (Col$)
Average Rate during year of:
1977   US$l = 42.9  Col$
1978   US$l = 48.9  Col$
1979   US$1 = 55.0  Col$
1980   US$l = 61.5  Col$
1981   US$l = 64.3  Col$
1982   US$1 = 70.8  Col$
1983   US$1 = 84.3  Col$
1984   US$1 = V13.3 ColS
1985   US$1 = 144.5 Col$
1986   US$1 = 227.9 Col$
1987   US$1 = 313.7 Col$
1988   US$1 = 402.1 Col$
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CDI   Consortium of Engineers and Researchers
CFZ   Cartagena Industrial and Commercial Free Zone
MED   Ministry of Economic Development
SENA National Service for Vocational Training



FOR OMCILu  USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC 204 3 3
USA
Office of ODiectnmt-nti
Opivatms WValuation
September 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Colombia - Cartagena
Industrial Export Processing Zone Project
(Loan 1593-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone
Project (Loan 1593-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office.  No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution "Ind may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 1593-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ..                           ..............    ........   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                           ....iii
Part I - Bank Review of the Proiect ...
1.1 Project Identity . ........                                                           1
1.2 Background....                                                                        1
1.3  Project Objectives and Description                          ...                      2
1.4 Project Implementation....                                                           3
1.5 Project Results and Sustainability....                                               6
1.6 Project Design and Organization... .                                                  7
1.7 Bank Performance....                                                                 8
1.8 Borrower Performance                                 .         ... 8
1.9 Conclusions 9              ..........                                                 9
Part II - Borrower's Review of the Proiect    .                         .10
2.1 Project Design and Implementation    .                        .10
2.2  Project Benefits and Financial Performance of CFZ                                   12
2.3 Conclusions.                        . ...... .  I ...14
Part III - Statistical Data  ...........              ..       ............15
Table 1: Project Timetable                 ..                                                 15
Table 2: Loan Disbursements  . ...... . .16
Table 3: Project Implementation..                                             .            I7
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing                         . . .18
Table 5: Project Results                           ....20
Table 6: Use of Bank Resources                          . ...21
Table 7: Status of Key Covenants                          .. . .22
Figure 1: Design of the CFZ Export Processing Zone .25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 1593-CC)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cartagena
Industrial Export Processing Zone Project (CFZ) in Colombia for which
Loan 1593-CO of US$15.0 million was approved by the Executive Directors
on May 24, 1978. US$14.7 million was disbursed by the third and final
closing date of June 30, 1.987, and the associated Bank-executed UNDP
technical assistance component was completed in December 1988. About
US$8.0 million has been repaid by the Colombian Government under the
Guarantee Agreement.
The PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance and Industry
Division of Country Department III of the Latin America and Caribbean
Region. The CFZ has submitted its own assessment of the Project, which
is excerpted in Part II of this Report.
The PCR was compiled on the basis of information available in
the LAC Information Center, the Staff Appraisal Report, reports produced
by CFZ and consultants whtich it engaged, correspondence with the Bank,
staff Supervision Reports and a visit by a consultant to the CFZ to help
prepare the PCR.



- iii -
PROJEUT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 1593-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.          The Cartagena Industrial and Commercial Free Zone (CrZ) was created
by decree 2077 of October 1973 as a Public Establishment attached to the Ministry
of Economic Development (MED), one of six such zones previously authorized under
Law 105 of 1958.   Its basic purpose was to foster the economic and social
development of the region surrounding the port of Cartagena, one of two ports
along the Caribbean coast of Colombia.  The specific objectives of the Prt-,:ct
were to:
(a) support the Government's industrial decentralization policy by
creating a fully serviced export processing zone near Cartagena;
(b) expand non-traditional manufactured exports;
(c) improve income and living standards among the unemployed and
underemployed by providing some 5-6,000 mainly low-skilled jobs from
an estimated 30 enterprises; and
(d) provide an economic base for a proposed urban poverty program
in the Cartagena area.
CFZ put strong emphasis on attracting industrial enterprises which would develop
substantial links to the Colombian economy rather than purely enclave activities.
Therefore, its main criteria to appraise potential private investors were
employment generation, use of local raw materials, exports outside the Andean
Pact area, new technology and pollution control.
Implementation and Results
2.          The Project consisted of three components: an industrial area to
house industrial and related service facilities, supporting infrastructure (a
water transmission line and rehabilitation of a municipal road), and a vocational
training center. The implementation of all three components ran considerabl,
behind schedule and, overall, the Project came to a close about five years after
its original completion date of 1983. The road and water works were completed
as planned, though about 2-2.5 years behind schedule, and the water supply was
extended to reach the community of Pasacaballos (about 3 km) to provide it with
treated water. The vocational training center was completed five years behind
schedule in 1987. Only 22 of 55 industrial buildings which had been expected
to be constructed by 1983 were in fact completed by 1989.
3.          Overall, the plan to construct industrial buildings was not attained
because of a lack of investor demand. To a lesser extent, the slow pace was due
to organizational and procurement problems, and to delays in the provision of
counterpart financing. The lack of clearly d ¢ned rules for investments in
Colombian free zones prior to 1986 was undoubtediy an important underlying cause



- iv -
of the lack of demand for CFZ space. A new law was enacted in 1985 (Law 109)
which offered a regulatory and incentives regime competitive with zones elsewhere
in the world, and obliged investors to have an export rather than domestic market
orientation. Demand for CFZ space has increased noticeably since its passage.
Prior to the promulgation of Law 109, only six buildings were occupied in CFZ,
all of which were Colombian owned.   Since then, 16 more buildings have been
rented, of which 13 are being utilized by foreign firms or local/foreign joint
ventures.
4.          While the results of the Project as of 1989 fall far short of its
physical, financial and economic objectives reviewed at appraisal, the very
modest industrial investment which has materialized in the CFZ does have the
profile sought under the Project.   Most new firms are processors which are
backward-linked to natural resources (wood, fish, fruits) or are assembly
operations (air conditioners, refrigeration, office materials, engine parts),
confirming the comparative advantages anticipated by the Project. Virtually all
are export-oriented. Exports for 1989 were estimated at under US$ 10 million
versus a total of $50-60 million estimated at appraisal or, in relation to the
area actually constructed, about US$28 million. Total direct employment in the
Zone was estimated for 1989 at 716 and indirect employment at about 6,000.
Direct employment estimated at appraisal was 5-6,000 for the area expected to
be constructed and 1,250-1,500 in relation to the area actually constructed.
5.          Reestimating the Project's rates of return using the conservative
analyses employed at appraisal yields negative rates. This contrasts markedly
with the 11X and 132 financial and economic rates of return, respectively, of
the Project estimated at appraisal which anticipated a much higher occupancy
level of industrial buildings. To achieve full cost recovery and begin to cover
its repayment obligations on the Bank's loan would require the CFZ to attract
investors to utilize about 14 additional buildings, which would attain the design
capacity to cover the cost of infrastructure now onsite.  The present rental
fees, $1.50 per m2, would also have to be raised to about $2.75-4.60 per m2.
This would remain within the range of charges of other free zones in the
Caribbean.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.           In retrospect, it appears that the depth of Project preparation
and Bank appraisal work should have been greater. The Project cost estimates
for the industrial area were based upon the equivalent of an architectual study
without detailed engineering work, and the water supply and road cost estimates
were preliminary data developed at the time of appraisal.   Project design
included appropriately the development of road and water supply infrastructure.
But the assumptions that the CFZ would generate sufficient resources to pay for
it was not very realistic. The foreign investment demand and related projections
of the cash generation capacity of CFZ should have been better substantiated by
adequate market and sensitivity analyses. In their absence even now, the short
fall in demand for CFZ facilities remains difficult to fully explain.



- v -
7.          Further analysis should also have revealed the shortcomings in the
regulatory framework for foreign investment. While the Bank played a very useful
role in encouraging passage of Law 109 of 1985, it should have applied comparable
efforts to examine the likely net financial and economic benefits from the
investments made by industrialists within the CFZ in relation to the costs of
the array of incentives which were offered. In addition, consideration should
have been given to the pros and cons of the public character of CFZ and to the
potential benefits of launching the CFZ as a privately operated entity.  The
regulations imposed on it as part of the public administration in Colombia,
particu.;larly with respect to personnel and contracting, are largely inconsistent
with the requirements of dealing with the international 'usinesi community.
8.          The perceived deterrents to foreign investment in the CFZ associated
with Colombia's guerrillas and narcotics traffic were substantially less when
the Project was launched than at present. Though such problems have grown during
the Project implementation period, they do not appear to have been noted or
addressed by CFZ or Bank supervision. In the future, the impact of this factor
on investment, operations, and the financial performance of private sector
business needs to be more frontally addressed both in project design and
appraisal work, at least by using more conservation assumptions in Project
analysis.
9.          More fundamentally, the Government would have been well advised in
the mid-1970s to undertake industrial development initiatives with a more
profound nationwide effect than those produced by relatively isolated free zones.
Substantial trade reform, the simplification of Plan Vallejo (the duty drawback
system), more flexible foreign investment regulations, and improvements in
infrastructure critical to industrial exports are steps which have only recently
been undertaken. While free zores have demonstrated local and transitional
benefits, they are not a substitute for national reform to promote
internationally competitive industrial development.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 1593-CO)
Part I - Bank Review of the Proiect
1.1 Proiect Identity
Project Name: Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone Project
Loan Number : 1593-CO
Loan Amount : US$15.0 million equivalent
RVP Unit    : Latin America and the Caribbean
Country     : Republic of Colombia
Sector      t Industry
Subsector   : Export processing free zone
1.2 Background
1.          The Cartagena Industrial and Commercial Free Zone (CFZ) was created
by decree 2077 of October 1973 as a Public Establishment attached to the Ministry
of Economic Development (MED), one of six such zones previously authorized under
Law 105 of 1958.  Subsequent decrees defined its by-laws and the regulations
governing the flow of goods in and out of the free zone. Its basic purpose was
to foster the economic and social development of the surrounding region by
install'ng and operating an industrial and commercial free zone in the port of
Cartagena, one of two ports along the Caribbean coast of Colombia.
2.          CFZ began in an era in which in many countries export processing
zones became an instrument to stimulate exports of non-traditional goods
manufactured by light industries, usually by offering preferen.ial treatment
for production inputs, taxation, infrastructure and simplified public
administrative requirements.  The welfare impact of such zones has been shown
to be primarily through effects on employment, management and skill acquisition,
foreign exchange earnings, and demand for local raw materials.' Detracting from
benefits are frequently the subsidies accorded in the pricing of utilities, local
capital at below mnarket rates, tax exemptions and unrecovered costs of
infrastructure.
3.          In mid-1977, the Bank was asked by the Government to consider a loan
to finance a portion of an investment to create the infrastructure and facilities
to develop the Export Processing Division of CFZ. The Pro,ect was the first of
its kind to be financed by the Bank in Latin America.
1 "Export Processing Zones - The Economics of Enclave Manufacturing", by
Peter G. Warr. The World Bank Research Observer, January 1989.



1.3 Project Objectives and Description
4.           The principal objectives of the Project were to:
(a) support the Government's industrJal decentralization policy by
creating a fully serviced export processing zone near CArtagena;
(b) eixpand non-traditional manufactured exports:
(c) improve income and living standards among the unemployed and
underemployed by providing some 5-6,000 mainly low-skilled jobs from
an estimated 30 enterprises; and
(d) provide an economic base for a proposed urban poverty program
in the Cartagena area.
CFZ put trong emphasis on attracting industrial enterprises which would develop
substai.tial links to the Colombian economy rather than purely enclave activities.
Therefcre, its main criteria to appraise potential private investors were
employment generation, use of local raw materials, exports outside the Andean
Pact area, new technology and pollution control.
5.          The site for the export processing zone was located about 15 km
south of the port of Cartagena in the Mamonal area on 92 ha of raw land. The
Project represented the first phase of a plan to develop the area in three or
four stages over a period of about 12 years.   It was expected to yield an
estImated 11% financial rate of return even if the following expansion stages
were postponed.
6.          The first stage, with a total estimated cost of US$31.3 million
(including capitalized interest of $2.1 million), was to consist of the following
three components:
(a) Industrial Area ($23.4 million) - civil works to develop 38 ha.
of land to house industrial and related service facilities (27 ha),
and general services (11 ha.), such as the administration buildings,
post office, bank, a vocational training center and social service
centers. The site was to include 55 buildings, ranging in size from
1,200-1,800 m2 with a clear height of 6-8 m., with structural
flexibility to accommodate various requirements for light industrial
production.     Technical  assistance  was  also  programmed  fcr
international promotion of the CFZ;
(b) Supporting Infrastructure ($5.5 million) - the construction of
a water transmission line of 11,900 m from the municipal water
treatment facilities and rehabilitation of a municipal road 14.6 km
in length and 7.3 m width, linking the settlement of Pasacaballos
to the national road at Ceballos; and
(c) Vocational Training Center ($0.3 million) - the construction,
furnishing and equipping of a vocational training center to train
up to 60 job seekers at one time at the CFZ.



1.4 Project Implementation
7.          Physical Completion and Cost.   The implementation of all three
components ran considerably behind schedule and, overall, the Project came to
a close about five years afLer its original completion date of 1983 (Tables 1
and 2). The road and water works were completed as planned, tnough about 2-
2.5 years behind schedule, and the water supply was extended to reach the
community of Pasacaballos (about 3 km) to provide it with treated water. The
vocational training center was completed five years behind schedule in 1987.
Only 22 of 55 industrial buildings which had been expected to be constructed by
1983 were in fact completed by 1989. Six were built on an adjacent area inland
where the development cost was relatively lower (see Figure 1).  The plan to
construct 'ndustrial buildings fell behind largely because of a lack of investor
demand for space. As this became evident, the Bank reached agreement in 1984
with the CFZ that it would not contract for additional building construction as
long as three or more buildings remained unoccupied.
8.          Construction delays were also due to conflicts created by financial
constraints and organizational problems. Counterpart funds from the Government
were not received as planned and projected cash generation of the commercial
operations of CFZ were overly optimistic.   In 1979, CFZ's Board of Directors
wanted to assign the P-oject's detailed engineering contract to a group that did
not meet the selection criteria used in the competitive bidding procedures
established under the Bank's loan. It refused to assign the contract to the
winner selected by the CFZ's General Manager. The Bank reviewed the selection
criteria and stood by the General Manager. Finally, the bidding was declared
void and new bids solicited. The impasse delayed substantially construction.
9.          This problem arose in part from an organizatiornal structure with
conflicting lines of authority and interests. For example, the General Manager
is named by Colombia's President while the Board of Directors is composed of
members of the iederal and state governments and two members from the private
sector. The General Manager cannot be removed by the Board and he cannot sign
checks on behalf of the CFZ (a task assigned to the Controller of Cartagena).
In addition, the two local agencies responsible for the road and water supply
components (Valorizaciones and Municipalidad, respectively) did not complete the
implementation program. The Subsidiary Loan Agreements called for these entities
to receive funds from the Bank through CFZ to cover a portion of their costs.
In both cases, CFZ ended up completing the work after a portion of the loan had
been disbursed to the two subsidiary borrowers. While they promised to repay
CFZ in full by 1984, there is still a significant portion outstanding.
10.         The appraisal  estimates  of Project cost were US$31.3 million,
including about IOZ for physical contingencies and about 25? for price
adjustments for inflation (Table 3A).    For the 22 industrial buildings and
supporting facilities, Project costs totalled US$31.2 million through 1986,
including $3.7 million for interest during construction and promotional expenses
(see Table 4). However, substantial cost overruns were incurred in construction
of the industrial buildings, which were 60? of total Project costs.   The
estimated investment per leased square meter was about $24.5, while the actual



4
cost was about $81/m2.   The sou-ce of these  overruns are,  in particular,
unreL istic cost estimates, and to delays in construction due to operating
bottlenecks, financial constraints and low demand. The investment in the road
and water supply infrastructure, 142 of Project t-osts, was almost twice the
estimated amottnts.  The cost of the vocational training center (lZ of total
costs) was in accord with cost estimates.
11.          Financing Plan and CFZ Budgeting.   The Project's  financing plan
relied on the Bank for nearly one-half its funds (US$ 15.0 million or 482), the
internal cash generation of CFZ ($7.2 million or 232), and a counterpart
contribution of the federal Government ($4.2 million or 14Z) (Tables 3B and 4).
CFZ's  ontribution was premised upon equal contributions from the profits of the
export processing and commercial divisions of the Zone. The latter is an area
where goods can be stored duty free until the fees are paid. These expectations
were supported biy favorable growth in CFZ's operations during 1976-77, a
relatively good macroeconomic environment, a perception of good market
opportunities and no competition from private customs zones.
12.          However, only $1.4 million of CFZ's contribution materialized fcr
several reasons. The profitability of its commercial operation was dependent
on the ability of Colombia to import goods, which in the early 1980s became
constrained by increasing quota restrictions to deal with balance of payments
problems.   The considerable  profitability  of the commercial operation also
attracted competition, which led to an increase in privately managed sites.
Finally, increasing use wa.£ being made of other mechanisms to import goods duty
free for use in export-oriented production, such as Colombia's duty drawback
mechanism (Plan Vallejo).
13.          The shortfalls were clearly  reflected as well in the perpetual
mismatch between CFZ's budgetary projections and results as well as its financial
performance. Revenues and profitability were substantially overestimated in all
but one year between 1979-86. In seven out of 10 operating years (1978-87), net
income as a share of total income was either less than 12 or negative and its
current ratio (excluding the current portion of the loan payable to the Bank)
frequently below 1.0.
14.          The  federal Government provided  $3.75  million  of  its  Project
commitment, as well as a further $2.5 million in interest on the Bank's loan
through 1987. However, payments of its funds to the Project were systematically
delayed, generally between 6-12 months, which added to the financial pressure
on the CFZ already felt from lower than expected internal generation of cash for
the Project. The uncertainty of the date of payment of federal funds prevented
the CFZ from making commitments and thus delayed construction. When funds were
committed, those not utilized within the fiscal year of approval could not be
expended in the following fiscal year. The value of the funds received was also
eroded by inflation, which ran 20-302 in Colombia. To ameliorate the situ-ation,
the Bank negotiated a Government payment of counterpart funds as a condition of
the first extension of the loan closing date in 1983.



5
15.         Legal Framework.  The lack of zlearly defined rules for investments
in Colombian free zones prior to 1986 was undoubtedly an underlying cause of the
lack of demand for CFZ space. Particularly during the 1970s, numerous other free
zones were developed largely in Asia and the Caribbean which provided substantial
incentives under their legal regime. Colombia's foreign investment law in force
during Project appraisal (Law 105 of 1958) aimed primarily to generate employment
and export revenues by encouragirg foreign investors to capitalize on Colombia's
favorable geographic position and other economic assets. The Law provided for
an enclosed area where industries could import free of duties and licenses both
capital goods and production inputs to produce goods for local and foreign
markets. It was reviewed by the Shannon Free Airport Development Co. of Ireland
and was considered to be an adequate framework for the Project. However, most
of the enterprises established in Colombia's other free zones were Colombia%
firms taking advantage of the free import regime to import goods for consumption
in the domestic market.   The law was thus widely perceived,  at least in
retrospect, as unfair to domestic producers rather than a neutral instrument to
attract foreign investors.
16.         As a lack of demand for the CFZ's industrial buildings became
apparent, the CFZ mounted a strong lobby with Bank support to develop a free
zone law which was more competitive and consistent with those in other countries.
Law 41 of 1981 was passed by Congress for this purpose, though it was
subsequently opposed by domestic business interests and and latter nullified as
several of its provisions were found by the Supreme Court to be unconstitutional.
A new law was enacted in 1985 (Law 109) and finally allowed CFZ for the first
time to offer a regulatory and incentives regime which was competitive with zones
elsewhere in the world, and obliged investors to have an export rather than
domestic market orientation. Since the passage of Law 109, demand for CFZ space
has increased considerably.
17.         A related legal issue hap also played a part in deterring local
financing of enterprises desiring to establish themselves in the CFZ. As the
Zone is an extra-territorial extension of Colombia for purposes of custom, tax
and foreign exchange laws, local banks have felt that a mortgage or lien on
assets within its boundaries would not provide sufficient guarantees for loans.
However, neither the CFZ nor banking institutions in Colombia have acted
aggressively to promote a solution to this issue, which might be resolved through
guarantees by CFZ of locally financed loans on behalf of CFZ users,
counterguaranteed through liens of goods in the CFZ and/or by the parent of the
foreign investor or some other device.
18.         Promotion.   Promotion to attract foreign investors to CFZ during
site preparation and construction in the industrial area was minimal. Following
the signing of Law 109, however, the CFZ selected Price Waterhouse (PW) to carry
out a comprehensive search for investors.   PW developed a targeted campaign
through a careful sector screening process based upon the perceived comparative
advantages of CFZ.   While it contacted 1,060 firms by letter, received 136
"positive" responses, and mounted jointly with CFZ staff 52 meetings with senior
enterprise officials, no investments were made directly as a result of the
effort.



6
1.5 Project Results and Sustainability
19.         Industrial Investment.  The results of the Project fall far short
of its physical, financial and economic objectives reviewed at appraisal.
However, the very modest industrial investment which has materialized in the
CFZ does have a profile which was sought under the Project.   Prior to the
promulgation in 1986 of Law 109, only six buildings (by six firms) were occupied
in CFZ,  all of which were Colombian owned.   Following this time,  16 more
buildings have been rented (by twelve enterprises), of which 13 are being
utilized by  foreign  firms  or local/foreign  joint ventures.    During this
relatively short period of time, a high degree of stability in occupancy has
taken place, with only one firm leaving the CFZ. Most new firns are processors
which are backward-linked to natural resources (wood, fish, fruits) or are
assembly operations (air conditioners, refrigeration, office materials, engine
parts), confirming the comparative advantages anticipated by the Project.
Virtually all are export-oriented. Exports for 1989 were estimated at under US$
10 million (versus a total of $50-60 million estimated at appraisal or, in
relation to the area actually constructed, about US$28 million).
20.         Total direct employment in the Zone was estimated for 1989 at 716
and indirect employment at about 6,000. Direct employment estimated at appraisal
was 5-6,000 for the area expected to be constructed and 1,250-1,500 in relation
to the area actually constructed. The investment cost per direct job of $16,500
suggests rather high labor-intensity of the firms established and is comparable
to those financed under the Fourth Small Scale Industry Project. Average firm
size tends to be rather small (27 workers), comparable to Panama (13 in the Colon
zone) and considerably less than zones in countries such as Brazil (170 in
Manaus) and Mexico (240 in the maquilladoras).
21.         Reestimated Rates of Return.  Reestimating the Project's rates of
return using the conservative analyses employed at appraisal yields negative
rates of return over 25 years using the current rental rates of the 22 industrial
buildings now in use.  This contrasts markedly with the 112 and 132 financial
and economic rates of return of the Project estimated at appraisal. To make the
financial rate of return equal to zero, assuming no land revaluation, the rate
of return would have to be calculated for 60 years.  Even excluding from the
calculations a portion of the costs of the road and water supply component, the
benefits of which have also accrued to others along their path, would require
more than 40 years to get a zero rate of return.
22.         The economic rate of return calculated for the road component itself
is probably higher than appraisal estimates (372) since the actual traffic volume
on the road no doubt substantially exceeds appraisal estimates.   In fact, 20
projects were underway in 1989, of which 9 were expansions of existing
enterprises in the Mamonal area, involving an estimated $465 million and 2,200
new workers. The economic rate of return of the water supply component was not
calculated at the time of appraisal.   However, as the line was extended to
Pasacaballos and treated water is now given to this settlement, the improved
health benefits are likely to yield a significant return and possibly have helped
to reverse the migration toward Cartagena (its population is now close to 6,000
after dwindling to 2,500).



7
23.         Regulatory Framework and Competitiveness.  A competitive regulatory
framework was set up under the Project. A comparative analysis in 1986 by CFZ
showed that provisions for import tax and duty exemptions, sales and income tax
exemptions, options to sell products locally, and processing of investment
proposals compare favorably with countries in the Caribbean anid Central American
area.   Studies done in the mid-1980s by CFZ,  Price Waterhouse and others
suggested that CFZ maintained significant advantages over free zones in most
countries of the area with respect to the cost of covered space, utilities, and
raw material and intermediate goods production inputs.   Labor remuneration
represented a modest disadvantage in relation to a number of these countries
while local port charges were a substantial disadvantage.
24.         Taken together, light manufacturing in the CFZ would appear to be
competitive with zones in neighboring countries and the Pacific Rim, and clearly
attractive (mainly due to labor costs) in relation to a USA-based operation.
Like many other countries, of course, the liberal tax exemptions offered by the
CFZ only transfer revenue from Colombia to the home countries of foreign
investors, such as the USA, when their tax law allows their firms a tax credit
for taxes paid abroad against tax obligations at home.
25.         The CFZ can continue to generate new employment for the Cartagena
area and surrounding region through foreign investment, can upgrade skills of
employees and to demonstrate the effects of export-oriented ventures. Hovever,
the CFZ has been consistently unable to meet the financial costs associated with
the Project. Thus, unless occupancy and rental rates increase, its continued
operation will be at the cost of the Federal Government continuing through 1995
to pay the Bank's debt service and continued cross subsidies of the commercial
division of the CFZ. With its present and foreseeable financial condition, the
CFZ is not expected to be creditworthy in the view of private banks to finance
the majority of its capital needs and therefore would probably have to continue
to rely on publicly supported funds to finance new industrial buildings.
26.         To achieve full cost recovery and begin to reimburse the Gcvernment
for its outlays for the Bank's loan would require the CFZ to attract investors
to utilize roughly an additional 14 buildings, which would attain the design
capacity to cover the cost of infrastructure now onsite. The average cost of
a standard factory building is $150-250 per m2. The present rental fees, $1.50
per m2 represent between 0.6-1X of the cost.  To be financially viable, the CFZ
must raise its charges to about $2.75-4.60 per m2. This would remain within the
range of charges of other free zones in the Caribbean.
1.6 Project Design and Organization
27.         In retrospect, consideration should have been given to the pros and
cons of the public character of CFZ and the potential benefits of launching the
CFZ as a private entity.  The regulations imposed on it as part of the public
administration in Colombia, particularly with respect to personnel and
contracting, are inconsistent with the requirements of international business.
Much of the public financing of the Project and subsequent repayment of the
Bank's debt by the Government may have relieved the CFZ from the need to mount
a more aggressive overseas promotion effort. In addition, it is probable that



8
the capital costs borne by the CFZ could have been reduced significantly be
decreasing the design standards of the industrial area (the Barranquilla free
zone, with much more modest facilities, operates at considerably less expense
and higher capacity use), relying on nearby training facilities, and attributing
only a portion of the cost of the road and water supply infrastructure to CFZ.
1.7 Bank Performance
28.         It appears that the depth of preparation and Bank appraisal work
should have been greater. The Project cost estimates for the industrial area
were based upon the equivalent of an architectural study without detailed
engineering work, and the water supply and road cost estimates were preliminary
data developed at the time of appraisal.   The foreign investment demand and
related projections of the cash generation capacity of CFZ should have been
better substantiated by market analyses and adequate sensitivity analyses.
Further analysis should have also revealed some of the shortcomings in the legal
and incentives framework for foreign investment.  And a closer review at the
outset of CFZ's organizational structure might have led to improvements in the
way it functioned.
29.         Project design included appropriately the development of road and
water supply infrastructure. But the assumptions that the CFZ would generate
sufficient resources to pay for it was not very realistic.   While the Bank
played a very useful role in encouraging passage of Law 109 of 1985, it should
have applied comparable efforts to examine the net financial and economic
benefits from the investments made by industrialists within the CFZ in relation
to the costs of the array of incentives which were offered. Bank supervision
work should have detected earlier and sought to resolve the problems stemming
from inadequate cash generation by CFZ and timely provision of counterpart funds
from the federal Government.
1.8 Borrower Performance
30.         The tenacity and enthusiasm of the General Manager of CFZ, Mr.
Hector Trujillo, was essential to the advancement of the Project. He has been
an important force in resolving problems in physical implementation of CFZ,
securing promised counterpart funds, lobbying for the development and passage
of Law 109 of 1985 and promoting the CFZ.   This effort as well as CFZ's
geographical position is reflected in the edge which CFZ holds over other
Colombian free zones in the growth of foreign investment since 1986.
31.         CFZ placed very strong emphasis on promotion, using a wide range of
instruments such as seminars, careful targeting and individual contacts, large
inter-governmental missions, and media campaigns. This work showed considerable
drive and creativity. At the same time, inadequate attention was given to the
evaluation of the costs and benefits of each activity to help to ensure that
CFZ's operations can eventually support such expenditures from its regular
income. This seems illustrative of a wider sense that, as a public entity, CFZ
appears not to have felt the need to truly develop financially self-sustaining
operations because it had recourse to public support. Given the need for more



9
cost-effective operations and for phasing out extra-budgetary resources of
external agencies, CFZ needs to reduce administrative overheads and make more
critical choices in their expenditures, particularly with respect to promotion
and training.
1.9 Conclusions
32.         The Project underscores the importance of what is well known:
identification and assessment of various options for project design, thorough
preparation and careful assessment of assumptions underlying expected costs and
benefits are vital. The advantages of private sector development and management
of  the  zone  should  have  been  carefully  examined.        More  consolidated
organization and responsiblity for Project implementation as an option to the
four different public agencies involved in the project should also have been
considered. Two fundamental areas in particular, the regulatory framework for
the Project in relation to other free zones across the world and foreign
investment demand for CFZ's comparative advantages, could have benefited from
more thorough examination.    Strong efforts following loan approval were made
with substantial CFZ and Bank staff inputs to correct the problems, though they
could not overcome the effects of delays and miscalculation of demand.
33.         The perceived deterrents to foreign investment in the CFZ associated
with Colombia's guerrillas and narcotics traffic were substantially less when
the Project was launched than at present. Such problems have grown during the
Project implementation period and express themselves concretely for investors
by, for example, the special inspections by US customs of good shipped from
Colombia which slow delivery times. However, they do not appear to have been
noted or addressed by CFZ or Bank supervision.  In the future, the impact of
this factor on investment, operations, and the financial performance of private
sector business needs to be more frontally addressed both in project design and
appraisal work, at least by using more conservation assumptions in Project
analysis.
34.         More fundamentally, the Government would have been well advised in
the mid-1970s to undertake industrial development initiatives with a more
profound nationwide effect than those produced by relatively isolated free
zones.   Substantial trade reform, the simplification of Plan Vallejo, more
flexible foreign investment regulations, and improvements in infrastructure
critical to industrial exports are steps which have only recently been
undertaken. While free zones have demonstrated local and transitional benefits,
they are not a substitute for national reform to promote internationally
competitive industrial development.



10
Part II  Bo rowervs Review of the Project 2
35.          In 1975, the Shanuoln Free Aiy.port Development Co. Ltd, acting as
e-xternal technical advisors to CFY', concltuded that the Project prepared by the
Consortium of Engineers aiLd Researchiers (CDI) was interesting, well conceived
and had much potential.   Further  it wuuld constitute not only creation of a
free zone but an experiment in regional development.   It recommended to the
Colombian Government that the Project be financed and that it ensure the
fulfillment of certain supporting activities.
36.         The key factors ror the success of the Project---demand for the
export processing facility, implem-nentation schedule, employment and export
effects--- were based upon certSin kev assurnptions.   These were the timely
construction of                           LSacili i, pr&\is-,  s sLocduled of contributions by the
parties associated under the Pzoject's tiniancing plan, rental fees adequate to
cover operating costs and meet a portion of future investment costs, a legal
framework providing competitive incentives, and an effective promotion program
of CFZ supported by PROEXPO.
2.1 Project Design and Implementation
37.         Construction of Facilities.  The shortfall in the construction of
industrial buildings and public services against the implementation plan was
due to several factors.  CFZ was to contract with a supervisory firm to oversee
the quality of the works. CFZ established a technical commission to evaluate
proposals for this purpose using eligibility criteria approved by the Bank.
Subsequently, the CFZ's Board of Directors sought to modify the ranking of the
proposals made by the CFZ's management. This step was rejected by the Bank and
24 months past before the problem was resolved. During this time, CFZ financed
civil works under the Project with its oni resources in the absence of Bank
disbursements. Other causes of delays were the need to redesign works which had
not been adequately defined during Project preparation and to obtain the Bank's
approval of the changes. These delays caused an increase in Project costs and
delayed availability of industrial buildings.
38.         Counterpart Funds.  The Loan Agreement specified that Bank funds
would reimburse CFZ for specified pe7centages of expenditures under the Project.
Vlhile the conditions for effectiveness of ihe Bank loan were clear, evidence of
final conmmitments ard the jLses fir disbuLsement of other financing sources was
lacking.   In all, this caused a shortage of local funds and delays in the
payment of contractors, resulting in high financial charges paid by CFZ to
contractors and to the Bank for its commitment fees on the undisbursed loan
balance. Also, SENA did not provide as promised its counterpart contribution
for the construction of the CFZ's training center.CFZ's financial problems were
2 This section provides an unofficial translation mainly of the analytical
comments on the Project made in the completion report prepared by CFZ.  The
report also contains subslant id.l bhckgrmlnd  .nd description of the national
setting, Project preparation anC its implemeni;±Iion which is not included.



11
further aggrevated by the fact that sums amounting to nearly US$0.9 million
equivalent expended by CFZ on behalf of the Municipality of Cartagena in order
to complete the road and water works had not been reimbursed by the close of the
Project.
39.         The ability of CFZ to provide its own counterpart funds through
internal cash generation should have been better defined through a market study
of the possibilities for CFZ under Law 105. The Commercial Division of CFZ did
not generate the projected amounts due mainly to the proliferation of private
storage areas, duties established in 1932 which created disincentives for the
use of such areas, and restrictive regulations applied through 1985 on their use
given the views at the national level that they were used for contraband.
40.         The Export  Processing  Division  did not  generate  the  expected
counterpart funds for several reasons. Contracting and the financial problems
referred to above delayed the completion and rental of industrial buildings.
By 1982, four years after the Project began, only 4 buildings were ready
compared with an original projection of 50 buildings.  Weak demand for these
buildings by enterprises further slowed the rate of construction and the rental
income expected to provide counterpart funding.
41.         Rental Fees.   Rental rates were to be set according to the Loan
Agreement so as to yield a return of not less than 102 on investment. However,
one had to fix rates also considering their competitiveness with other zones in
Central America and the Caribbean. Rates in these areas as well as those within
Colombia were utilized as promotional tools to attract investors. According to
a Bank study in 1978, rates in Romania, the Dominican Republic and Colon, Panama
fell between US$1.00-1.50 per m2 per month, compared with US$1.50 in the CFZ.
By 1986, the other five zones in Colombia were charging rates which were
substantially below CFZ (US$0.84-1.00 per m2 vs. $1.50 per m2 by CFZ).  Regional
rates were generally higher ($1.40-3.14 in Central American countries, Jamaica,
Dominican Republic, Haiti and the Dutch Antilles).   In the absence of strong
demand over this period, increasing rates to achieve financial and econcmic
viability was a questionable strategy.
42.         Legal Framework.  The legislative framework for the Project did not
offer competitive incentives to investors until 1986.   The Shannon advisors
suggested modifications of Law 105 to address certain problems and
inflexibilities.  However, it is very important to note that they as well as
the Bank did not clearly detect that essentially the Statute did not offer
competitive corditions with other zones in the world for foreign investors or
in relation to other incentives in Colombia, such as Plan Vallejo, to promote
exports.   In particular, Law 105 was facilitating imports and mainly local
enterprises used it to supply their local markets, creating antagonism toward
the philosophy of the CFZ. For this reason, the free zones of Colombia did not
attract foreign investment nor much local investment.
43.         In 1985, after long debate in the country, Law 109 was approved and
totally changed the orientation of its free zones. It offered exchange, tax and
other incentives comparable to other zones in the region and demanded that
production be export-oriented. The positive effects of this new law and results
from promotion work were felt from the end of 1986. Until 1986, 6 enterprises



12
had established operations in the Export Processing Division of CFZ; during
1987-88 and the first half of 1989, 16 more were contracted.   During this
process, the CFZ applied stringently its evaluation criteria (export oriented,
strong employment effects, transfer of technology, etc.) to the search for and
review of applications by industries, leading in some cases to the rejection of
applications. The majority of the enterprises investing in the CFZ operate in
agroindustry and the metal mechanical sectors. No enterprises using advanced
technology or innovative products are among them.
44.         Organization.  As a public entity, CFZ is subject to the rigidities
in areas of staff appointments, mobility and contracting. Given that external
commerce is an area demanding dynamism and agility, there seems to be a valid
question about the impact of these rigidities on the operation of the Zone.
Clearly, the CFZ loses agility by it public nature in the selection and mobility
of staff under the slow and extensive public employment practices. The same is
true of contracting. Its advantages as a public entity are most obvious in such
matters as the revision of free zone legislation, where its staff was part of
the Government and represented no particular private interest.  Also the CFZ
maintained an important presence in the official missions of the Government in
the effort to attract private investment.
45.         Promotion.  In the absence of industrial buildings and a clear and
competitive legal framework for investment in Colombian free zones, the CFZ
could not develop before 1986 a promotion campaign of the dimensions originally
projected. From that time, however, the CFZ adopted the 1986-90 Promotion Plan,
which set out specific objectives, a division of labor between various
promotional entidies, geographical priorities, and an internal restructuring of
CFZ's administration. The campaign included a mission headed by the Minister
of Economic Development to Asia, where substantial interest in the CFZ was
expressed. In addition, Price Waterhouse was contracted to identify potential
investors in North America.   PW concluded inter alia that  (a) free zones
constituted an essential element in the integration of the Colombian economy in
the world economy, (b) its legal framework compared favorably with others, (c)
the external benefits of free zone promotion justified Government support of its
cost, (d) there was a strong relationship between the success of a promotion
program and the attractiveness of the general work and living environment of the
country, and (e) the efforts of the Government to project a positive image of
the country were most important and should continue.
2.2 Project Benefits and Financial Performance of CFZ
46.         The projected level of benefits from income received by the CFZ and
induced through its industrial activity fall substantially short of appraisal
estimates and are not expected to yield a positive return on the Project as it
is presently designed. It is suggested that, for the future, the net economic
benefits of CFZ should be calculated by excluding all of the obligations
contracted by CFZ for the infrastructural works, which are attributable to the
regional development for the community. With the delays in the Project and its
reduced scale, its employment effects were much lower than anticipated---716 vs.
5,000 directly employed and an estimated 6,000 vs. 10,000 indirectly employed



13
in 1989.  Agroindustry accounts for most of the indirect employment effects,
followed by communications and transport services.
47.         Given the delays in the physical works, reductions in the supply of
and demand for industrial buildings,  and rental fees lower than projected,
income of the Export Processing Division over 1979-87 was only 2Z of the
aggregate level projected.   For reasons mentioned above, profits from the
Commercial Division also fell substantially short of expectations. To meet its
obligations and maintain substantially the 65:35 debt: equity ratio stipulated
in the Loan Agreement, the Government has since 1983 met the payments due on the
Bank's loan to CFZ. Prospects suggests that no early change in this situation
is likely.
48.         In the absence of financial viability, the CFZ is exploring new
steps which would help to amortize the cost of existing infrastructure and
industrial buildings and to take advantage of the present incentives framework.
This effort must be based upon a realistic assessment of the capacity of
enterprises  and  their  market  potential.    It  might  involve  seeking  the
participation of the private sector to undertake land preparation and
construction of additional industrial buildings which might be administered by
CFZ.   As a general rule, the CFZ considers that a few buildings should be
available at all times as a promotional tool, though more should be constructed
only as demand materializes. Given its financial condition, CFZ is expected to
require support through the national budget or domestic bank credit to finance
this expansion.   There is no reason to expect that investments in industrial
buildings cannot be recovered over time with reasonable rental fees. What is
not realistic is to assume that such fees can recover the cost of infrastructure
and regional development which serve users outside of CFZ.
49.         The Project contributed very positively toward the training of
higher level professionals of CFZ in the field of external trade. Training has
generally justified its cost to the CFZ given relatively low staff turnover.
The CFZ's experience is also being shared through an agreement concluded in 1982
with the Cartagena University and Jorge Tadeo Lozano University under which it
trains students in external commerce. This, in turn, provides the potential to
continue to staff the CFZ and industrial enterprises using it with trained
personnel.
50.         Regarding the training center created by the Project to meet the
needs of industrialists in the CFZ, operations began only in 1988 given delays
in construction and supplies. Its start-up has been hindered by the limitations
of SENA to provide technical personnel and financing of training, and by the
tendency of industries installed in the CFZ to develop basic training in the
rural sector using established programs.  Hence, the center's activities are
being restructured so as to mainly coordinate the needs of CFZ users with
existing training systems for industry and agriculture.



14
2.3 Conclusions
51.         In retrospect,  the Project may be considered to have provided
innovations which should have longer term benefits and be useful to the
establishment of trade reform. In an area with notable ecological, urban and
business difficulties, an important investment was made in infrastructure. All
of this was defined by the Government as part of the Project, surely for
strategic reasons and to guarantee that a supervising entity would be available
and responsible for implementation as quickly as possible. This could explain
the tremendous financial burden accruing to CFZ.
52.         The definition of the touristic and industrial vocations of the city
of Cartagena need to carefully take into account its ecology and control over
environmental hazards. This is why the CFZ has had to promote industries with
low environmental contamination, high employment and income impact, and oriented
toward the use of renewable marine and agricultural resources.
53.         As a motor of export activity, CFZ began under the inadequate legal
framework of Law 105. It only began to play this role with the passage of Law
109 in December 1985, which substantially reoriented the free zone framework in
this direction and gave the CFZ attractive instruments with which to compete for
international business. CFZ played a fundamental role in bringing this change
about. Regarding the physical and industrial aspects of the Project, they was
hampered by both the delays in construction of th; works, slow installation of
enterprises in the CFZ, and consequent shortfalls in income as are all explained
above.
54.         These factors led to changes in Project design along the way,
notably the adjustment in the construction schedule for industrial buildings to
correspond to demand, more expeditious disbursements of the Bank loan through
the Special Account, the commitmert of national budgetary resources to service
the Bank's debt, and more precise market research and promotion work to secure
clients for the CFZ.   As an industrial development Project aimed mainly to
generate employment and exports, the CFZ should be relieved of its obligations
as they relate to regional development of Cartagena.  Once the Government has
defined the financial burden which the CFZ should assume in this respect, and
with adequate programming and budgeting of new investments as required by
industrial clients, the sources of financing for this purpose and their terms
should be defined.



15
Part III Statistical Data
Table 1: Project Timetable
Date             Date              Date
Item                           Planned          Revised            Actual
- Identification
(Executive Project                                              Dec-77
Summary)
- Preparation
- Appraisal Mission                                            09-Jan-78-
26-Jan-78
- Loan/Credit                                                  12-May-78-
Negociations                                                 17-May-78
- Board Approval                                               16-Jun-78
- Loan/Credit                                                  01-Aug-78
Signiture
- Loan/Credit                                                  01-Jan-79
Effectiveness
- Loan/Credit               31-Dec-83        31-Dec-84         30-Jun-87
Closing                                    31-Dec-85
31-Dec-86
- Loan/Credit               30-Jun-83        31-Dec-86         16-May-88
Completion                                 31-Dec-87
Source: LAC Files.



16
Table 2: Loan Disbursements (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate                                  15.0
Actual                                              14.7
Actual as ? of Estimate                             98.02
Date of Final Disbursement                 May 13, 1988
Disbursement Schedule:
Cumuwlative Disbursements
by certain date
Date                              Planned        Actual          z
September 30, 1978                    0.0            0.0
December 31, 1978                      2.5           0.0         02
September 30, 1979                    6.8            0.3         4Z
September 30, 1980                   10.8            1.9        182
March 31, 1981                        12.1           3.0        25?
June 30, 1981                        13.1            4.4        342
December 31, 1982                    13.1            6.0        46Z
June.30, 1982                        13.8            7.0        512
September 30, 1982                   14.6            6.2        422
April 12, 1983                       14.8            8.5        57?
March 31, 1984                        15.0          11.2        752
September 30, 1984                   15.0           11.4        76?
January 8, 1986                      15.0           13.1        872
March 25, 1987                        15.0          14.3        95Z
May 13. 1988                          1'.0          14.7        98Z
Source: LAC Files.



Table 3. Project Implementation
Appraisal Estimat                            I              Actual
Main                                     by which to monitor                           I              Stat, of
IndiA- rs                                      loan agr_ment                              I             Indicators
1) Industrial Area                --Development of 27 ha of industrial sites
and related services
--Development of 11 ha of general services area
--In Industrial sites, construction of 65 industrial  I --Only 22 constructed
buildings, ranging in size from 1200 to 1800 m2       I   Only 18 in intended location
with a cloer height of 8 to 8 mts.                         Two buildings presently empty
2) Supporting Infrastructure      --water Pipe                                                           2 --Completed 2. years behind schedu;e  J
I   Excoeded Expectations
--Pasacaballos-Ceballos Road                            I --Completed two years behind schedule
I   Exceeded Expectations
3) Vocational Center              --Construction, furnishing and equipping of             I --Constructed 5 years behind schedule.
60 place vocational center to train job seekers
in the CFZ                                            I
Source: LAC Files.



18
Tabie 4: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimato             Revised Estimate             Actual
Foreign
Local    Exchange
Item                                   Cooto    Costs a/    Total               Total                  Total
COMPONENT I
Export Processing Zone (EPZ)
Site Development                       2.4         2.1       4.6                5.0                    2.8
Utilities                              0.3          1.2      1.6                1.6                    7.3
Buildings                              0.6         3.8      10.4               11.4                    8.8
Construction Supervision               0.2         0.1       0.3                0.7                    2.2
Toechincal Assistance                  0.1         0.2       0.3
Base Cost                     9.6          7.4     17.0               18.7                    19.1
Contingencies
Physical (10)                      1.0         0.7       1.7                2.1                    2.6
Price                               2.8         1.9       4.7                5.8
Total EPZ                    13.4         10.0     23.4               26.6                   21.7
COMPONENT II
Supporting Infrastructure
Coballoo-Posacaballos Rd 1/            1.6          1.6      3.0                3.3                    5.9
Water Supply                           0 e         0.3       0.9                1.0                    1.7
Construction Supervision               0.1         0.0       0.1                0.1                    0.6
Base Cost                     2.2          1 .      4.0                4.4                     8.1
Contingecies
Physicel (10%)                      0.2         0.2       0.4
Price                               0.4         0.7       1.1
Total                         2.6          2.7     656                 4.4                     8.1
COMPONENT III
Vocational Training
Building and Equipment                 0.1         0.2       0.3                0.3                    0.3
(Contingencies included)                                                                               1.1
TOTAL COST OF WORKS          16.3         12.9     29.2               31.3                   31.2
Capitalized Interest                               2.1       2.1
GRAND TOTAL                  16.3         16.0     31.3               31.3                    31.2
Comments:
1/ A 20% physical contingency has been allowed for this component.



19
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing
B. Financing
Appraisal                   Actual
US$                          US$
Source                        Million         2            Million          Z
IBRD                             15.0      47.92               14.7     47.12
FFD-J                             2.8       8.92                1.9      6.12
Proexpo                                                         2.6      8.32
Valorization                      2.0       6.42                3.3     10.62
SENA                              0.1       0.3?
Hunicipality                       0.1      0.3?                1.1       3.5?
Counterpart                        4.2     13.42                6.2 /1  19.9?
Cash Generation                    7.2     23.02                1.4       4.5?
TOTAL                            31.3    100.0?                31.2    100.0?
Note: 1! Includes interest paid by the Colombian Government up to 1987.
Source: LAC Files.



20
Table 5: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal
Indicators                       Estimate           Actual
Building Area (m2)                  90.750          22,360
Direct Employment                  5-6,000              716
Exports                          50-60,000           13,000
Cost per Job                       5-6,000           44,000
Export per '000 invested             2,000              600
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal
Estimate          Actual
Financial
Rate of Return (Z)                       11       negative
Economic
Rate of Return (Z)                       13       negative
Source: LAC Files.



21
Table 6. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Number       Number       Performance
Stage of                                                of Days       of Staff        Rating
Project Cycle           Return Date of Mission         in Country   on Mission        Status
Through Appraisal       July 28, 1977                          10              2            n/a
September 30, 1977                    12              3             n/a
Appraisal through
Board Approval          April, 1978                            14              2            n/a
Supervision             August 28, 1978                         2              1              1
February 5, 1979                       6              2               2
October 5, 1979                        7              1               1
September 16, 1980                    16              2               2
February 21, 1981                      8              3               2
August 19, 1981                       15              1               2
March 8, 1982                          7              1               2
May 3, 1982                            7              1               2
June 8, 1982                           4              1               2
September 6, 1982                      7              1               2
March 18, 1983                        10              3               3
August 12, 1983                        5              1               3
April 2, 1984                         18              1               2
October 15, 1984                       8              2               2
March 23, 1985                         5              1               2
December 14, 1985                      6              1               3
March 12, 1987                         3              1               3
TOTAL STAFF WEEKS ON MISSIONS                               40.6
Comments: Since the World Bank Re-organization, data no longer exists concerning this
loan's staff inputs at headquarters.



22
Page I of 3
TABLE 7
STAllS OF KEY COVENANTS
COVENANT                                                    Status
Loan Agreement                    Conditions Met                                    Coditions not Met
ZFIC as result of financial
tion  3.01.  (a) The                                                                         difower shall carry out  citficulties did  not comply
Project, substantially in accordance with an                                              with    t h i s    clause
lementatbon schedule agreed between the                                                   Govemment  as  Guarantor
k and the Borrower, with due diligence and                                                officially agreed to provide
iciency and in conformity with appropriate                                                 all the necessary conterpart
onomic, administrabive, financial, engineering,                                            financing to complete prolect
vironmental and  promoton practices, and                                                    (see  Amendments  to  the
iall provide promptly as needed, the funds,                                                 Guarantee Agreement below)
cilities, services and other resources required
r the purpose (the funds to be provided by
le Borrower, In additon to the proceeds of the
oan, being on the date hereof estmated to
ggregate the equivalent of not less than
ixteen million three hundred thousand dollars
;16,300,000).
)For the carrying out of Part A (c) of thei
roject, the Borrower shall, (i) prepare a
etailed plan of action, satsfactory to the Bank:        X
nd (ii) every six months update such plan of
ction in a manner satisftactory to the Bank.
) The Borrower shall enter into a contract,
'sfactory to the Bank, with EPMC for: (i)
ning in detail the responsibilites (including          X
ncial   responsibilites),  functions   and
inistrative procedures of the Borrower and
.C, respecively, in respect of the carrying
ut of Part B (a) of the Project.
) The Borrower shall enter into a contract
tisfactory to the Bank, with Municilpo de
gena,  for  defining  in  detaii                       X
ponsibiibtes (including financial responsibilities),
ctions and administrative procedures of the
rrower  and   Muniicip    de   Cartacena.
pectvely, in reso   of u   carrying out ot
art B (b) of the Project.
(a) The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1978,
enter into a contract satsfactory to the Bank
SENA  for:   (i) defining in detail the
risibil  (ingfninoens),
km  and               procedure  Of tho
TIwer and Sea respecvely, in respec of                 X
,u carrying out  t Paut C ot tw  Pojw  aclnd
i) makmng avamiabe to SENA on tenns and
ondibons which shall be substantialiy the same
q those contained in this Agreement in respect
repaymer.t of principal of. and interest and
er charges on the Loan, t1e equivalent of
hundred thousand dollam ($200.W0) out of
,e proceeds of the Loan.
-on 3.07 (b) Wihut lImIing te generality
the provisions in paragraph (a) above, the
rrower shall employ for the Proect one
i,Justrial promoter, one engineer and  one               X
ccountant, all of whom shall have qualifications,
experience and terms and condiions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 504. The Borrower shall establish and
maintain, at all times, rental fees for the                                                   Due  to  low   industrial
commercial and industrial enterprises located in                                              building demand, Borrower
its commercial zone and the Export Processing                                                 did  not  establish   and
Zone at levels sufficient to enable the Borrower                                              maintain rental fees at levels
to generate a real return of not less than 10%                                                required by this Secton.
(or such other percentage as the Bank shall
agree) on the Borrower s investments in the
Export Processing Zone, such return to be
calculated in accordance with a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank.



23
TABLE i                                     Page 2 of 3
STATUS OF KEY COVENANTS
Status
COVENANT                       Conditions Met
Loan Aareeme                                                                     Conditions not Met
Section  5.05.   Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall maintain a debt-equity           X
ratio of not more than 65:35.                (as  at  end  of
1987)
Section  5.06.   Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, as from the                                           Due to the safre reasons
year 1981, maintain a ratio of current assets to                                           mentoned above, the rato
current liabilities of not less than 1.25 to 1.                                            of curent assets to curent
liabilies was 0.46 in 1987.
Section 5.07.  the Borrower shall obtain the
concurrence of the Bank before committing itself
to, or making, any capital expenditure not
included  in  the  Project  except that no              X
concurrence of the Bank shall be required in
respect of capital expenditures up  to  an
aggregate annual amount not exceeding the
equivalent of one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars $150,000).
GUARANTEE AGREBMENT
Section 2.02.  Without limitation or restrictlon
upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, the Guarantor shall:
(i) whenever there ia a reasonable cause
to believe the L..; funds available to
the Borrows  wit be inadequate to
meet  the  estimated  expendires              X
required for th carryin out at the
Project, make or cause to be made .
arrangunies satfwtaIy to thw Bnk,
to enable the Borrow  arorrtip  to be
provided with such funds as are
needed to meet such expenditures;
(ii) provide or cause to be pr,ovIded tD 
the Borrrower: (1) promptly as required,      X
in the years 1978, 1979, 1980 and    (as  at  end  ot
1981 eqtuity in amunts equivalent to   1987)
seven hundred fifty thousand dodlar
($750,000), one millbon dollars
($1,000,000),  one  million  dollars
($1,000,000)   and   five   hundred
thousand    dollars   ($500,000),
respectively; (2) as a  loan  make
tnrough  the  Fondo  Fnanciero  de
Desarrollo Urbano of Banco Central
Hipotecano, the equivalent otf two
minioniigeigt hundred thousand dollars
($2,800,000); and
(ii )  provide or cause to be provided to
Instituto   Nacional   de   Fomento
Municipal for turther transfer to EPMC          X
rorffte carrying out of Part B (a) of   (as  at  end  of
the Project, promptly at required in   1987)
the year 1979, an amount equivalent
to eight hundred thousand dollars
($800,000).



24
TABLE 7                                    Page 3 of 3
STATUS OF KEY COVENANTS
Conditions Met
AMENDMENTS TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT                                        Status
IFebruary 24, 1 9S4)
Borrower    has                                  Conditions not Met
complied  by  not
contracting   tor
Section 3 01 (h) the Borrower shall not commit  further  industrial
itsel to, nor make, any caprtal expenditure    b u i I d i n g
regarding the constructon of any building or   construction    as
site preparaton under Part A (a) of the Project   long as three or
and of any works under Part B (a) and (b) of   more    buildings
the Project unless the Bank shall be satsfied   remain unoccupied
that there is sufficient demand from potental
users for such buildings or sites and the Bank
shall  have  approved  the  design   and
construction schedules for such buildings, sites
and works
AMENDMENTS TO THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(February 24, 1984)                        X
Section  2 02  (ii) (3) promptly as required
budgetary contributons in an amount of not
less than: (a) Col$25,000,000 during the penod
January 1, 1984 to September 30, 1984: and
(b)  Col$353,000,000  thereafter,  until  the
completon of the Project.
x
Section 2 02. (iv) any amounts paid by the
Guarantor to the Bank pursuant to Section 2 01
of this Agreement in respect of the payment of
principal, interest and other charges on the
Loan due and payable dunng the years 1983.
1984. 1985 and 1988 shall be converted into
equiy contributon3 made by the Guarantor to
the borrower.



25
Design of the CFZ Export Processing Zone
N./~~~~~~~~~
7-vL..=



