Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    FILE  CO P Y
Report No. 1 973b -CO
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
May 24, 1978
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
(December 31, 1977)
Currency Unit            Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1              =      Col$38.112
Col$1             =      US$0.0262
Col$1,000,000     =      US$26,238
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AELC           European Free Trade Association.(EFTA)
ALALC          Latin America Free Trade Association (LAFTA)
BR             Banco de la Republica
CAT            Certificado de Abono Tributario
CDI            Consorcio de Ingenierias y Investigaciones
CORELCA        Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
DANE           National Statistics Department
DFC            Development Finance Company
ELECTRIBOL     Electrificadora de Bolivar
EPMC           Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena
EPZ            Export Processing Zone
INCOMEX        Instituto Colombiano. de Comercio Exterior
INSFOPAL       Instituto de Fomento Municipal
MOP            Ministry of Public Works
NBDC           North Bolivar Development Corporation
PROEXPO        Export Promotion Fund
SENA           Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
ZFIC           Cartagena Industrial and Commercial Free Zone
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....................................................  
II.    THE REGIONAL SETTING                    ..............    ..........            1
A.   The Regional Economy  ...........................                         2
B.   Migration,  Employment and Income Levels                                  2
C.   Related Activities  in the Area ....                .............         4
III.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ........  ..................... . . . . ... *.  .         5
A.   Structure and Growth  ..... ....            ...............  .            5
B.   Industrial  Incentives  ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .     7
C.   Industrial Free Zones  ........................ so.                      11
IV.    ZONA FRANCA INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL DE CARTAGENA
(ZFIC) ........................................................              13
A.  Establishment of ZFIC of Cartagena ............                           13
B. Comparative Advantages of the Cartagena Export
Processing Zone ........ . . . .  .............................. .      14
C.   Objectives of the Export Processing Zone ..s....                         15
D.   Promotion .......             ..................................         17
E.   Institutional Aspects of ZFIC               .................            18
V.    THE PROJECT ............................. ...... ....                         20
A.   General Description             ...........................              20
B.   Detailed Features  . ................. ... ... .s.o..  .                21
C.   Project Management  ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   28
D.   Project Execution Schedule .....              ...............            29
VI.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN  ........... . ......                        30
A.   Project Costs  . ...........  ........ .. ..........                     30
B.   Financing Plan .......  ........... . .......  . . . . . . . .  .       32
C.   Allocation of Bank Funds                   ......................       34
D.   Procurement and Disbursement  ........... . ......                       35
VII.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  .............................             .....            37
A.  Revenue  .....................................                            37
B.   Income and Cash Flow Forecasts  ..              * ........::            40
C.   Financial Position and Audit  ..................                        41
D.   Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis                        43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VIII.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND PROJECT RISKS ...........      43
A.  Economic Rate of Return ........................      43
B.  Other Economic Benefits .................. o..o       46
C.  Cost per Job ...................................      47
D.    Project  Risks   ......   .......  ........ ..... . ...   .........  *.  .. .  47
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND LOAN CONDITIONS ..o ...........     48              4
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - The Economic Rate of Return - Calculation of Induced Benefits
Annex 2 - Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule for the Bank Loan
Annex 3 - Supporting Tables and Charts
Annex 4 - Related Documents Available in the Project File
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions which visited
Colombia at various times during the latter half of 1977 and in January 1978.
The missions comprised Messrs. Bobb, Bentley, Simon, Santiago (LCPID), Goderez
(IDFD), Pinilla (LCPHW), Gouveia (URB), Rodriguez (LCPWS), and Hemmingway
(Cons.).



COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Six free zones 1/ were legally created in Colombia by Law 105 of
1958, all of which have now been established. The free zones are "Esta-
blecimientos Publicos" (Public Establishments) attached to the Ministry of
Economic Development, and as such are given substantial autonomy to manage
r        their own affairs, conduct business, and incur local and foreign debt.  One
of these, the Cartagena Industrial and Commercial Free Zone (ZFIC), has been
preparing a major investment project to establish an industrial export pro-
cessing zone (EPZ) near Cartagena for the past five years.  In mid-1977 the
Bank was asked by the government to study the possibility of making a loan
to cover the foreign exchange component of this project.
1.02      This project would be the first Bank-supported EPZ project in Latin
America and would complement past lending in the industrial sector in Colombia.
Since 1966 the Bank has made six loans totalling US$242.5 million to Banco de
la Republica (BR), Colombia's Central Bank, for on-lending to industries
through private Colombian development finance companies (financieras). Addi-
tionally, the Bank has made two loans to BR totalling US$20.5 million for
on-lending to small-scale industry through Corporacion Financiera Popular, a
public development bank. The financiera loans have supported manufactured
exports, and DFC loans since 1975 have supported specifically regional decen-
tralization of industry, both primary objectives of the proposed project.
1.03      The principal objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) support
the government's industrial decentralization policy by creating a fully
serviced export processing zone near Cartagena; (ii) expand non-traditional
manufactured exports; (iii) improve income and living standards among the
unemployed and underemployed by providing some 5-6,000 mainly low-skill jobs;
and (iv) provide an economic base for a proposed urban poverty program in the
Cartagena area. This report appraises a proposed Bank loan of US$15 million
to ZFIC, with the guarantee of the government to support the EPZ project.
II. THE REGIONAL SETTING
2.01      The Department of Bolivar is a large elongated state in the north
of Colombia with its capital and port at Cartagena. The city itself, which
has a population of about 400,000, is relatively well developed, due mainly
to the impacts of tourism, while the rest of the department is relatively
1/   Although features vary from country to country, a free zone is basically
a designated geographical area within which tariffs or other import
restrictions of the host country would not apply.



-2-
backward. The location of Cartagena has also made it the port city for
Medellin, one of Colombia's principal industrial cities, and an important
commercial center. As with many Latin American countries that border on
the Caribbean, the coastal population reflects many characteristics of
the Caribbean, including a wide racial and ethnic mix, while the population
of the interior is principally of Spanish and native Indian origins.
A. The Regional Economy
2.02      The Department of Bolivar has a primarily agricultural economy
(Annex 3, Table 1). Almost one third of value added in the department in
1975 was generated in agricultural activities, primarily livestock-rearing
which alone accounts for about one third of sectoral value aLdded. The
main crops are cassava, bananas, rice, tobacco, maize, sugar cane, coffee,
cocoa and cotton. Commercial deep-sea fishing has grown rapidly in the
Atlantic coastal area since the mid-1960s, and contributed significantly
to the increase in the share of fisheries from about 2% of agriculture value
added in the department in 1965 to about 8% in 1975.
2.03      The manufacturing sector, which is dominated by the petrochemicals
industry, is the second largest sector in the departmental economy. Over the
period 1960-74 sectoral value added in real terms grew at an annual average
rate of 9.6%, compared to a national average of about 7%. The main focus
of industrial growth in the department was the highly capital-intensive
chemicals industry, which developed around the Exxon refinery and whose
share in sectoral value added rose from 9% to 51% during this period of rapid
growth. The manufacture of chemicals and oil refining are located mainly in
the Mamonal district, the only part of the coast near Cartagena zoned for
industrial use and adjacent to the site of the proposed EPZ project.
2.04      Tourism contributes relatively little to value added at the depart-
mental level, but deserves special mention because it is a major source of
jobs in Cartagena itself. Key factors in the development of tourism in
Cartagena are good weather, beaches and the appeal of Cartagena's Spanish
colonial architecture and charm. In 1969-76 there was substantial invest-
ment in tourist facilities in Cartagena with the result that the number of
hotels and hotel rooms increased from 11 and 651 to 34 and 1560, respectively.
It is estimated that tourism has generated directly and indirectly about
12,000 jobs in the Cartagena area since the mid-1960s.
B. Migration, Employment and Income Levels
2.05      In common with Colombia's other major cities, Cartagena has ex-
perienced a higher than country average population growth--about 5.6%
p.a.--for several decades. Cartagena is the main focus of mLgration within
the department and exerts a particularly strong influence on migration from
the adjacent "municipios" (Arjona, Mahates, Santa Catalina, Santa Rosa,
Turbaco, Turbana, and Villanueva) in the northern part of the department.
These towns comprise the Cartagena primary zone of influence!, bounded roughly
by the Caribbean Sea on the west, the Canal del Dique on the south and
southwest, and the Department of Atlantico on the east. In turn, they are a



-3-
first stage reception area for migrants from the rest of the department.
The table below shows the distribution and growth of the departmental
population among Cartagena, its adjacent towns, and the rest of the
department between the census years 1964 and 1973. The population of
Cartagena has been growing more than six times faster than the rest of the
department, and the population in its adjacent towns about four times faster
than the interior. As a result, by 1973 about one third of the Cartagena
area's population were recent migrants living principally in small settlements
close to the city and the proposed project site, e.g., Pasacaballos, and in a
slum area known as the Southeast Zone situated in the city itself.
Table 2.1: Bolivar-Distribution and Growth of Population by Sub-Region, 1964-73
1964-73
1964                      1973           Annual
No.       %              No.       %     Growth Rate
Cartagena                 218,000       33          356,000     42          5.6
Adjacent Municipios        82,000       12           98,000      12         1.9
Other Department          370,000       55          387,000     46          0.5
TOTAL                     670,000      100          841,000    100          2.5
Source: CDI. Estudio de migracion y fuerza de trabajo en el Departamento
de Bolivar, v. 2, Tables 1, la, and 1964 and 1973 DANE Census.
2.06      The Department of Bolivar has much higher unemployment than the
average for Colombia, in spite of the fairly rapid growth of the departmental
economy. According to the 1973 census the rate of unemployment in Bolivar,
excluding Cartagena, was 24% compared to a national average of 14%. In
Cartagena itself an estimated 19% of the economically active population was
unemployed at the time of the census and roughly one fifth of the employed
worked for six months or less in the year. Although tourism has created an
estimated 12,000 jobs since the mid-1960s and direct employment in manufact-
uring industry rose 5.6% annually from 5,960 in 1969 to 8,320 in 1975--about
400 new jobs per year--job creation in the Cartagena area has not been adequate
to absorb new entrants to the labor force. Also, surveys indicate that the
majority of these formal sector jobs have gone to workers from other major
cities due to their generally greater job skills and work experience, and that
the native Bolivar population has not received substantial direct benefits
from this growth. The proposed EPZ project would contribute to mitigating the
unemployment problem by creating an estimated 5-6,000 new jobs directly,
increasing manufacturing employment by more than 50% in the area, and up to
10,000 indirectly through linkages by 1983.
2.07      The expectation of greater employment opportunities in the Cartagena
area is the major cause of migration towards Cartagena. Although close to
half of the departmental population outside Cartagena lives in "cabeceras"



- 4 -
(district headquarters), only one cabecera had more than 25,000 inhabitants
and virtually all others had fewer than 10,000 in 1973. These are essentially
rural settlements dependent on agriculture, which does not generate sufficient
new jobs, partly because of the great importance of livestock-raising, an
activity which uses relatively little labor.
2.08      Migrant workers are an important segment of the inemployed and under-
employed workers in the Cartagena area. The Southeast Zone residents and
recent migrants from the interior of Bolivar, who will be among the primary
beneficiaries of the proposed project, constitute a large part of the urban
poor of the Cartagena area. They have only a few years of primary education
at best, and are more often self-employed or hired on a daily basis than
other workers in Cartagena. A relatively high proportion work in agriculture
and services, including petty trading and domestic services, which are low
productivity sectors and occupations, so that migrants have low incomes com-
pared to the average for Cartagena. ZFIC would promote the hiring of natives
of Bolivar in the EPZ, particularly those who have not yet benefitted sub-
stantially from the modern sector development of the area. Creating this growth
pole outside the city of Cartagena would tend to slow migration into the city
and avoid exacerbation of the slum problems in the Southeast Zone.
C. Related Activities in the Area
2.09      Through a number of public agencies, the following social services
are currently being provided in the Cartagena area:
(i) pre-school and primary school programs;
(ii) health and nutrition programs;
(iii) adult education in cultural, recreational, health, literacy,
and community participation programs;
(iv) childcare programs for working women;
(v) minimum public services (water, power, and sewerage);
(vi) assistance and credit for home improvement; and
(vii) credit and technical assistance for small enterprises.
In April 1978 the Bank appraised an urban development projec:t primarily for
the Southeast Zone of Cartagena. This project would include mainly the
physical upgrading of the Southeast Zone and the provision of some of the
above services under the overall coordination of the Instituto de Credito
Territorial's (Colombia's national housing agency) Cartagena branch. Social
programs in the small towns around the EPZ are now being defined, and the
appraisal mission of the Cartagena Southeast Zone project has proposed
Bank financing of some road and water supply facilities in Pasacaballos,
the small town nearest the EPZ. The government has appropriated Col$8 million
for 1978 for ZFIC to continue its work of coordinating social programs in the



small towns near the EPZ. The income generated by the EPZ would enable the
residents to pay for the social services and public utilities.
2.10      Loan 1072-CO is financing the current expansion of the water supply
systems in the Cartagena area to meet demand through 1982. The Bank plans to
appraise in 1979 the Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) III project
that would further expand water supply systems in the Cartagena area to meet
demand through 1988. The executing agency in the Cartagena area for these
projects is Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena (EPMC). The revenues
generated from the provision of water for the EPZ would assist in financing
this further expansion of the water systems (para. 7.01). The Servicio
Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA) has tentative plans to construct an industrial
training center across the road from the proposed site for the EPZ industries.
A Bank education mission is expected to visit Colombia for preliminary
discussions with SENA of a project that might include this center. Since that
project is in a very preliminary stage, the proposed project includes funds
for a small vocational training center (para. 5.21) for the EPZ that would be
adequate for the needs of the project and that could become one division
of the larger center SENA might build. Finally, Corporacion Eletrica de
la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), the regional power company, plans to complete
a 50 MW substation next to the proposed EPZ site that would be more than
sufficient to ensure adequate power to the EPZ through the foreseeable future.
This substation will be supplier financed.
2.11      In light of these substantial development plans for the Cartagena
area, the departmental government has formed the North Bolivar Department
Corporation (NBDC) to undertake planning and coordination of the proposed
projects. The manager of ZFIC is chairman of NBDC and is anxious to ensure
that the development of the EPZ forms an integral part of the regional
development effort. Close coordination of the proposed project and the
broader regional developmental program will be mutually beneficial, since
the investment of substantial public and private resources in the EPZ, and
its job-generating effects, will create both a need for expanded social
services and an economic base to help cover their costs.
III. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.   Structure and Growth
3.01      Manufacturing industry has grown at about 8% p.a. over the past
decade, and is the second largest economic sector in Colombia, surpassed
only by agriculture. In 1976 manufacturing contributed about 19% of GDP
compared to 16% in the early 1960s, and about 17% of the employed population
was working in the manufacturing sector. The sector is well diversified, with
food, beverages, textiles, chemicals, petroleum products, non-metallic minerals,
and transport equipment accounting for over two thirds of sector value added
and about 54% of employment in manufacturing. The relative shares of consumer,
intermediate and capital goods in production and employment have remained
roughly constant since the late 1960s, although there have been shifts within



-6-
the groups (Annex 3, Table 2). Among consumer goods the largely traditional
branches of food, beverages and tobacco declined while textiles and clothing
increased significantly. Paper, non-metallic minerals (primarily cement) and
chemicals have increased their shares of the intermediate goods sector, and
mechanical machinery increased relative to other capital goods.
3.02      Exports.  Until the mid-1960s coffee had been the mainstay of
Colombian exports. The only other exports of any importance were a few agri-
cultural products--bananas, raw cotton, tobacco, timber, and a small amount of
crude oil; manufactured goods constituted less than 5% of total export earnings.
Thus Colombia's balance of payments was highly sensitive to world coffee
prices.  Following the export promotion measures introduced in 1967 (paras.
3.07-3.11), this strong dependence on a single commodity was sharply reduced
as non-traditional or so-called "new" exports began to be exported in large
quantities. By 1974 the value of new exports reached US$792 million, of which
nearly 50% were manufactured products. In the same year new exports accounting
for 56% of the total export earnings of US$1.4 billion surpassed the share of
coffee (Annex 3, Table 3).
3.03      As shown in Table 3.1 below, the rapid increase in the share of
new exports and a corresponding decline in the importance of coffee exports
characterized the new export structure. However, there has been a temporary
change in this trend due to depressed world trade in the lasit several years
and recent high coffee prices. In 1976 non-traditional exports, including
industrial exports, recovered some of the ground lost in 19715, reaching again
the level of 1974 in nominal terms. Then, in early 1977, in an attempt to
offset some of the inflationary effects of the exceptionally large foreign
exchange inflows resulting from high international coffee priLces, the govern-
ment froze the exchange rate for several months. Moreover, potential
exportables were diverted to the domestic market to absorb some of the excess
aggregate demand created by the coffee bonanza. Although only partial data
are available, apparently non-coffee exports expanded very little during 1977.



-7-
Table 3.1: STRUCTURE OF EXPORT REGISTRATIONS
(% of total exports)
1967          1974           1976
Coffee                       72.4           44.0           56.2
Other Agriculture            13.6           21.5           16.6
Manufactures                  5.9           27.4           22.1
Minerals                       -             0.6            1.2
Other                         8.1            6.5            3.9
Total New Exports            27.6           56.0           43.8
A number of important shifts in the composition of exports accompanied this
structural change. In the manufacturing sector 38% of total exports were
non-agricultural based products requiring a higher degree of elaboration,
such as chemicals, metallic products, mechanical and machinery equipment,
and paper products. These new products demonstrated the capacity of
Colombian industries to compete internationally and penetrate new markets.
This is reinforced by the proliferation in the number of exporting firms
and export items from 800 enterprises producing 858 items in 1967 to 2,599
firms with 1,688 items in 1976. However, the sudden jump in the number and
variety of exportable items has not altered basically the heavy commodity
concentration of manufactured exports as shown in Annex 3, Table 4, with
the main manufactured exports being food products, textiles, chemicals,
clothing, and cement.
3.04      Data on exports (Annex 3, Table 5) to various regions indicate
that the largest market growth occurred within the Andean region, with
Andean Pact members (Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, and Chile
(until 1977)) increasing their share of Colombia's non-traditional exports
from 14% in 1968 to 33% in 1976. Developing countries together purchased 53%
of these exports in 1976, substantially more than their 32% share in 1968.
The European Common Market has also grown substantially as a market for
Colombian exports (21% in 1976) and surpassed North America (20%) as the
second most important market.
B.   Industrial Incentives
3.05      In the post-war period, Colombia, along with most other Latin
American countries, adopted industrialization as an important objective of
its general economic development strategy. For about two decades indus-
trialization efforts were oriented towards import substitution, and the
Colombian Government adopted a set of policies aimed at protecting the
national market for such industries. However, by the mid-1960s the govern-
ment began to recognize that further import substitution did not offer
sufficient scope for continued rapid growth of manufacturing industry.



- 8 -
In addition, balance of payments constraints caused in part by weak coffee
prices, suggested that Colombia should diversify its export base, and manu-
facturing industry seemed to have good potential for developing exports.
Therefore, in 1967 the government began developing and promoting a set of
export promotion policies as a means of reducing the bias against exports
embedded in the system of protection geared to fostering import substitution.
3.06      The system of protection.  The three key elements in the
system of protection have been (i) an ad valorem tariff, (ii) prior deposits
for imports, and (iii) import licensing. Tariffs average only about 13% of
total imports, but rates vary widely between categories of goods and among
different goods within the same category.  Basically, duties are low on
industrial raw materials and capital goods and high on consumer durables
and non-durables produced in Colombia. Total or partial duty exemptions
are provided to imports from the Andean Common Market and other LAFTA 1/
countries for some basic industries (e.g. sulphur, iron and steel, and
fishing), purchases by some public sector entities, and purchases by export
manufacturers. The structure of the tariff is such as to afford significant
protection for goods produced in Colombia. The need to make prior deposits
for imports has fostered the growth of commercial free zones in Colombia,
because the deposit need be made only after the imported goods leave the
free zone instead of on the date of granting of the import lLcense. Import
licensing, formerly the most significant trade barrier used by Colombia,
has decreased in importance recently due to Colombia's favorable balance of
payments situation. The majority of imports are now classifiLed on the free
list and licenses are easy to obtain on the remainder. Also, Colombia now
grants special licenses reducing tariffs to 5% of c.i.f. price for virtually
all machinery imports.
3.07      Export promotion.  The government has stressed export diversification
over the last ten years.   The "crawling peg" exchange rate policy introduced
in 1967 tends to take account of the effect of domestic inflation on the
external value of the peso. Also, a set of incentive measures enacted in
Decree 444 of March 1967 gave exporters (a) a fiscal incentive on exports,
(b) a drawback system on import duties, and (c) concessionary credit for export-
related activities. Various changes of detail have occurred subsequently as
described below, but the set of export promotion measures remains essentially
the same today.
3.08      The fiscal incentive is a system whereby exporters of non-traditional
products are granted tax credit certificates ("certificado de abono tributario"
or CAT) equivalent to a fixed percentage of the value of exports. CATs, which
are non-taxable, may be used for paying any tax liabilities on maturity, gene-
rally six months after issue, and are freely traded on the stock exchanges.
CATs were originally granted at 15% of the f.o.b. value of eligible exports, but
the fiscal cost of the incentive increased rapidly and by 1974 had reached
a peak of Col$2.3 billion or about 8% of national government current revenues.
The rates were reduced in 1975 to 5% of f.o.b. value for most products and
1/   Latin American Free Trade Area.



- 9 -
virtually eliminated for others because of the high fiscal burden, increasing
abuse by means of fictitious exports, and frictions with Colombia's trade
partners. Most manufactured exports are classified in the 8% category.
By 1976 the value of CATs issued in the year was down to Col$1 billion
and CATs actually used in payment of taxes were valued at Col$691 million
or 1.4% of national government current revenues. On January 1, 1978 the
highest rate was raised from 8% to 12%, partly to offset the disincentive
to exporters arising from the fact that recent depreciation of the Colombian
peso has not fully compensated for the difference between domestic and inter-
national inflation.
3.09      The drawback system, known as Plan Vallejo, was first introduced
on a selective basis in 1959. The scheme permits raw materials and machinery
for use in the manufacture of non-traditional export products to be imported
exempt from regular import license, advance deposit and payment of import
duties. Essentially, this plan offers freedom from import restrictions
similar in principle to those offered in a free zone. The manufacturer signs
a contract with INCOMEX and has to demonstrate that the imported goods are
used in producing merchandise subsequently exported. Exporters who operate
under the Plan Vallejo qualify for CATs on the value added of the product,
subject to a minimum national value added of 50%. Essentially, the Plan
Vallejo is a means whereby export-oriented manufacturers do not tie up funds
in the payment of duties and/or prior deposits and also maintain flexibility
by not having to obtain regular import licences.  However, owing to its
administrative requirements, the system is more advantageous for established,
sizeable exporters than for new exporters or smaller exporting firms. Imports
under the Plan Vallejo rose from about US$17 million in 1967 to a peak of
US$119 million in 1974, and were US$88 million in 1976. The corresponding
value added of net exports (i.e., excluding the import content of exported
products) was about US$25 million in 1967 and about US$248 million or 62% of
net exports of manufactured goods in 1976. Enterprises operating under Plan
Vallejo have developed further linkages with the domestic economy so that the
local value added rose from around 60% of output in 1967 to about 74% in 1976.
3.10      The Export Promotion Fund (PROEXPO) provides concessionary credit
and technical assistance to exporters and undertakes promotion of Colombia and
its products overseas. PROEXPO's sources of funds are a 5% import surcharge,
which provided about 62% of its resources at the end of 1976, and lines of
credit from the Banco de la Republica. Loans are made to exporters in local
and foreign currency, primarily for working capital but also for fixed asset
purchases and for export credits to purchasers of Colombia's non-traditional
exports. Most credits are granted in local currency for six months at a 10%
annualized interest rate, while similar commercial credits cost about 32%.
PROEXPO's outstanding credits in local currency rose from about Col$34 million
at the end of 1967 to Col$6 billion in December 1976. Most of the increase
occurred from mid-1973 as a result of access to new Central Bank credit lines,
an administrative change to direct payment of the import surcharge to the
Central Bank rather than through the Treasury, and raising the import surcharge
in October 1975. Manufacturing enterprises received about 70% of the
local currency loans outstanding at the end of 1976. PROEXPO also provides



- 10 -
export credit insurance for exporters of non-traditional products. Exporters
located in free zones can obtain PROEXPO credits on the local value added of
their production.
3.11      PROEXPO has established a good capability for promotion of Colombian
exports. It has offices in the United States and in several European and
Latin American countries. It has participated in several international trade
fairs and organized special displays of Colombian exports in various countries.
In addition it has given assistance and advice to exporters concerning trans-
portation, packaging and storage, and provides a reference service on marketing
for Colombian producers. PROEXPO would play a major role in supporting this
project (para. 4.10).
3.12      Location of industry.  Colombia has a high degree of urbanization
compared to most other Latin American countries, although there is no single
primary urban center. About 70% of the population live in the country's 30
medium-sized and large cities, but industry is heavily concentrated in the
four largest cities (Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla)'. In 1975, 68%
of value added in manufacturing and 72% of employment originated in the metro-
politan area of these four main industrial cities. Medium-sized industrial
centers which have been established in the post-war period either highly
specialize, such as petrochemicals in Cartagena, oil refining in Barrancabermeja,
and steel forging in Bucaramanga, or produce consumer goods such as food,
leather, clothing, building materials, and furniture, depending on local
agricultural production of raw materials.
Table 3.2: COLOMBIA - LOCATION OF INDUSTRY, 1975
Metropolitan Area          Employment           Production           Value Added
…_____________________  %             …-------------------------
Bogota                         29.0               27.7                  26.6
Medellin                       23.0               18.6                  19.5
Cali                           12.3               13.2                  13.9
Barranquilla                    7.7                8.0                   7.7
Cartagena                       1.8                4.0                   4.4
Other                          26.2               28.5                  27.9
TOTAL                         100.0              100.0                 100.0
Source: DANE. Boletin mensual de estatistica, February 1977.



- 11 -
3.13      In May 1975 the government outlined a new policy of industrial
decentralization in order to encourage further development of industry in
the nation's secondary cities. The rapid growth of the main industrial cities
is putting increasing pressure on infrastructure facilities such as electricity
supply, water, waste disposal, telecommunications, and urban transportation,
and atmospheric and water pollution are becoming increasingly serious problems.
At the same time, income and employment disparities between the major cities
and the second-tier towns and cities are increasing, although many of these
smaller cities are strategically located to serve important internal and
external markets. Among the policy instruments being used by the government
to encourage the prudent development of industry in the smaller cities are:
(i) controls over the location of new direct foreign investment; (ii) increased
allocation of public investment for upgrading infrastructure facilities in the
smaller cities; (iii) preferential access to official development credit
sources for decentralization projects; (iv) promotion of industrial parks and
free zones such as ZFIC in some of the intermediate cities, and (v) greater
emphasis on manpower training and technical assistance for firms located in
the smaller cities. The Bank has been supporting the industrial decentraliza-
tion policy under the sixth DFC loan (1223-CO), first and second small-scale
industry (1071-CO and 1451-CO), and fourth Telecommunications (1450-CO) loans.
C.   Industrial Free Zones
3.14      The establishment of industrial and commercial free zones has been
a part of Colombia's industrial development and export diversification policy
for about twenty years. Law 105 of 1958 decreed the creation of free zones in
Barranquilla, Buenaventura, Cali, Cucuta, Cartagena and Santa Marta. All have
now been established, the first being Barranquilla in 1959 and the last Santa
Marta in 1976. However, little has been achieved so far in developing
industrial export activity within the free zones, mainly because of the high
profitability of commercial activities, the similarity of benefits offered
under Plan Vallejo (para. 3.09), and, until recently, the lack of firm action
by the government to encourage the free zones to promote industrial export
processing.
3.15      Barranquilla, the most developed of the existing free zones in
Colombia, is primarily a commercial operation with some 42 commercial enter-
prises. While for the above mentioned reasons industrial exports of the
zone have not been stressed, at present there are 26 manufacturing enterprises
operating in the Barranquilla free zone. Most are "screwdriver" industries
with low value added, selling mainly to the Colombian market, and virtually
all have been established since 1972. The main activities are garments (11
firms), leather goods (5 firms), food processing and glass (2 firms each),
employing about 2,230 persons in 1976. Cali, the only other free zone with
industrial activity, has attracted 7 enterprises since 1974. Total employment
is about 900, with firms engaged in the manufacture of shoes, clothing,
ornaments and food processing. The other free zones are still in an embryonic
stage and have not as yet developed industrial activity.



- 12 -
3.16      The government has begun to emphasize the development of free zones
as industrial export processing centers. The commercial operations are seen
as a means of generating funds for financing the initial costs of the indus-
trial export activity, so that free zones rely less heavily on budgetary
support from the government. The development of EPZs could provide a means
of fostering the twin objectives of export diversification and industrial
decentralization. In contrast to commercial free zones, EPZs are potentially
a major source of jobs and can, therefore, have a significant impact on the
economy of the area in which they are located. Also, the choice of location
for EPZs is viewed by the government as a means of promoting greater invest-
ment and employment in manufacturing industry in the secondary cities without
incurring burdensome fiscal subsidies.
3.17      The special treatment of free zone industries derives mainly from
the extra-territorial character of the free zone, which exempts foreign in-
vestors from the Colombian laws and regulations governing forieign exchange
transactions, profit remittances, and repatriation of capital, and from the
foreign investment rules 1/ of the Andean Common Market. Correspondingly,
exporters from free zones to Andean Group countries do not normally benefit
from the customs liberalization. 2/ As with any imports from abroad, products
entering the Colombian market from a free zone are exempt from import duty
only on the national share of gross value, while sales elsewhere in the Andean
Group are fully dutiable. Unlike other foreign-owned enterpriLses, those
industries located in free zones do not have a legal obligation to pass
foreign exchange earnings to the Central Bank and there are no restrictions
on remittances of profits and capital.
3.18      Administratively, free zones offer the advantage of allowing the
free zone manager to deal directly with foreign investors, thus avoiding
much of the bureaucratic process involved in registering capital and
handling foreign exchange. In summary, while the regulations for foreign
investors not located in free zones but operating under the regular export
incentives (para. 3.07) and those for the free zones are somewhat similar,
there are several key differences worth noting:
1/   Under the foreign investment regulations of the Andean Common Market
(Cartagena Agreement, Decision 24), foreigners are permitted to
retain majority interest only in those manufacturing enterprises
exporting 80% or more of their output outside the Common Mlarket.
2/   A firm located in a free zone that meets Andean Pact regulations,
mainly a majority of local ownership, could qualify for Andean Pact
benefits.



- 13 -
Comparison of Features of Regular Export Incentives and the Free Zones
Regular Incentives                                 Free Zones
(1)  Foreign exchange earned must be sold         (1)  All foreign exchange earned
to the Central Bank.                              may be remitted abroad.
(2)  If a new investment is involved,             (2)  No government authorization
authorization is required.                        needed to set up operations.
(3)  At least 50% of the value of the             (3)  No requirement of local
export must be locally added to use               added value.
Plan Vallejo.
(4)  A re-export guarantee is essential.          (4)  No need to give any guarantee
to re-export.
(5)  CATs are obtainable on the full              (5)  CATs are available only for the
value of the exports, but excluding               amount of local added value.
any inputs imported under Plan Vallejo.
(6)  If Andean Pact requisites are                (6)  Andean Pact benefits are not
complied with, tariff reduction                   expected to be available for
benefits would be available for                   foreign-owned firms.
exports into Andean Pact countries.
IV. ZONA FRANCA INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL DE CARTAGENA (ZFIC)
A.   Establishment of ZFIC of Cartagena
4.01      Decree 2077 of October, 1973 created ZFIC under Law 105 of 1958 as an
Establecimiento Publico (Public Establishment) attached to the Ministry of
Economic Development. The chairman of the board, currently the Admiral of the
Naval Forces in Cartagena, is a designee of the Minister of Economic Develop-
ment. The other eight board members are representatives of the Departmental
Governor, Mayor of Cartagena, Port Authority, Customs Office, Chamber of
Commerce, National Association of Industries, National Federation of Bussiness-
men, and Chamber of Construction. The manager of ZFIC is appointed by the
President of the Republic. Decrees 2828 of 1974 and 2411 of 1975 established
the statutes of ZFIC and the rules and procedures governing the flow of goods
in and out of the free zone. A full-time designee of the Controller General
of Colombia working with ZFIC ensures that these legal conditions are met.
4.02      The board of ZFIC has passed a number of resolutions over the past
three years to establish operating policies and procedures. The management
of ZFIC has incorporated these resolutions and some other relevant matters
into a single policy statement for approval by ZFIC's board. This policy
statement covers, inter alia, pricing policy, industrial selection criteria,



- 14 -
financial covenants, and the role of the board in governing ZFIC operations.
A draft of this document (Annex 4, B6) was discussed by the Bank and ZFIC at
negotiations, and final approval by ZFIC's board of a policy statement accept-
able to the Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.03      ZFIC plans to develop the EPZ on land donated by Exxon in the
Mamonal industrial area, about 15 km south of Cartagena. The commercial free
zone, which handles the import and export of goods in transit, is located
within the port of Cartagena, and is physically and operationally separate
from the EPZ, but would generate substantial funds to finance the construction
of the latter (Annex 3, Chart 1). Since 1975 ZFIC has made intensive efforts
in planning and preparing the EPZ project, and in establishing an appropriate
organization for its management. The first commercial warehouses have been in
use since 1976, and the feasibility study and detailed engineering of the EPZ
had been prepared by early 1977.
B.   Comparative Advantages of the Cartagena Export Processing Zone
4.04      ZFIC undertook detailed studies of the feasibility of the zone in
Mamonal and of the comparative advantages of Cartagena in competing with
other EPZs in Colombia and elsewhere, with the assistance of Shannon (Ireland)
Free Airport Development Corporation experts funded by UNDP. The key factors
considered in analyzing Cartagena's innate advantages were:
(a) Location. Cartagena is located on the Caribbean coast of
Colombia close to Panama and thus has good access through the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans to North American and world
markets. Since Cartagena is the port of Medellin, Colombia's
second most important industrial center, activity of the port
is heavy. The site for the EPZ is on the coast, and barges
could be used to transport goods to and from the port area
and ships anchored offshore.
(b) Labor force. Wages are low in Colombia (Annex 3, Table 6) and
available labor is abundant. While the work force in the
Cartagena area is generally not experienced in factory work,
a planned intensive training and work force upgrading program
(para. 5.20) would help ensure adequate quality. Due to the
extensive construction, mainly for the tourist industry, over
the past several years in Cartagena, many workers have gained
basic work skills and are accustomed to formal employment.
(c) Infrastructure. Transportation systems, including an inter-
national airport, good port facilities, and well-developed
river and highway networks, serve Cartagena well. I)evelop-
ment plans are sufficiently advanced to ensure suff:Lcient
supplies of water (para. 5.14) and power (para. 5.018) in a
timely manner. Telephone and cable communications are also
adequate for the medium term.



- 15 -
(d) Industrial materials and services. Colombia has reached a
relatively high level of industrial development and offers
ample industrial, commercial and financial services.
Colombia also offers a substantial raw material base for
industry, with many agricultural products available, and
a well-developed petrochemical industry already in Mamonal.
(e) Environment. Cartagena is a resort city and an attractive
location for necessary expatriate staff which should be
able to take advantage of its cultural similarity to the
Southern European countries in attracting industrialists
from these areas. The relatively stable political and
social climate at both the national and local levels
should also be quite attractive.
(f) Fiscal and financial incentives. Favorable taxation 1/
and easy capital transfers offer substantial attraction to
industrialists. EPZ industries would also receive CATs on
the local value added of their production. Furthermore,
firms locating in the EPZ could be eligible, ceteris paribus,
for term loans under BR-administered funds, and PROEXPO would
extend short-term export credits on the value added of their
exports.
(g) National market. While ZFIC will promote export-oriented
activities initially, firms in the EPZ could sell their output
inside Colombia with no duty charged on the Colombian value
added. ZFIC will not emphasize this comparative advantage,
but it does represent a possible market alternative in case
demand for space by strictly export industries is not as high
as expected, or lags in the world market for the product
of a firm already in the EPZ create a short-term need to
sell inside Colombia.
4.05      In summary, Cartagena's comparative advantage stems from the fact
that it offers the advantages of Colombia's relatively sophisticated economy
simultaneously with a low cost labor force and excellent location. Proposed
rents are reasonable and in line with those of other EPZs (para. 7.03).
The Shannon evaluation, supported by the findings of the Bank missions, con-
cluded that a well-managed and designed EPZ in Cartagena could compete effec-
tively with other EPZs in attracting export-oriented enterprises.
C.   Objectives of the Export Processing Zone
4.06      ZFIC plans to exploit the above advantages to obtain the maximum
economic benefit for Colombia from the EPZ. Accordingly, and unlike other
1/   Although a 40% tax on profits will apply to EPZ firms, most developed
countries unilaterally permit this tax to be deducted from home country
income tax obligations.



- 16 -
EPZs elsewhere in the world, ZFIC intends to attract particularly companies
with substantial linkages to the economy and thus greater impacts on the
region.  ZFIC, with tV  '-'       UNDP/Shannon, developed some specific objec-
tives for the EPZ in order to maximize benefits to the region and country.
The overriding objective of ZFIC as stated in the Decrees (para. 4.01) is to
foster the economic and social development of the adjacent region. Besides
its role as the prime mover of the broad regional social development program
(para. 2.11), ZFIC has established the following more specific economic
objectives for the EPZ:
(i) increase of exports;
(ii) employment generation;
(iii) usage of new technology and processes, and development of
management and technical skills new to Colombia;
(iv) general improvements in the quality of the labor force through
the provision of stable employment and income, and skill
upgrading;
(v) diversification of exports to geographic markets or product
lines previously not tapped by Colombian exporters; and
(vi) a stimulus to the other sectors of the regional and national
economy through linkages.
4.07      To maximize these benefits ZFIC has developed some key criteria that
would be used flexibly as guidelines in selecting companies to locate in the
EPZ. While these criteria will be incorporated in ZFIC's policy statement
(para. 4.02) as an indication of priority activities to be promoted intensively,
they could be modified in the light of actual demand for space in the EPZ.
(1) Employment generation. Since land is scarce in the EPZ, jobs
generated per square meter would be an important selection
parameter. Based on experience in other EPZs, ZFIC expects
to average one employee per 15-20 m2 of factory space;
(2) Use of Colombian raw materials. This factor is quite important
both to maximize benefits for Colombia and to achieve greater
attachment of the firm to the EPZ, but may be difficult to imple-
ment in the short run.  Therefore, ZFIC will also seek firms that
may not use Colombian raw material initially but with potential
for backward linkage at a later date;
(3)  Pollution.  The petrochemical industry presently in Mamonal has
polluted the bay to a certain extent, and ZFIC wants to minimize
further pollution. Specific water and air pollution guidelines are
currently being established by the Ministry of Health for industries
in the EPZ (para. 5.11);



- 17 -
(4) Markets. ZFIC plans to request that at least 80% of a firm's
production must be sold outside the Andean Pact countries. ZFIC
would promote intensively industries of the EPZ tapping geographical
or product markets new to Colombia in order to have beneficial
spillover effects on other exporters by establishing a "name" for
Colombia in these markets;
(5)  New technology.  The importing of new technology could have
beneficial effects on industry and labor by expanding Colombia's
technology base; and
(6)  Proven stability.  ZFIC will avoid "screwdriver" enterprises with
low value added which tend to be highly unstable.
4.08      These criteria are reasonable, especially since ZFIC plans to imple-
ment them flexibly in the beginning until they obtain a better understanding
of the market. However, ZFIC's ability to be selective will depend to a
great extent on the quality and scope of its promotion effort, and general
demand for space in EPZs. The EPZ is likely to attract, through its inter-
national promotion program, industries based on Colombia's agricultural
produce and thus having a high local value added. In particular, it should
attract some textile, leather, food and wood processing, and other labor-
intensive industries. In deciding among candidates ZFIC will calculate the
net economic benefits to Colombia per square meter of space rented, using
efficiency prices and taking into account the indirect effects of the industry
through linkages and any externalities such as pollution.
D.   Promotion
4.09      In order to capitalize fully on its comparative advantages, ZFIC
must develop and implement an effective international promotion program.
ZFIC began an intensive promotion effort in early 1977 but soon realized
that until financing for the EPZ project was obtained and construction well
under way their efforts were pretuature. For this reason ZFIC halted the
program but pursued vigorously the training of staff in promotion techniques.
ZFIC, with assistance from Shannon Free Airport Development Company experts,
is now preparing the detailed promotion strategy (Annex 4, B5), a draft
of which was discussed and agreed upon in principle with ZFIC at negotiations.
Due to the overriding importance of promotion, the formulation of a detailed
promotion program, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness, and semi-annual updating of the program would also be required
through the disbursemeat period of the proposed loan.  These semi-annual
promotion reports would also provide an effective check on the strength and
structure of demand for space in the EPZ. Specific points for inclusion in
the promotion plan are:
(i) Description of buildings to be available for renting during
the coming 12 months, with anticipated rental charges;
(ii) identification of prospective clients, including names of
firms, industrial sector, country of origin, etc;



- 18 -
(iii)  strategy for recruiting clients mentioned in (ii), including
advertising, direct mailings, personal contacts, use of
PROEXPO, visits by firms to Cartagena, attendance at trade
fairs, etc;
(iv)  results expected in terms of applications received and rental
contracts signed; and
(v) planned general promotion work (i.e., research and feasi-
bility studies), specific cooperation strategies with
entities such as PROEXPO or any consulting contracts,
evaluation of results of the past six months, and aL budget
for the program.
4.10      The promotion program has two main precepts, namely, that (i) promo-
tion should be directed at selected industries or enterprises, since "general"
promotion is not cost effective, and (ii) selection of industries for promotion
must be based on a careful study of these industries and the advantages
Cartagena can offer them.  ZFIC plans to begin work immediately on this second
part. The West German Government is sending three experts shortly to prepare
feasibility studies for several industrial sectors. Also, ZFIC staff will
analyze raw material availabilities, transport costs, and relative labor costs
and availabilities, and will undertake some preliminary assessments of the
competitive advantage a firm would gain in world markets by locating in
Cartagena. Subsequently, ZFIC would hire consultants in the US and Europe
(para. 5.13) to investigate the particular industries and markets in those
countries. Once specific target enterprises were identified, ZFIC would
direct a general promotion program at those enterprises with the help of
PROEXPO, who have indicated they would cooperate with ZFIC as needed in its
international promotion campaign, and ZFIC would also promote specifically
through mailings and visits by its staff to prospective candidates.
4.11      The projected expenses of the promotion program are included in
Annex 3, Table 7. Expenses are highest in 1979 in order to fill the 34
buildings expected to be available in 1979/80 with an estimated 15 firms.
Subsequently, about 8-10 buildings per year must be filled by about 5-6
firms. The number of firms needed is modest, but a well-finalnced promotion
program is justified to identify and attract the most desirable firms.
E.   Institutional Aspects of ZFIC
4.12      To date, major activities of ZFIC have been the operation of the
commercial zone and planning of the EPZ. The commercial zone currently
consists of two privately owned warehouses and one small ZFIC-owned warehouse.
Five new commercial warehouses are under construction, with three to be
completed by April 1978, and two more by August 1978. Demand for rental
space far exceeds supply, and ZFIC is storing goods on empty lots and in
rented warehouses outside the tree zone area. Earned income in 1977 was
Col$15.9 million, with profits sufficient to put ZFIC in the black for total
operations since its founding. Equity is about Col$67 million (with no
significant liabilities), originating mainly from government contributions,
the donation of land by Exxon for the EPZ (Col$7.5 million), and retained
earnings.



- 19 -
4.13      The basic organizational structure of ZFIC (Annex 3, Chart 3) is
suited to their objectives. The main functions of each department are:
(1) Technical Department - supervise contracting of works, con-
struction, and maintenance of the physical plant;
(2) Commercial Department - supervise the flow of goods in and out of
the commercial free zone, and negotiate contracts with rentors of
space in the commercial zone;
(3) Finance and Administration Department - handle the financial,
personnel, and legal affairs of ZFIC;
(4) Industrial Department - undertake promotion, negotiate contracts
with clients for the industrial zone, liaise between government
and clients as necessary, and provide overall management of the
industrial zone, except maintenance; and
(5) Social Department - liaise with various governmental agencies
involved in social development programs in the 12 target towns
of the Cartagena sub-region, establish and manage a "job bank,"
and assist client industries in selection of workers and maintenance
of an adequate work force.
4.14      The manager of ZFIC has been its motivating force for the past
three years and is well experienced in management and industrial promotion.
While to date he has acted mostly as a planner in designing this proposed
project, he appears fully capable of directing the implementation of the EPZ
and of negotiating effectively with prospective clients. The five department
head positions are also filled by competent individuals. However, the great
expansion of the activities implied by this project will require substantial
staff additions at the professional levels. Projections of staffing levels by
department for the next three years are given in Annex 3, Table 8. While
salaries are somewhat lower than those of the private sector, they are
considered adequate by ZFIC to attract staff qualified for carrying out their
operations.
4.15      The Commercial Department is presently staffed adequately, and the
Technical Department is headed by a competent engineer with the skill and
experience to oversee the physical implementation of the proposed project. No
major changes are needed in the permanent staffing or orientation of these
departments. The implementation of this project will require careful financial
planning and control from the Finance Department, and performance to date,
particularly in financial planning, has not been fully adequate. However, the
chief accountant is undertaking training in financial planning and ZFIC will
also hire a qualified accounting firm. ZFIC has hired an assistant to the
manager to oversee budget preparation and monitoring, and facilitate coordi-
nation between the Financial Department and the operating departments. While
these steps should effect substantial improvement, agreement was reached
at negotiations that ZFIC will designate a senior accountant with primary
responsibility for financial control of the proposed project as a condition of
loan effectiveness.



- 20 -
4.16      The Social Department has done a good job of coordinating with
social development agencies, but is not properly staffed to undertake the
employment agency function necessary for the EPZ. The manager of ZFIC intends
to recruit a person experienced in vocational training and industrial
relations to take overall responsibility in this area. Since one of the basic
attractions of the EPZ for industrialists is low-cost productive labor, the
selection and upgrading of an adequate work force for the EPZ will be a top
priority.
4.17      The Industrial Department will focus almost solely on promotion
over the next 1-1/2 years, so additional staffing needs are those required
to carry out the promotion program described in para. 4.10. Most importantly,
this department needs strengthening with persons experienced in industry
and knowledgeable of its needs and interests. ZFIC plans to recruit a retired
US executive through the International Executive Service Corps program, and
consultants will be contracted as needed. This department plans to hire
several economists and industrial engineers to analyze quantitatively Cartagena's
comparative advantages for particular industries and assist in preparation of
pre-feasibility studies for potential clients. Also, ZFIC anticipates spending
about US$240,000, part of which would be financed by the Bank (para. 5.13), on
foreign consultants over the next three years to help in identification of
clients and promotion of the EPZ.
V. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
5.01      The export processing zone is located 15 km south of the port of
Cartagena (Annex 3, Chart 1) on 92 ha of raw land to be developed in three
or four stages over a period of about 12 years. The proposed project consists
of the development of 38 ha, complete with standard factory buildings and
other infrastructure, to service the needs of an estimated 30 export-oriented
industries employing about 6,000 workers. This first stage, to be implemented
over five years, has been designed to yield a suitable financial return even
if expansion stages covering the balance of available land were to be post-
poned. The first stage consists of three components.
Component                             Description
I          Export Processing Zone - Comprising all works fully chargeable
to ZFIC including:
(a) civil works for land improvement, building construc-
tion and all infrastructure such as internal roads,
water, power, sewage disposal and telecommunications
networks;
(b) construction of a power distribution line from
an existing substation to the project site; and



- 21 -
(c) technical assistance in international promotion of
the EPZ.
II         Supporting Infrastucture - Comprising works the cost of
which would be recovered from property owners and industries
in the Mamonal area:
(a) construction of a water transmission main from the
existing municipal water treatment plant to the
entrance to the project site; and
(b) rehabilitation of the main highway linking the
project site to the national trunk road system.
III        Vocational Training - construction and equipment of a saall
training center in the General Services A;rea of the EPZ.
B.   Detailed Features
Component I - The EPZ
5.02      This project component consists of the development of 27 ha of
industrial sites and related services facilities on Islands 0, 1, 2 and 3
(Annex 3, Chart 1), forming the industrial zone proper, and 11 ha on the
other side of the customs barrier forming the general services area, which
will house the vocational training center (para. 5.21) and eventually other
social service facilities. Engineering design and specifications, including
a detailed land use plan, have been prepared by the Consorcio de Ingenierias
e Investigaciones Ltda. (CDI) of Bogota, an experienced 4rLd well-qualified
engineering consulting groap, with the advice of experts from the Shannon Free
Airport Development Company. About 40 ha of thle project site, including a
considerable part of the 38 ha to be developed in the Stage I project, consists
of low-lying mangrorve swamp fronting the Bay of Cartagena. The consultants
have capitalized on the natural features of the site by designing six "Islands"
(Annex 3, Chart 1) interconnected by internal roadways but otherwise surrounded
by canals which serve to isolate the site, thereby obviating the need for high
protective fences.  The canals also permit the Lriclusion of docks in the
project design to facilitate the transportation of goods and personnel to and
from the port of Cartagena by water as a supplement to road transport.
5.03      Land fill, to be obtained from quarries in the area as well as from
dredging the coastal canals, will be applied and compacted, elevating the site
by 1 to 2.5 meters as needed to make it suitable for building construction.
The reclaimed land will he allowed to settle for up to one year, depending on
the type of fill used.  Subsequently,3 rads, surface drainage, underground
power distribution lines, telephone cables, water distribution and sewage
collection networks will be installed and factory and other buildings construc-
ted. The land use plan is as follows:



- 22 -
EPZ Land Use Plan
ha        %
Industrial Area
Factory Buildings and Related Structures                            9.1       34
Administration Building, Maintenance Shops                          1.0         4
Warehouses and Docking Facilities                                   1.5         6
Roads and Utilities                                                 2.4         9
Green Areas and Unallocated /1                                     13.0       47
Sub-total             27.0       100
General Services Area
Buildings                                                           4.0       36
Roads and Utilities                                                 1.0        9
Green Areas and Unallocated                                         6.0       55
Sub-total             11.0       100
EPZ Total                                         38.0
/1   This figure is high due to the existence of two hills on Island "0", the
administration island. Less than 20% of the other islands is devoted to
green areas.
Buildings
5.04      Standard factory buildings to be biZilt by ZFIC will be available
in sizes ranging from about 1,200 to 1,800 m (including an uncovered patio
area) and a clear height under roof trusses of 6 to 8 m. The basic design
permits the installation of a second floor at the 3 to 4 m level to accom-
modate light industries that do not require the full headroom and, by instal-
ling partitions buildings can also be subdivided into smaller working areas
in multiples of 200 m . This structural flexibility will permit occupancy by
both larger and smaller firms and the installation of practically every type
of process equipment and production line regardless of horizontal or vertical
spatial requirements. Because of the uncertainty in predicting demand and the
need to reduce risk, factory construction as well as final design will be
implemented in phases, to be established periodically on the basis of firm
commitments realized through the international promotion campaign (para. 4.09).
5.05      It is estimated that about 55 industrial plots will be developed
by 1983, with 16, 16 and 23 on Islands 1, 2 and 3, respectively; each Island
will also include a cafeteria. Island 0 will include vainly administrative
and other service structure. Four warehouses of 800 m each will be built



- 23 -
to provide intermediate storage and raw materials and finished goods in
transit. The administration building, which will house ZFIC offices, banking
facilities, a post office, a cafeteria, etc., has been designed to permit
phased construction and only about 40% of the total 3,200 m2 will be built in
this Stage 1 of the EPZ development. Other structures planned for Island 0
are a customs post, guard house for security personnel, a fire station, and
two docks, one for goods in transit and the other for personnel transport.
Roads
5.06      The internal road layout has been carefully planned to facilitate
the efficient and safe movement of personnel and goods with minimum inter-
ference between the two traffic streams. The access road from the Ceballos-
Pasacaballos highway starts with a right-of-way 29.3 m wide and provides two
2-lane roads, 10.5 m and 9 m wide, the first for heavy trucks and the second
for buses and autos, separated by a 9 m wide island divided into sidewalks,
grass strips and underground conduits for cables and piping. Parking lots for
trucks, buses and autos are provided near the main entrance. From the main
entrance to Circle A (Center of Island 0) the right-of-way widens to 33 m.
This is the first section of the internal primary road system which provides
two 2-lane roads, 7 m and 9 m, for trucks and passenger vehicles respectively,
separated by a 9 m safety island (for sidewalks, underground service conduits
and green strips). From Circle A the primary road branches, one branch
connecting with Circle B serving Islands 1 and 2, and the second branch
to Island 3. These rights-of-way are 24 m wide with proportional reductions
in road and safety island widths. Within each Island the secondary road
system consists of a one-way perimeter road 6 m wide and two 1.5 m wide
sidewalks on either side. All roads are designed for a projected traffic
volume at full occupancy of the EPZ of 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd).
Power
5.07      For the types of light industry expected, electric power demand
averaging I MW/ha of industrial land has been assumed.l/ Total cumulative
demand is forecast to grow from less than 1 MW in 1978/79 (mainly for construc-
tion purposes) to 12 MW in 1984, the year of assumed full occupancy, consist-
ing of: (i) 9 M4W for 9.1 ha of industrial land; plus (ii) 3 MW for all other
lower intensity uses including the administration building, maintenance shops,
and warehouses. The main EPZ distribution substation will be connected to the
13.2 Kv local distribution line and will supply the unit substation in each
island through underground cables. The unit substation will consist of two
1.6 MVA transformers with secondary voltage of 400/200/127 v.
5.08      Although the existing thermal generating plants of CORELCA could
cope with the incremental demand represented by the project, the existing
transmission line owned by CORELCA's power distribution subsidiary ELECTRIBOL
1/   This is ample; in other Bank-assisted industrial estate projects power
demand has been between 0.5 MW/ha and 0.75 MW/ha.



- 24 -
could not deliver more than 3 MW to the project while still supplying other
established and planned new users. This line would be adequate only
for the construction -eriod of the EPZ.  Therefore, it is proposed to install
a separate 13.2 Kv distribution line, chargeable to the project, from the
Cospique generating substation in the Mamonal Industrial Zone to the project
area. This line will be able to deliver up to 9 MW and, combined with the
existing 3 MW line, would be sufficient to meet the needs of Stage 1 of the
EPZ at full occupancy. Although ELECTRIBOL has promised ZFIC by letter that
12 MW of power will be available on a priority basis to the EPZ from the
Cospique substation, increased generating and substation capacity is necessary
to ensure that all demand for electric power in the Mamonal area, including
the EPZ, can be met through the mid-1980s. To this end, an 80 MVA substation
near the EPZ is planned by CORELCA and ELECTRIBOL for completion by 1982.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the government that the EPZ
will receive power as needed during its operating period. By the mid-1980s
the Cartagena area would be connected to the national power ,grid and future
electricity supply would be assured.
Water and Sewage Disposal
5.09      The demand for water for industrial and other purposes has been
estimated fairly conservatively. It has been assumed that the daily water
requirement for the light industries expected to be established in the
industrial export zone is about 80 gals or 0.3 m3 per worker,, of which
about 0.25 m3 would be for industrial use. At full development of Stage I
of the EPZ the total demand for water would be around 2,200 ml3 per day,
after allowing for losses of about 20%. Ultimately, when the entire 92 ha
of the project site are developed, the daily water requirement would be in
the range of 7,000-8,000 m3. This full demand can be met from the municipal
water treatment plant; Component II of the project includes c:onstruction of
the necessary water transmission main (para. 5.14).
5.10      The distribution system within the EPZ consists of storage tanks
and a network of underground distribution pipes. The design includes an
underground storage tank of 8,000 m3 capacity, from which water will be
pumped to an elevated tank of 1,000 m3. This system will provide an adequate
reserve to take care of temporary peak loads exceeding the flow capacity of
the water main from Cartagena and of possible extended interruptions of service,
and maintain the pressure for the internal piping network, including fire
hydrants.
5.11      An estimated 70% of the water consumption would appear as industrial
and sanitary waste effluent. Given the nature of industries likely to locate
in the EPZ (para. 4.08), air and water pollution should not be a problem.
Still, pre-treatment of industrial effluent will be obligatory at the factory
point of origin to remove or neutralize aggressive wastes suclh as acid,
alkali, and excessive suspended matter. Industrial and sanitary wastes will
merge in the sewage collection system and flow to a treatment plant. The
design of the treatment plant has not yet been finalized because of the lack
of standards for pre-treated industrial effluent and for the treated waste
water discharged into the Bay of Cartagena. The Ministry of Hlealth is currently



- 25 -
developing standards for both water and air pollution which would subsequently be
included in ZFIC's policy statement (para. 4.02). In any case, a screen unit
would be installed to eliminate flotable solids from mixed sewage. Specific
facilities to treat remaining wastes can be designed to meet standards once a
reasonably clear indication of the type of industry that would locate in the
EPZ is available.  Bank funds would be available from the "unallocated" portion
of the loan (Table 6.3) for financing of a more sophisticated central sewage
treatment plant if one is necessary to meet the standards for water pollution.
Telecommunications
5.12      A PABX system will be installed with 20 main lines and at least 100
extensions, to be expanded in the future, when needed, to 40 main lines and
200-250 extensions. Telecartagena, the local telephone company, anticipates
no difficulty in providing the external installations and service for up to
250 extensions. For both national and international communication, ZFIC plans
to install at least two telex terminals, one mainly for ZFIC administration and
the second to be shared by the industrial occupants. Each factory will have
a terminal, and time-sharing will be controlled by an operator located at the
central telecommunications console in the Administration Building. In an
exchange of letters with ZFIC, Telecartagena has already agreed to provide
these facilities, and during negotiations assurances were obtained from the
government that it will ensure provision of telephone and telex facilities
as needed. In addition, an intercom system with an ultimate capacity of
5 control stations and 25 satellite stations connecting with essential services
such as the customs office and guard house will be installed for the use of
ZFIC administrative staff. Auxiliary communication facilities to be installed
include: (i) a loudspeaker system for public announcements; (ii) a mobile
radio-telephone system, primarily for the use of the security staff; (iii) an
electronic alarm system with a central monitoring board in the guard house; and
(iv) a radio transmitter to communicate with ships in the area or for emergency
calls.
Technical Assistance
5.13      The implementation of the promotion strategy (para. 4.10) will
require specialized skills and knowlege in advertising, use of different
media and techniques, and detailed knowlege of certain industrial subsectors
in specific countries.  Accordingly, ZFIC management will continue to seek
assistance in this area. In the past PROEXPO's field offices have assisted
ZFIC personnel to meet industrialists in different countries, and UNDP has
made grants totalling US$112,000 which have been used for training ZFIC staff,
obtaining technical advice from the Shannon Free Airport Development Company
in formulating policies and reviewing studies, and developing general publicity
material. Since ZFIC will require further assistance in order to develop and
implement an effective promotion program, and extensive international travel
by promotion staff of ZFIC is needed, the project includes provision of
US$200,000 for about three man-years of specialized consultant assistance
and for travel expenses related to international promotion. The consultants
and a global travel program would be approved in advance by the Bank as part
of the promotion plan.



- 26 -
Component II - Supporting Infrastructure
Water Supply
5.14      Present raw water intake and transmission facilities to the Cartagena
municipal water treatment facilities are adequate to the year 2000. Municipal
facilities presently under construction under Loan 1072-CO will supply the
needs of the Mamonal area through 1982, and the proposed INSFOPAL III project,
scheduled for appraisal in 1979, would increase treatment and, pumping capacity
further to meet needs through 1988. A final stage of development would then
be undertaken to meet needs through the year 1995. This project component
consists of the construction of a water transmission main from the municipal
water treatment plant to the project site, a distance of about 12 kms. A
period of about 6 months will be required to complete the construction of
the water main once its final design is approved. The Municipal Public Ser-
vice Company of Cartagena (EPMC), which operates the city water system and
is at present undertaking improvements and expansion of treatment facilities
with assistance from the Bank (Loan 1072-CO), would construct, and maintain
the water transmission main. ZFIC agreed to sign a subsidiary project agree-
ment, acceptable to the Bank, with EPMC for construction and maintenance of
the water main; this agreement would also guarantee adequate water supply
for operation of the EPZ.
5.15      The transmission main will be 11,900 m in length and would serve
the EPZ as well as other industries in the Mamonal area. The! capacity of
the water main will be 336 liters per second at the beginning and 93 liters
per second near the EPZ. This main could provide up to 14,700 m3 per day
which exceeds the projected demand of the EPZ by over 60% even when the
full 92 ha are ultimately developed.
Ceballos-Pasacaballos Road
5.16      Principal access to the project site is provided by a 14.6 km
municipal road linking the settlement of Pasacaballos to the national road
network at Ceballos (Annex 3, Chart 1). 1/ From this junction there are about
4.4 km of national road direct to the port of Cartagena roughly in a northerly
direction through the city. The entire road link is paved wiLth asphalt except
for the last 2.5 km between the Exxon Plant and Pasacaballos, which is unpaved,
and is in very poor condition in spite of unusually high maintenance expen-
ditures of about US$3,300 per km annually. An alternative route through the
city to the port is the Crisanto Luque Avenue, a four-lane ciLty thoroughfare
paved with cement-concrete for 1 km and unpaved in the remaining 1.2 km. The
present traffic on the Ceballos-Pasacaballos road ranges from about 300 vpd
1/   Most transport of goods between the port and the EPZ wi:Ll be by barges
crossing the Bay. The road construction is important to ZFIC mainly
to transport raw materials from the interior of the country to the EPZ,
and as an alternative to barge transport as necessary.



- 27 -
near Pasacaballos to 3,900 vpd (mainly heavy trucks serving Mamonal industries)
near Ceballos, and is considerably above the design capacity of the road which
is only 6 meters wide and poorly drained in some places.
5.17      The following improvements would complement the EPZ project and
generally upgrade the quality of road transport in the area for the existing
and expected future volume of traffic:
(a) reconstruction and widening of the Ceballos-Pasacaballos road;
and
(b) improvement of the national road from the port through the
junction at El Amparo of the highways to Medellin and
Barranquilla.
Component II of the proposed project includes Bank financing of activity (a),
while (b) would be financed and undertaken by the Ministry of Public
Works (MOP), as part of their normal programs. The total road construction
program should take about two years, beginning in late 1978. Assurances by
the government on the above points were obtained during negotiations.
5.18      Detailed engineering for improvement of the Ceballos-Pasacaballos
road is being prepared by the Department of Valorization of the Municipality
of Cartagena. The design is based on the national standard of a 7.3 m wide
carriageway, 3 m wide shoulder on each side and a design speed of 80 km per
hour. The pavement would be of concrete, which is more suitable and easier to
maintain for the expected heavy traffic loads. The engineering is at an
advanced stage, but the designing of a suitable drainage system taking account
of the flat topography and poor natural drainage still has to be completed.
The full detailed engineering should be available within 2 months.
5.19      The Ceballos-Pasacaballos road presently belongs to the Municipality
of Cartagena, who would give responsibility for reconstruction to ZFIC through
a subsidiary project agreement (para. 5.24). The full cost plus interest of
the road reconstruction would be charged by the Municipality to the property
owners, mostly industries, along the road in the Mamonal area through valoriza-
tion taxes over a 5-10 year period. A committee of industrialists has been
formed to promote the road construction, and has stated the industrialists'
willingness to pay the valorization taxes. Subsequently, the industrialist's
committee would take reponsibility for maintaining the road.
Vocational Training - Component III
5.20      This proposed project component would assist the National Training
Service (SENA) in developing a vocational training program to meet the specific
manpower needs of the EPZ. SENA, which is funded by a 2% payroll tax, is the
national vocational training agency. The Cartagena branch of SENA currently
has two vocational training centers, one devoted to commercial skills training
and the other to construction and craft skills, and undertakes some training
programs at the request of individual firms or unions. The proposed training



- 28 -
plan for the EPZ is based on the assumed rate of occupancy of factory space in
Table 7.1, and the estimate of total employment of about 6,000 by 1984.
Although the exact t"pes of technology to be used by firms in the EPZ cannot
be specified at this time, most light industries follow typical patterns in
employing a labor force with a certain mix of skills. Thus, the general types
of training courses necessary for the EPZ can be indicated at this time, but
the actual course content and machinery for use in training can only be
established once a firm identification of the EPZ clients is made.
5.21      The basic concept of this component is to train skilled electro-
mechanics and welders, and instrument and control systems maintenance workers
and supervisors in a training center in the general services area of the EPZ,
and to train the regular production work force in the factories on the firms'
own equipment. SENA instructors would be available for all training programs.
Annual output of skilled electromechanical and other maintenance personnel
would reach 200 in 1984. Additionally, 1,200 new candidates for production
line work would be processed annually from 1980 to 1984 through the selection
procedures and trained in plant, and the skills of about 400 workers would be
upgraded annually by in-plant programs. The proposed project would help
finance construction, furnishing and equipment of SENA's training center
of 60 places. This center is justified to ensure that the training programs
conducted by SENA are fully responsive to the needs of the EPZ, and the
existence of this center on the EPZ will help attract industries. This
component would cost about US$300,000, including a direct and indirect foreign
exchange content of US$200,000 proposed for Bank financing. The annual oper-
ating costs of the training center of about US$50,000 represent an increase
of only 2% in the SENA regional budget and would be more than offset by the
payroll tax to be paid by ZFIC industries and earmarked for SENA.
5.22      Selection of maintenance personnel for training in the proposed
center would be a joint ZFIC/SENA responsibility, and subseiquent placement
in employment would be arranged with the employer through ZFIC. Courses for
the technicians, varying in length up to 1,600 hours, would be arranged in
modular form to provide maximum flexibility, enabling workers to take a series
of interconnected modules at different points in their career to satisfy
changing needs. At negotiations ZFIC gave assurances that it will enter into
a subsidiary project agreement with SENA by December 31, 1978 acceptable to
the Bank for the implementation of this component, with the building of the
center and purchase of necessary equipment to take place in the first half of
1979.
C.   Project Management
5.23      Implementation of Component I would be the responsibility of ZFIC.
For this purpose ZFIC would need to designate a project engineer, project
accountant, and industrial promotion manager acceptable to the Bank as a
condition of loan effectiveness. ZFIC plans to designate its Technical
Department manager, an experienced and capable engineer, as project manager,
and is presently recruiting a project accountant and promotion manager.
Direct supervision of construction in Component I will likely be carried
out by CDI, the design consultants of the EPZ, acting as the owner's
representative and reporting to the project engineer. The promotion and
management of the EPZ will be undertaken by the Industrial Department of ZFIC
(para 4.17).



- 29 -
5.24      Regarding Component II, the water transmission main will be con-
structed by EPMC under the general oversight of INSFOPAL, the borrower under
Loan 1072-CO. ZFIC would construct the Ceballos-Pasacaballos road (para.
5.19). Finally, for Component III the Cartagena regional office of SENA is
qualified to construct the training center and implement the training program.
Specific details of the implementation of these components would be included
in subsidiary project agreements, acceptable to the Bank, between ZFIC and
(i) the municipality for the road; (ii) EPMC for the water main; and
(iii) SENA for the training center.
5.25      The Ministry of Economic Development which is legally in charge of
the free zones, would oversee project execution, facilitate coordination as
necessary, identify any blockages, and issue a quarterly report with ZFIC to
the Bank on project implementation. Assurances on the Ministry's involvement
in the project were obtained at negotiations.
D.   Project Execution Schedule
5.26      Although the nominal start of the 5-year project execution period
has been set for mid-1978, expenditures actually have taken place since early
1977 for land fill. Island 0, which is partially filled, and Island I will
have settled adequately by late 1978 to permit construction of roads,
buildings and other facilities starting around the end of 1978.
5.27      Annex 3, Chart 2 clearly reflects the guiding principle governing
project execution common to all well-managed industrial estate/EPZ projects,
namely to phase the construction so that facilities are ready a short time in
advance of actual commitments by interested occupants. Some immediate avail-
ability of fully serviced industrial space is desirable at all times as an
effective promotion tool in attracting industries interested in rapid start-up
of operations; on the other hand, overbuilding in advance of demand could
affect adversely both cash flow and the eventual profitability of the project.
Obviously, to achieve the optimum balance very close liaison will have to be
maintained between project execution personnel and the promotion staff, and
adjustments made in the assumed construction schedule as dictated by the real-
ized rate of occupancy. All building design and construction would be subject
to prior Bank approval which would take into consideration the demonstrated
demand for space.
5.28      ZFIC's project personnel, in close cooperation with the engineering
contractor, will prepare bid packages consistent with the phasing of civil
works shown in Annex 3, Chart 2. The civil works contracts would include suit-
able clauses permitting either expansion of the contract if work needs to be
accelerated (because of higher-than-forecast demand) or cutbacks with minimum
penalties (if demand lags significantly behind forecast).
5.29      The construction schedule is based upon initial tendering in May
1978.1/ Depending on the lags inherent in bid evaluation, civil works
1/   The detailed engineering design and preparation of tender documents has
been completed by CDI, except for modifications related to changes in the
power and water supply specifications and tendering has begun for the
initial civil works.



- 30 -
contractor selection, and negotiation of civil works contracts, the first
Bank-funded civil works should start in the third quarter of- 1978.
VI. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A.   Project Cost
6.01      The project's expected capital costs summarized in Table 6.1 are
based on (i) a detailed project design by CDI in 1976 and revised during 1977;
(ii) late 1977 refinements and updating of costs made by ZF][C management; and
(iii) estimates and revisions to project scope and timing recommended by Bank
missions during late 1977 and early 1978.  The main changes made since mid-
1977 are: (i) inclusion of Island 3 in the first phase of the EPZ development
to increase the overall density of factory buildings per unit of land devel-
oped; (ii) the adding of a second story to some factory buildings to increase
rentable floor space per unit of developed land; and (iii) the postponement
of construction of the administration buildings and cafeteriLas to improve the
project's cash flow and rate of return. Also, it was decided during appraisal
that the project must include the reconstruction of the Ceballos-Pasacaballos
road for use at an early date.
6.02      Physical contingency of 10% of base line cost is considered reason-
able for most works since cost estimates are based on detailed engineering
design and recent construction experience in the Cartagena area, and work
already started on land preparation and construction of the customs building
has provided preliminary confirmation of the accuracy of the estimates. A
20% physical contingency has been allowed for the Ceballos-P'asacaballos road
reconstruction in Component II in light of the difficulties that can be
encountered as a result of poor terrain for road in the area. Price escala-
tion contingencies on US dollars of 9% p.a. for civil works and 7.5% p.a. for
equipment have been provided for 1978-79, declining to 8% and 7% p.a., respec-
tively, thereafter.  The foreign exchange content estimate is based on an
analysis by the mission of the direct and indirect foreign exchange content of
specific project items, and is in line with foreign exchange percentages
calculated for similar civil works and equipment in other BaLnk projects in
Colombia.



- 31 -
Table 6.1: CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
(1977 prices, US$1 = Col$37)
Col$ Millions                         US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign   Total    %
Component I
Export Processing Zone (EPZ)
Site Development                     89        78       167         2.4      2.1       4.5      27
Utilities                            11        44        55          .3      1.2       1.5       9
Buildings                           244       141       385         6.6      3.8      10.4      61
Construction Supervision              4         4        11          .2        .1        .3      2
Technical Assistance                  4         7        11          .1        .2        .3      1
Base Cost                  355       27         29         96        7.4      17.0    100
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                     37       26        63         1.0         .7      1.7      10
Price                             246      165       411         2.8       1.9       4.7      28
Total EPZ                  638       465      1103        13.4      10.0      23.4    138
Component II
Supporting Infrastructure
Ceballos-Pasacaballos Rd.l/          56        56      111         1.5       1.5        3.0     74
Water Supply                         22        11        33          .6        .3       0.9     24
Construction Supervision              4         -         4          .1       -          .1      2
Base Cost                   82        67       148         2.2       1.8       4.0    100
Contingencies                                                        -                   -      -
Physical (10%)                      7         7        15          .2        .2        .4     10
Price                              32        56       88           .4        .7      1.1      29
Total                      121       130       251         2.8       2.7       5.5    139
Component III
Vocational Training
Building and Equipment
(Contingencies included)              4         9        11          .1        .2       .3    100
Total Cost of works        763       604      1367        16.3      12.9      29.2
Capitalized Interest                   -         78        78         -         2.1       2.1      -
GRAND TOTAL                          682      1445                  15.0      31.3
1/  A 20% physical contingency has been allowed for this component (see para. 6.02).



- 32 -
B.   Financing Plan
6.03      Financing of the project will consist of (i) government budget funds
including US$3.4 million equivalent to ZFIC as equity and UJS$0.8 million
equivalent of financing through INSFOPAL to EPMC for the external water supply
works; (ii) a US$2.8 million equivalent loan from FFDU (a government urban
development rediscounting fund) to ZFIC; (iii) US$2 million equivalent of
government financing for the road construction; (iv) financing of US$100,000
equivalent by SENA for the vocational training center and of about US$60,000
equivalent (5% of component cost) by EPMC for the water transmission line;
(v) internally generated funds of US$7.2 million equivalent from both the
industrial EPZ project and the commercial free zone; and (vi) a proposed Bank
loan of US$15 million equivalent. Agreement on provision of these funds was
reached at negotiations.
6.04      The government's equity investment in ZFIC of US'3.4 million equiv-
alent includes US$0.2 million equivalent already on hand and about US$0.75
million equivalent already in the 1978 budget, with the balance to be contri-
buted during 1979 through 1981. The government would also make US$0.8 million
equivalent available to EPMC in 1979 for construction of the water transmission
main. The EPZ is expected to begin generating earnings during 1981, while the
commercial zone's cash generation has already started. Only 70% of the pro-
jected net cash generation of the commercial zone is assumed available for
financing the EPZ, which is a conservative assumption. A UrS$2.8 million
equivalent FFDU loan for ZFIC for seven years at an interest rate of 24% p.a.
has already been signed and will become effective in April. The local cost
financing for the road construction would come initially from prepaid valor-
ization taxes and internal borrowings by the municipality, with the full
cost of the road recuperated eventually through valorization taxes on the
industries in Mamonal charged by the Valorization Office of the Municipality
of Cartagena (para. 5.19).
6.05      The Bank loan will be made to ZFIC for 17 years including 4 years of
grace, at the prevailing interest rate of 7.5% (8% dollar equivalent was
assumed for the financial projections) and a standard commitment fee of 0.75%
per annum; the loan will be guaranteed by the Government of Colombia. To
assure adequate liquidity during the initial stages of project implementa-
tion, interest and other charges amounting to US$2.1 million of the Bank loan
will be capitalized during the first four years of construction.



- 33 -
Table 6.2: FINANCING PLAN 1/
(Current Millions)
Col$ 2/    US$        x
Component I
Export Processing Zone
Equity:
Government Contribution                                      162        3.4     13
Industrial Zone Cash Generation 2/                           232       3.6      14
Commercial Zone Cash Generation                              170       3.6      14
564      10.6     41
Long Term Debt:
FFDU                                                         117       2.8      11
Bank Loan                                                    500      12.1      47
Total Debt                                                617      14.9      58
Total ZFIC Financing                                          1181       25.5    100
Component II
Supporting Infrastructure
Government Contribution                                       36         .8     14
Municipality for Road                                         90       2.0      36
EPMC for Water Line                                            3         .1      2
Bank Loan                                                    122       2.7      48
Total                                                          251        5.5    100
Component III
Vocational Training
SENA                                                           4        .1      33
Bank Loan                                                      9        .2      67
Total Training FinancinR                                        13        .3    100
Total Financing                                                  a        313
Summary of Sources:
Government                                                   198       4.2      14
FFDU                                                         117       2.8       9
Internal Borrowing and prepaid valorization taxes             90       2.0       6
SENA                                                           4        .1       -
EPMC                                                           3        .1      -
Internal Cash Generation of ZFIC                             402       7.2     23
Bank Loan                                                    631      15.0     48
Total Financing                                               1445      31_ 3    l°=
1/ Discrepancies in addition are caused by rounding of numbers.
7/ Through project completion in 1983, excluding loan amortizations.
-  Exchange rate assumptions; 1978, Col$40 = US$1; 1979, Col$46 = US$1; 1980, Col$52 = US$1;
1981, Col$60 = US$1; 1982, Col$67 = US$1; 1983, Col$75 = US$1.



- 34 -
C.   Allocation of Bank Funds
6.06      The borrower would be ZFIC, with the US$15 million Bank loan cover-
ing 100% of the direct and indirect foreign exchange content of the proposed
project. US$12.1 million of the Bank loan would be earmarked for the EPZ
construction, US$2.1 million for the Ceballos-Pasacaballos road, US$0.6
million for the water main, and US$0.2 million for SENA. The Municipality,
EPMC, and SENA would repay to ZFIC in pesos the equivalent of the amount
disbursed by the Bank for these works, on substantially the same terms as the
Bank loan. Based on recent Bank experience in Colombia, the foreign exchange
content of each project component is estimated as follows:
Table 6.3: ALLOCATION OF BANK FUNDS
(Current US$ millions)
Total    Foreign
Project   Exchange    Bank Participation
Costs    Content       Millions      %
Component I
Export Processing Zone (ZFIC)
Civil Works /1                         20.4        7.7           7.7        38
Utilities                                1.9       1.5            1.5       80
Technical Assistance                     0.3       0.2           0.2        70
Unallocated                             0.8        0.6           0.6        75
Total ZFIC                          23.4       10.0          10.0        43
Component II
Supporting Infrastructure
Access Road                              4.1       2.1           2.1        50
Water Supply                             1.4       0.6           0.6        40
Total                                5.5        2.7           2.7        47
Component III
Vocational Training (SENA)
Buildings                                0.1       0.04          0.04       35
Equipment                                0.2       0.16          0.16       80
Total                                0.3        0.20          0.20       67
Interest during construction               2.1        2.1            2.1     100
GRAND TOTAL                         31.3       15.0          15.0        48
/1   This category includes land preparation, internal roads, canals, aque-
ducts, the dock, and buildings.



- 35 -
6.07      Expenditures for the EPZ would be in accordance with the execution
schedule contained in Annex 3, Chart 2. Land preparation for Islands 1 and 2
should begin as soon as possible because the fill must settle for periods of
between four months and one year before being suitable for building construc-
tion. The Bank would finance up to US$500,000 retroactively for civil
works related to the EPZ performed under contracts signed after February 1,
1978, subject to a satisfactory technical and procedural review of the
contracts and bidding process.
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
6.08      Contracts above US$100,000 for equipment and US$1,000,000 for civil
works would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Given the number of competent contractors and suppliers
in Colombia, all contracts are likely to be won by local bidders, including
local representatives of foreign suppliers. Procurement below the ICB limit
would take place according to local procedures (Decree 150), which are satis-
factory. Local equipment manufacturers, in accordance with Bank guidelines,
would be allowed a preference of up to 15% or equivalent to the tariff on the
goods, whichever is lower, and Bank financing of force account works would be
allowed with prior approval of the Bank to an aggregate limit of US$400,000.
The Bank would review ex ante all tender documents subject to public bidding
under Decree 150, currently set at amounts above Col$1,000,000 (about
US$25,000) for equipment, and Col$5,000,000 (about US$125,000) for civil
works. The Bank would review ex ante awards for those contracts subject to
ICB, and would review all contracts proposed for Bank financing prior to
authorizing disbursements. The Bank would reserve the right to exclude from
financing any contracts not awarded according to Bank guidelines and to cancel
the respective amount of the loan.
6.09      Bank disbursements would be over a five-year period beginning in the
third quarter of 1978, as follows:



- 36 -
Table 6.4: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE /1
(Current US$ millions)
EPZ        Access      Water      Vocational
Construction    Road        Main       Training        Interest    Total
1978          2.0         0.5          -           -                           2.5
1979          3.2         1.6         0.6         0.1              0.2        5.7
1980          2.7                                 0.1              0.4        3.2
1981          1.0                                                  0.7         1.7
1982          0.9                                                  0.8         1.7
1983 /2       0.2                                                             0.2
Total   10.0         2.1         0.6        0.2              2.1        15.0
Loan Total                                                              15.0
/1   For estimated quarterly disbursements see the disbursements schedule
contained in Annex 2.
/2   Through the second quarter of 1983.
6.10      Disbursements of the loan would be made in accordance with normal
Bank procedures, with full documentation submitted to the Bank for all dis-
bursements. Disbursement percentages would be as follows:
Component I - Export Processing Zone
(a) 30% for building construction, 80% of local expenditures or
100% of foreign expenditures for machinery and equipment, and
55% of other civil works; and
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for promotion.
Component II - Supporting Infrastructure
(a) 50% of total expenditures for reconstruction of the Ceballos-
Pasacaballos road; and
(b) 40% of total expenditures for the Cartagena - EPZ water
transmission main.
Component III - Vocational Training
(a) 35% of total expenditures for building construction; and



- 37 -
(b) 80% of local expenditures or 100% of foreign expenditures
for equipment.
Interest and other charges would be financed from the loan account up to
US$2.1 million. Retroactive financing would be provided for payments made
before loan signing but after February 1, 1978, up to the equivalent of
US$500,000 for civil works relating to the EPZ.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
7.01      A full financial analysis has been done only for Component I, the
EPZ itself. The road construction portion of Component II will be ultimately
financed by valorization taxes on the industries in Mamonal over a 5-10 year
period. The industrialists perceive that the benefits of the road construction
to them substantially exceed costs, and are prepared to pay these taxes.
In fact, the road construction (para. 5.18) is necessary and justifiable even
without   the proposed project.  Also, industries located in Mamonal would
benefit from the water transmission main and, in line with Bank sector policy
in water supply, user charges to the industries would be established to assist
in cross-subsidizing water supply to poorer users. Finally, SENA is amply
financed from the 2% payroll tax and would have no difficulty undertaking
Component III, whose total cost would easily be offset by tax payments of
the industries in the EPZ. For these reasons none of the costs or revenues
generated by Components II and III have been included in the analysis of
the investment in the EPZ itself. Cash flow projections will be part of each
of the subsidiary project agreements for Components II and III to be signed
prior to loan effectiveness.
A.   Revenue
7.02      While the construction of factory shells will be linked to effective
demand, a best estimate of the construction and rental schedule has been made
below for purposes of the financial analysis of the project:



- 38 -
Table 7.1: PROJECTED COMPLETION AND RENTAL SCHEDULE /1
(units)
Quarter of Year                   Factory Buildings
They Become            Single         Two            Cumulative        In-transit
Available             Level         Level          Availability       Warehouses
1979 (4th quarter)       4              -                 4
1980                    26              4                34                  4
1981                     -              6                40
1982                     6              4                50
1983                     5                               55
/1   Due to the flexibility of factory construction built into the project
(para. 5.26), lags between finishing construction and renting of the
factory should be only a few months, and the annual schedule above
shows no lag.
7.03      Two basic factors must be taken into account in setting rental fees:
(i) they must be reasonably competitive with alternative sites elsewhere in
Colombia, and with other EPZs in the Caribbean area; and (ii) they should
provide an acceptable financial return on the funds invested. Rent charges
are normally a small part of a firm's operating costs and would influence loca-
tion decisions only in marginal cases.  ZFIC's proposed rental fees for indus-
trial buildings of US$1.50 and US$2.00 per m2 per month in 1979 (equivalent to
US$1.29 and US$1.72 in 1977 prices) for single and two level factories, respec-
tively, are competitive and result in an adequate internal return on investment,
generating sufficient funds to allow ZFIC to recuperate its investment in the
proposed project and to finance future growth without need of government
subsidies. These fees would increase about 7% annually to take account of
inflation. Free zones in Colombia in the past have used prof-its from the
commercial operations to subsidize rentals to industries, with rates in some
cases as low as US$0.90 m2, in violation of stated government: policy that the
zones should be self financing. Assurances were obtained from the govern-
ment at negotiations that this policy of establishing rents on industrial
buildings in the free zones to recover full costs and generate funds for future
investments would be enforced to ensure that competition detrimental to all
zones does not occur. Fees ranging from US$1.00 to US$1.50 per m2 per month
in 1977 in La Romana, Dominican Republic, and Colon, Panama, respectively,
should allow the Cartagena EPZ to compete effectively, especially considering
its comparative advantages outlined in para. 4.04.
7.04      For purposes of this financial analysis it has been assumed that the
average factory will be 1,650 m2 including 240 m2 of patios and 200 m2 of



- 39 -
office lpace located in a second level mezzanine.  The average factory of    2
1,650 m  is the basic unit to which the US$1.50 and US$2.00 rental fees per m
per month are applied. ZFIC will make no "special assessments" but will
include all charges to the rentor in the single rental fee. Charges for
utilities (i.e., water, power, telecommunications, and road use) will be made
directly to the industries by the respective utilities agencies. The basic
rental contract will be for three years, with renewal options at a 23% increase
in rent for the following three-year period. Any modifications in building
design that resulted in higher construction costs would be charged to the
rentor at a fee that would render a 10% return on investment to ZFIC. Corre-
spondingly, if the rentor wished to invest in the construction of the factory,
ZFIC would offer rent reductions that would give the rentor a 10% return on
his investment. Any amounts ZFIC would receive in private financing from
rentors would reduce its need for bridge financing (para. 7.09).
7.05      In-transit warehousing fees per peso or dollar value of merchandise
stored in free zones are set by the government. The warehousing revenue fore-
cast of the EPZ is 2based on these fees and an average of Col$65,000 in bulk
value stored per m per month during 1977 in the Cartagena commercial free
zone. Recent expeyience in the commercial zone indicates that the average
value stored per m is closer to Col$150,000 and can be as high as Col$200,000
at early-1978 prices. The conservative lower storage values have been used
and only four warehouses are considered in this appraisal although there is
space for seven, all of which may be utilized profitably at project completion.
7.06      Revenues from the EPZ, assuming ZFIC financing of construction of all
factories and no private investment in construction, are forecast as summarized
below:
Table 7.2: REVENUE GROWTH, 1979 - 1984
(Current US$ thousands)
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984
Factory rental                  30       760    1,372    1,828    2,303    2,507
Warehousing                      -       712    1,219    1,303    1,396    1,493
Administration
Building                        -          -        24       51        55       59
TOTAL                     30      1.472    2,615    3,182    3,754    4,059
Revenues of the administration building are based on 1,000 m  to be rented at
US$4.00 per month to institutions such as commercial banks and retail stores
that will provide services for ZFIC's client firms and employees.



- 40 -
B.    Income and Cash Flow Forecasts
7.07        Proiected  '-ernti'--  7osts,  income, and cash flow to 1984 are as
follows:
Table 7.3: EPZ INCOME AND CASH FLOW FORECAST
(Current US$ thousands)
1978     1979      1980      1981    1982    1983    1984
Income Statement 1/
Revenue                   -         30    1,472    2,615   3,182   3,754   4,059
Operating Costs            87      296       412       493      528     565      604
Promotion Costs            86      192       166       161      216     231      247
Depreciation               27      107       395       659      763     868      888
Interest & Com. Fee      304       833       864       522     249   1,039       920
Net Income           (504)  (1,398)    (365)        780   1,426   1,051   1,400
Cash Flow
Sources of Funds
Net Income               (504)  (1,398)    (365)       780   1,426   1,051   1,400
Depreciation               27      107       395       659      763     868      888
Government Equity      1,000    1,000    1,000         317     -        -        -
Commercial Zone          328    2,075    2,669    3,869   4,532   4,995   6,548
FFDU Loan              1,930       900       -         -       -        -        -
Bridge Financing          -      1,500    1,500        -       -        -        -
IBRD Loan  2/          2,006    3,179    2,668    1,038        933      161     -
Total Sources       4,787    7,363    7,867    6,743   7,654   7,075   8,836
Uses of Funds
Project Investment        3,620    7,268 3/ 6,661    2,610   2,621        514      -
FFDU Repayment              362      314       273       244     218      193      183
Bridge Repayment            -        435       812       725     346       -       -
IBRD Repayment             -          -         -        -        -       932     932
Total Uses          3,982    8,017    7,746    3,579   3,185   1,639   1,115
as=====   =s====   ======   -=====  =====s=  e=====  e=====
Surplus (Deficit)          805      (654)      121    3,164   4,469   5,436   7,721
Cumulative Surplus         805       151       272    3,436   7,905  13,341  21,062
Debt Service Coverage      -         -         -        1.3      3.0    1.4      1.6
1/ All costs prior to the start of revenues could be capitalized as investment
costs, but are broken out here in the income statement for clearer exposition.
2/ Net of US$2,131,000 capitalized interest during the first four years.
3/ Including US$200,000 for promotion.



- 41 -
7.08      The operating costs include maintenance, estimated at 2% p.a. of
investment costs, and the EPZ's shares of ZFIC's central office staff and
overhead costs. This share is forecast to grow from 19.6% in 1978 to 54.2%
in 1981 and thereafter as staff is added in line with the implementation
schedule of the EPZ. Promotion expenditures are described in para. 4.11.
Annual straight line depreciation rates of 2.5% for roads, drainage and
similar civil works, 4% for buildings, 5% for construction supervision, 7.5%
for power and 10% for miscellaneous equipment such as telecommunications, have
been applied. ZFIC is exempt from income taxes.
7.09      The cash flow forecast indicates that bridge financing will be
needed in 1979 and 1980. There is a possibility that private financing of
construction by rentors will provide these funds but, to ensure adequate
liquidity for project execution, agreement was reached at negotiations that
the government would make at least US$3 million equivalent in bridge financing
available to ZFIC on a timely basis if needed. In the cash flow analysis the
bridge financing was assumed to be US$1.5 million equivalent in pesos in each
of 1979 and 1980, at 24% interest p.a., for three years. Should there be any
delays in the factory rental schedule ZFIC would further postpone investments
in items such as the administration building and the development of the third
island, as well as obtain additional bridge financing from commercial sources.
This, however, is not foreseen as a likely problem because of the emphasis
ZFIC is placing on the promotional campaign and the comparative advantages of
the EPZ (para. 4.04). In addition, the projections show that by 1981 the
commercial free zone could make a sufficient contribution to carry the project
through substantial delays in realizing rental revenues.
C.   Financial Position and Audit
7.10      While the commercial zone and EPZ, as separate profit centers, would
maintain separate accounts, legally they are both owned by a single entity,
ZFIC. The analysis below of the forecast financial position of the project
ignores commercial zone income transfers to the EPZ after mid-1981 in order to
analyze separately the viability of this first-stage development of the EPZ
itself. Still, it should be noted that the expected net revenue generation
from the commercial zone alone would ensure the financial viability of ZFIC
even if EPZ income were substantially lower than forecast.
7.11      Table 7.4 indicates that the current ratio for the industrial zone
is satisfactory after 1980, and the maximum debt:equity ratio would be 65:35.
The bridge financing mentioned in para. 7.09 would provide sufficient
liquidity in 1979 and 1980, if necessary. ZFIC agreed at negotiations to take
whatever action is necessary to maintain a debt:equity ratio no higher than
65:35, and a liquidity ratio of at least 1.25:1 starting in 1981. Finally,
any investments of ZFIC above an aggregate of US$150,000 equivalent annually
would require prior Bank approval.



- 42 -
Table 7.4:  PRO-FORMA BALANCE SHEET
(Current US$ Millions)
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984 ..... 1998 /1
Current Assets        0.3    1.7    0.2    0.3    1.6    1.5    1.9    3.1            3.1
Net Fixed Assets      1.5    4.6   11.5   17.8   19.7   21.6   21.2   20.3           56.1 /2
Deferred Interest      -      0.1    0.3    0.9    1.6    2.1    2.0    1.8            -
Total Assets       1.8    6.3    12.0  18.9   22.9   25.2   25.1   25.2          59.2
Current
Liabilities          -      0.3     1.1   1.0    0.6    1.1    1.1    0.9            -
Long-term Debt         -      3.9     6.9  10.1    11.0  11.3   10.3    9.3            -
Equity & Ret.
Earnings /3         1.8    2.1      4.0   7.9    11.3  12.8   13.7   15.0         59.2
Total Liability &
Equity           1.8    6.3    12.0  18.9    22.9  25.2   25.1   25.2          59.2
Current Ratio          -      5.7     0.2   0.3      2.7   1.4    1.7    3.4           -
Debt:Equity Ratio            65:35   63:37 56:44   49:51 47:53  43:57  38:62    0:100
/I   Projections include Stage 1 project only.
/2   Excludes depreciation.
/3   ZFIC received a US$360,000 equivalent loan from FONADE which has been
considered as equity since the government plans to amortize it.
Note: See also Annex 3, Table 9.
7.12      To date ZFIC's cash flow has been relatively small.  While it has
produced financial statements every six months, under the proposed project
ZFIC would maintain up-to-date monthly cash flow projections for twelve-month
periods, and quarterly for a three-year period. Income and ba:Lance sheet
statements would be prepared quarterly. As a Public Establishment, ZFIC has
a full-time designee of the Controller General of Colombia to ensure that
all legal and accounting conditions and procedures are followed. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that ZFIC would also have its accounts audited
by an independent audit firm acceptable to the Bank and in a form also
acceptable to the Bank, which would include separate consolidated financial
statements for the EPZ and commercial zone. The first such audit would cover
CY78.



- 43 -
D.   Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7.13      The expected real financial return for the EPZ investment over 25
years is 10.6% (Annex 3, Table 10). This is satisfactory and is close to the
estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital in Colombia and the 10% return on
investment which has been established in this project as a guideline for pricing
policy. The land has been assumed to have a residual value equal to its fully
developed cost of US$2.2 million in 1977 dollars. This is conservative since
land values will certainly increase in real terms over the 25-year period.
Also, with suitable maintenance, buildings and other assets (e.g., water supply
and roads) will have substantial value at the end of the period, but no residual
values were assumed for these facilities in the calculation. In view of
these assumptions, the financial return calculation is considered conservative.
7.14      As discussed in para. 5.27, the considerable flexibility in the
building design and execution schedule would assure that investments are made
in line with proven demand. While on the one hand delays in rental contracts
are possible, it is likely that larger firms with requirements for more
than one building would be attracted for early occupancy. Cost overruns are
also possible although, as discussed in para. 6.02, adequate contingencies
have been provided. Nevertheless, even under a set of assumptions which are
not likely to occur, such as (i) a slippage of one year in rental revenues
without a compensating slip in investment, and (ii) capital cost increases of
10% on all items, the financial rate of return is 8%, which would still be
acceptable in view of the expected economic benefits discussed in the following
chapter. In order to "break even," i.e., recuperate the total investment with
no return, ZFIC needs to realize only 43% of the projected revenue stream from
the EPZ over the 25-year assumed project life.
VIII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND PROJECT RISKS
A.   Economic Rate of Return
8.01      The direct purpose of the proposed expenditures for establishing
and operating the EPZ is to attract potential investors by offering prepared
industrial sites and services for exporting enterprises. This investment
would subsequently induce a series of investments over time in individual
manufacturing plants. A comprehensive economic evaluation of the EPZ should,
therefore, include net benefits on account of:
(a) the direct revenues generated by the project expenditures
by ZFIC; and
(b) the net income for the country provided by the induced
investments.
Income from the rental of factory and warehouse space measures the benefit
arising directly from the provision of industrial sites and services. The
benefits deriving from the induced investments, though somewhat more difficult
to identify and quantify, are still direct benefits of the project and should
be included in the IERR calculation.



- 44 -
8.02      Since the EPZ project is designed to attract foreign investments
which otherwise may not occur in Colombia, much of the proj,ected investment
would be incrementel -1 has n'o opportunity cost to Colombia.  The net bene-
fits to Colombia from such induced investments consist main:Ly of:
(a)  the fuller use of resources, particularly labor and domestic
raw materials, which would otherwise remain underutilized; and
(b) corporation tax revenues.
8.03      In order to estimate the economic rate of return of the EPZ invest-
ment, the financial data must be adjusted to reflect efficiency prices for
costs and benefits. The economic costs are the investment costs of the EPZ
adjusted to border prices using standard conversion factors. The land per se
is largely a mangrove swamp which has no alternative productive use in its
present state and is, therefore, not costed against the project. The recurrent
cost of providing the industrial estate service to investors includes the
administrative and promotion costs of ZFIC, which are expressed in border
prices by converting wages and salaries by the conversion factor for labor,
and other expenditures multiplied by the standard conversion factor. ZFIC's
policy will be to set rental rates in foreign exchange at a level consistent
with full cost recovery, including a 10% financial return on capital, so that
unadjusted rental income is an adequate measure of the direct benefits of the
project. The benefit of induced investments to Colombia is measured by the
difference between actual costs of factors and inputs of prodluction to the
industries and the social costs of those factors (see Annex 1).
8.04      Several key assumptions behind the IERR calculation should be noted.
It is assumed that 6,000 jobs would be created (para. 8.08) at full develop-
ment of the EPZ and, based on a survey of 421 Colombian manufacturing firms
with foreign participation, 1/ output per employee of US$22,500 (1976
prices) was assumed. Tax revenues have been estimated by applying the tax
rate of 40% against net profit projections that were also based on the above
survey. However, only 50% of tax revenues estimated by this method were
included, a conservative assumption to allow for fluctuations in taxable
profits. This final tax revenue figure used in the IERR calculation, after
starting quite low in the first several years to take into account likely
initial low accounting profits of the firms, is about 2.4% of sales, a reason-
able figure.  The average annual earnings per worker were estimated based on
prevailing wages in Cartagena for unskilled labor of about US$1,000 p.a. in
1976. The shadow wage conversion factor of 0.75 was used her,e, equal to a
weighted average of the unskilled agricultural, unskilled urban, and skilled
labor shadow wage estimates for Colombia. Rental revenues and tax revenues
represent about 40% of total benefits each, and wage benefits about 20%.
8.05      The private investment by client firms in machinery and working
capital was not included in the calculation, and neither was the return on
investment to the firm. Since firms in the EPZ would "import" all inputs and
"export" all outputs, viz., even output sold in Colombia is classified as an
import to Colombia and duties are charged on it, market prices; can be assumed
1/   DANE.  Boletin mensual estadistico.  September and October 1976.



- 45 -
to represent the c.i.f. prices typically used in IERR calculations. The
return to the investor should be adequate and comparable to any alternative
investment he could make elsewhere in the world, since his choice to invest in
the EPZ is unconstrained. In any case, a large proportion of the investment
would be incremental foreign investment that would not occur in Colombia with-
out the EPZ, and thus has no opportunity cost to Colombia. Correspondingly,
since foreign owners can repatriate after-tax profits freely, these profits do
not represent a benefit to Colombia. No attempt has been made to calculate
an IERR for the private investment in firms because insufficient information
is available at this time on the specific firms that would be served by the
project.
8.06      The resulting IERR calculation gives a rate of return of 36% to the
EPZ investment (Annex 3, Table 11). This relatively high figure is due to
the fact that the induced benefits, namely the tax revenues and surplus wages,
have been attributed only to the EPZ investment and not to the private firm
investment. This creates a leverage effect on the IERR by attributing all
of the economic "surplus," i.e., any economic benefits above the opportunity
cost of capital, to the EPZ investment alone. This basis for the IERR cal-
culation is justified by the rationale of an EPZ investment, which is that
a country can induce foreign investment and consequent substantial job creation
by making a relatively smaller investment with national resources in the
industrial infrastructure of an EPZ. Thus the 36% IERR estimates the economic
benefits that accrue to Colombia based only on the investment of Colombian
resources. However, in order to measure project benefits using the most
conservative approach, an IERR including only the rental income of the EPZ as
a project benefit was calculated (Annex 3, Table 12). This figure, which
represents the IERR assuming none of the investment is incremented--a rather
unrealistic assumption given the objectives of EPZ (para. 4.06)--is essentially
the financial rate of return of the EPZ investment calculated at border prices.
It is 13%, i.e. higher than the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 11%
in Colombia. This rate of return is also comparable to economic rates of
return calculated for the Bank's industrial estate projects in other countries.
8.07      An IERR of 37% was calculated for the Ceballos-Pasacaballos road
reconstruction (Annex 3, Table 13), which is similar to the 36% IERR
calculated for various road works under the Seventh Highway Project (Loan
1471-CO) in Colombia. This calculation is based on MOP estimates of vehicle
operating costs in Colombia and a 1976 survey by the Municipality of Cartagena
of traffic volume on the road. The reduction in vehicle operating costs and
road maintenance costs were the only benefit streams included in the cal-
culation to avoid double-counting of benefits. The EPZ is projected to
increase traffic on the road by 35% at full development, but no other volume
increases were projected, a very conservative assumption. No separate IERR
for the water transmission main was calculated but, since users will mainly be
industry, benefits should be high and water charges will be set to cross-
subsidize supply to lower income groups. In any case, the transmission main
is necessary for the EPZ and, although the EPZ will use less than half of the
water supplied by it, could be justified on this basis alone. The small
vocational education expenditure under Component III is justifiable by its



- 46 -
beneficial impact on worker productivity and on the quality of maintenance of
machinery in the EPZ. In summary, the average economic rate of return on
components for which the return has been calculated, representing 95% of
project costs, is 36%; if the costs and benefits of the water transmission
main were included, the IERR would not change significantly.
B.   Other Economic Benefits
8.08      The project is expected to have other important benefits which are
either non-quantifiable or not amenable to incorporation in rate of return
analysis. These benefits include:
(1) Export diversification and foreign exchange earning2s. Over
the last ten years or so Colombia has emphasized development
of non-traditional exports, particularly manufactured goods,
as a means of reducing dependence on coffee for foreign
exchange earnings, improving sectoral linkages and increasing
domestic value added and employment. The project is expected
to make a significant contribution towards achieving these
objectives. Total net exports (excluding the value of imported
materials and repatriated profits) of EPZ firms at full develop-
ment could be about US$50-60 million p.a. (at 1977 prices), of
which a large part would be incremental exports attributable to
the project.
(2) Sectoral linkages. Project firms would purchase a substantial
quantity of raw material and other inputs locally. On the
conservative assumption that local purchases would be only
one half of the value of material inputs, at full development
expenditure for local materials could be around US$40 million
annually at 1977 prices. This would be an important stimulus
to local suppliers of agricultural and other raw materials,
intermediate manufactured goods such as textile, yaLrn and
chemical products, and service industries. Many opiportunities
will be created for small-scale, satellite enterprises to
supply inputs to firms located in the EPZ and sell goods to
workers from the zone.
(3) Training and income distribution. Based on a projected
15-18 m2 of factory space per worker, at full development the
firms in the EPZ would employ 5,000-6,000 workers mainly from
the Cartagena subregion. The majority of these jobs would be
for semi-skilled and skilled operatives and thus would result in
significant skill upgrading of the local labor force. Since
low-income migrants would be primary beneficiaries, employ-
ment creation by the project would tend to contribute to a
more equitable distribution of income in the area.
(4) Regional decentralization. It is estimated that enterprises
locating in the EPZ would invest about US$60 million in



- 47 -
equipment and machinery over the period 1980-84. This lev'el
of investment in manufacturing facilities in the Cartagena
area would make a significant contribution to the government's
decentralization policy, expecially when the indirect effects
of sectoral linkages are also considered.
(5)  Migration.  The project would help to reduce the rate of
migration into the city of Cartagena itself, thereby facilitating
efforts at better physical planning and upgrading of low income
districts. The location of the project outside of the city and
within commuting distance of the twelve small towns from which
migrants flow to Cartagena will have the effect of stabilizing
migrants in these towns where complementary social development
programs are being planned. The Bank appraised an urban development
project in the Cartagena area in April 1978, with ZFIC viewed as an
important potential source of income for beneficiaries of that
project.
C.   Cost per Job
8.09      The investment cost per job in the EPZ site is about US$2,750 in
1977 prices. This figure is somewhat high compared to other similar invest-
ments, mainly due to relatively high expenses for land reclamation for the
EPZ. However, this extra expense for land preparation is justified because
industrial land in the area is scarce and the value of the prepared land is
expected to continue appreciating in real terms. A total cost per job figure
including the investment in firms cannot be estimated with any accuracy since
the client firms for the EPZ have not been identified. However, EPZs do not
typically attract heavy industry, and generally have a large proportion of
labor-intensive firms since their main attraction for industries is low-cost
labor. Based on experience in Bank-assisted DFC projects in Colombia, a "best
guess" estimate of about US$15,000 of total investment per direct job is
reasonable. However, this figure neglects the substantial indirect employment
likely to be generated through backward linkages with the agricultural sector,
and ignores the fact that much of the investment capital would be incremental
foreign capital with no opportunity cost to Colombia.
D.   Project Risks
8.10      ZFIC has never undertaken a major construction effort, and has
little experience in industrial promotion. For these reasons, the Bank
would insist that ZFIC designate a qualified project engineer, accountant, and
industrial promotion manager (para. 5.23) acceptable to the Bank, and would
require detailed promotion plans acceptable to the Bank, including PROEXPO's
involvement in promotion, every six months (para. 4.09).
8.11      Increasing protectionism combined with overbuilding of EPZs on a
world or regional scale could cause an oversupply of EPZ facilities. However,
significant increases in protectionism are not likely in the long run. Also,
ZFIC's EPZ should be able to compete effectively with other zones even if



- 48 -
overall demand is low. The more plausible risk is that ZFIiC would not be
able to fill the EPZ with industries meeting all the selection criteria it
has established (para. 4.07). In this case ZFIC would likeLy adjust its
selection criteria that 80% of production must go to countr:Les outside the
Andean Pact and that clients use technology new to Colombia, but the project
should still offer an acceptable return. Finally, failure to adjust fully the
exchange rate in the past has tended to affect exporters unfavorably (para.
3.03), but expectations are that Colombia will devalue its currency this
year at least to keep pace with differentials between Colombian and world
inflation, and, once coffee prices reach a more stable long--run equilibrium,
will maintain a market-determined exchange rate.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND LOAN CONDITIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)  With the government:
(i)  Suitable bridge financing would be made available to
ZFIC in 1979 and 1980 (para. 7.09);
(ii) PROEXPO would take an active supporting role in the
project, particularly in regard to the international
promotion campaign (para. 4.10);
(iii)  The Ministry of Economic Development would oversee project
execution and, jointly with ZFIC, would prepare quarterly
progress reports on the project (para. 5.25);
(iv) Government would provide (a) ZFIC with equity of
US$0.75 million equivalent in 1978, US$1 million
equivalent in each of 1979 and 1980, and US$0.5 million
equivalent in 1981, and (b) EPMC with US$0.8 million
equivalent during 1979 (para. 6.04);
(v)  Government would enforce its policy of requiring free
zones in Colombia to establish rental rates for indus-
trial and commercial uses sufficient to recover full
costs and generate funds for future investments
(para. 7.03);
(vi) Government would take any steps necessary to ensure
that the supply of water, power and telecommunications
facilities would be adequate to meet the needs of
the EPZ (paras. 5.14, 5.08, and 5.12); and thalt the
national road from the port of Cartagena to El Amparo
is upgraded and maintained (para. 5.17); and



- 49 -
(b)  With ZFIC:
(i) ZFIC would submit to the Bank every six months through
the-disbursement period of the loan an updated detailed
promotion plan acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.09);
(ii) The rate of factory construction as well as factory
design will be kept flexible in order to coordinate
with demonstrated demand generated by the promotion
campaign (para. 5.27); and
(iii) ZFIC would keep separate accounts for the commercial
zone and EPZ, its debt:equity ratio would not exceed
65:35 and liquidity ratio would exceed 1.25:1 after
1980, it would seek Bank approval for any investment
outside the project above an annual aggregate total of
US$150,000 equivalent, and it would have its accounts
audited by an independent audit firm and in a form
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 7.11 and 7.12);
(iv) ZFIC would enter into a subsidiary project agreement
with SENA by December 31, 1978 to implement Component III
(para. 5.22).
9.02      Prior to loan effectiveness, the following steps should be taken:
(i) The Board of ZFIC would approve a statement of policies and
procedures (para. 4.02) and promotion plan (para. 4.09), both
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)  ZFIC would designate a project engineer, project accountant,
and industrial promotion manager acceptable to the Bank to
oversee project execution (para. 5.23); and
(iii)  ZFIC would enter into subsidiary project agreements acceptable
to the Bank, including suitable financing arrangements, cost
recovery and maintenance provisions, and backed by detailed
engineering designs, with EPMC for construction of the water
transmission main (para. 5.14), and with the Municipality of
Cartagena for construction and maintenance of the Ceballos-
Pasacaballos road (para. 5.19).
9.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15 million to ZFIC on the terms and
conditions listed in Chapter VI.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
The Economic Rate of Return - Calculation of Induced Benefits
Definition of Induced Benefits
1.        For the private foreign investor:
R = WL + PiI + II                        (1)
where W and Pi are the market prices for labor (L) and domestic inputs (I),
II is private profits, and R is gross sales income. The latter is valued at
f.o.b. prices since a minimum of 80% of ZFIC output is planned for export.
For the national economy, however, the true costs of using labor and domestic
intermediate inputs are their efficiency prices, i.e., the shadow wage (SW)
and the border prices of intermediates (CPi). With the possible exception
of the cost of intermediate inputs, these costs are lower than market costs,
so that gross sales income (already expressed in border prices and equal to
social benefits) would be greater than social costs. Similarly, the effective
return to foreign capital, entrepreneurship, etc., is after ltax profits, not
total profits. This difference is the net social benefit (NSB) which is
equivalent to:
NSB = R - SWL + CPiI + (l-t) II                  (2)
or, substituting (1) into (2):
NSB = (1-SW)WL + (l-CPi)  PiI + t II
W)         Pi)Pi+                       ()
A           B              C
where SW  is the ratio of the shadow wage to the market wage or the conversion
w
factor for labor cost; and
CPi is the ratio of border prices to domestic prices for intermediates
Pi
or the conversion factor for intermediates.
"A" shows remuneration of labor above its shadow price and "C" is corporation
tax revenue, net of any fiscal benefits such as CATs. Given the institutional
setting of the project, industrial export zone firms would probably use a high
proportion of domestic materials only where prices are internationally com-
petitive, i.e., CPi would tend to equal Pi so that the term "B" would tend to
a value of zero. However, an economic rate of return of 15-20% on agricultural



- 51 -
ANNEX I
production has been calculated for Bank projects in Colombia, so there will
likely be a net economic benefit above the opportunity cost of capital
for the induced agricultural production. These "secondary" induced benefits
are difficult to quantify and have not been included in the rate of return
analysis.
Quantifying Induced Benefits
2.        The valuation of the induced benefits is based on results of a
detailed survey of 421 manufacturing firms with varying degrees of foreign
participation. 1/ The survey includes disaggregated data on gross value
of production, value added, employment, wages and exports. Relevant para-
meters estimated from the DANE data are as follows:
Output per employee (000 pesos, 1976 prices)         790 (approx. US$22,500)
Share of value added in output                       .40
Share of gross profits in output                     .24
These parameters exclude information for chemicals and basic metals industries
(SIC 35 and 37) which are unlikely to locate in ZFIC given management's selec-
tion criteria. A detailed study of financiera-assisted project in 1974 showed
an average investment of about US$7,000 per job in 29 firms with average direct
employment of about 155 persons, 2/ but this report has estimated a more
conservative figure of US$10-12,000 machinery and working capital investment
per job in 1976. ZFIC planners estimate that one direct job will be created
for each 15 square meters of covered space rented to investors. Average
annual earnings per unskilled worker in Cartagena is about US$1,000. The
shadow wage conversion factor was .75, or the weighted average of the unskilled
agricultural, unskilled urban, and skilled labor shadow wage estimates for
Colombia. This estimate is conservative given the high unemployment in the
area. Corporation tax revenues accruing to the government can be estimated
using the current rate of 40 percent of net profits, i.e. profits after
interest and depreciation charges. However, no tax payments were assumed in
the IERR calculation the first year and only 50% of the estimate was included
the second year of firm operations to allow for typical low accounting profits
in early years for most businesses.
1/  DANE.  Boletin mensual estadistico.  September 1976 and October 1976.
2/   World Bank.  Colombia; Special Study--Development Impact of Financiera-
Assisted Projects. January 1976, Report No. 1037-CO.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule for the Bank Loan
(US$ millions)
Disbursements in Quarter                  Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter   For EPZ 1/ For Road  For Water  For SENA            Disbursements
Main
1978/79
September 30, 1978                   .7         .1                                        .8
December 31, 1978                   1.3         .4                                       2.5
March 31, 1979                       .6         .4          .2                           3.7
June 30, 1979                        .8         .4          .4                           5.3
1979/80
-                                   1.0         .4                        .1             6.8
-                                   1.0         .4                        .1             8.3
_                                   1.0                                                  9.3
_                                    .7                                                 10.0
1980/81
.8                                                10.8
.6                                                11.4
.7                                                12.1
.2                                                12.3
1981/82
.6                                                12.9
.2                                                13.1
.7                                                13.8
.2                                                14.0
1982/83
.6                                                14.6
.2                                                14.8
.1                                                14.9
.1                                                15.0
1/    Includes capitalized interest.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Table 1        BOLIVAR - Composition of Value Added in the Department, 1965-1975.
Table 2        Structure of Manufacturing Production.
Table 3        Export Registrations by Main Products 1960-76.
Table 4        Exports of Principal Products.
Table 5        Destination on Non-Traditional Exports, 1968-77.
Table 6        Comparative Average Wages of Semi-Skilled Workers in Selected Countries.
Table 7        Promotion Budget.
Table 8         Staff Growth Projections.
Table 9        EPZ Pro-Forma Balance Sheet.
Table 10       EPZ Financial Rate of Return at Constant Prices.
Table 11       EPZ Economic Rate of Return - Case I.
Table 12       EPZ Economic Rate of Return - Case II.
Table 13       Economic Rate of Return - Ceballos-Pasacaballos Road
Chart 1        Greater Cartagena Area and Export Processing Zone.
Chart 2        Project Execution Schedule.
Chart 3        Organization Chart of ZFIC.



-54-                             ANNEX 3
Table 1:  COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
BOLIVAR - Composition of Value Added in the
Department, 1965-1975
----------Value-------         ----Structure--------
1965     1970      1975        1965    1970       1975
(million 1970 Pesos)               (percent)
Agriculture                     1,161    1,619    2,383          29       33        33
Major crops                 (619)    (734)    (n.a.)    (165)    (15)        (n.a.)
Livestock                   (384)    (558)    (n.a.)    (10)    (11)         (n.a.)
Fishing                      (27)    (116)    (181)         (2)      (7)      (8)
Other                       (131)    (211)    (n.a.)       (:3)      (4)     (n.a.)
Mining                            140       114       100         4        2         1
Manufacturing                     621       787    1,341         16       16        18
Factory Sector              (510)    (679)    (n.a.)    (13)    (14)         (n.a.)
Small Industry              (111)    (108)    (n.a.)        (3)     (2)      (n.a.)
Construction                       92       221       247         2        5         3
Transportation                    525       468       671        13       10         9
Commerce                          705       764    1,267         18       16        17
Other Sectors                     731       907    1,312         18       19        18
TOTAL                           3,975    4,880    7,321         100      100       100
Source:  INANDES.  Bolivar; el desarrollo economico departamental 1960-1975
(based on official statistics compiled by DANE and Banco de la
Republica).



- 55 -                                  ANNEX 3
Table 2: COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Structure of Manufacturing Production
(%)
1968                             1975
Value                            Value
Output   Added   Employment    Output   Added   Emplo-,z.r
Non Durable Consumer Goods       55.3    53.6        51.2         52.3    48.4        50.2
Food                         26.7    14.7         14.1         25.4    14.9        13.9
Beverages                      8.4    13.7         5.4          8.0    12.4         4.6
Tobacco products               2.3     4.4         1.2          1.4     2.4         0.8
Textiles                     10.8    13.7         16.5         11.8    12.5        16.7
Clothing and footwear         5.0      4.4         9.8          3.5     3.5        10.3
Printing                       2.1     2.7         4.2          2.2     2.7         3.9
Durable Consumer Goods            4.7     4.7         3-9          4.3     4.4         6.0
Furniture & fixtures          0.4      0.6         1.7          0.4     0.5         1.6
Rubber products                2.1     1.9         2.2          1.9     2.0         1.8
Plastic products               2.2     1.9         n.a.         2.0     1.9         2.6
Intermediate Goods                30.5    32.6        31.8         32.4    35.3        30.9
Wood and products              0.6     0.5         2.0          0.7     0.7         1.8
Paper and products            2.9      2.7         2.1          4.2     3.1         2.4
Leather                        1.0     1.1         1.5          1.0     0.8         1.7
Chemicals                    10.3    13.1          8.2         11.5    12.3         7.3
Petroleum                      4.1     5.1         0.8          3.9     4.9         1.0
Non-metallic minerals          4.0     5.5         8.4          3.9     5.5         6.8
Basic metals                   3.5     3.6         1.6          3.2     3.3         3.5
Metal products                 4.2     5.0         7.2          4.0     4.7         6.4
Capital Goods                      7.2     7.7        10.3         10.0    10.6        10.5
Mechanical machinery           1.0     1.2         1.9          2.1     2.4         3.5
Electrical machinery           2.8     3.1         3.1          2.4     2.6         2.9
Transport equipment            3.4     3.5         5.3          5.5     5.6         4.1
Other                                3     1.4         2.4          1.0     1.3         2.4
TOTAL                            100.0   100.0       100.0        100.0   100.0       100.0
Source: DANE



Table 3:  COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Export ReRistrations by Main Products 1960-76
(In US$ Million)
Structure of Exports
1960            1965             1967            1974              1975            1976           1960-65             7.            1967-74                          1976
S'Million         Share          S Million          Share         S Million        S'are
Coffee                             348.7           346.7            312.4           623.1             680.5           996.0          2078.2             85.5           3530.0             56.8         996.0             56.2
New No.orts:
Other Agriculture                     22.1             58.9            58.9            304.1            340.7           293.9            195.0              8.0          1109.0             17.8         293.9              16.6
Cotton                            14.1             8.2             21.6            86.8              81.9            91.0            65.2              2.7            332.6              5.4          91.0              5.1
Coffee, beef                       -              12.4              1.9            42.6              88.1            64.4            12.4              0.5            211.2              3.4          64.4              3.6
Sugar                              -               8.0             12.0            96.1              82.5            22.4            28.6              1.2           232.3               3.7          22.4              1.3
Ba-anas                            5.6             19.9            17.2            27.7              38.8            41.2            51.4              2.1            158.9              2.6          41.2              2.3
Tcbacco                            2.3              5.9             4.1            22.1              17.9            27.2            32.8              1.3             88.1              1.4          27,2              1.5
ShriCp, shellfish                  -               -                .              12.9              12.1            20.9              -                -             48.6              0.8           20.9              1.2
Flo-ers                            -               4.5              2.1            15.9              19.5            26.9             4.6              0.2             37.3              0.6          26.9              1.5
Mo,n!facture,                          0.3             20.0            25.3            388.5            303.3           392.1            43.3              1.8           1050.7             16.9         392.1             22.1
Clothir.g & textiles                 0.2              8.8             3.0            184.1            104.7           134.5             16.7             0.7            409.4              6.6         134.5              7.6
m-other and hides                    0.1             4.2              3.7             16.2             17.7            23.5             7.5              0.3            103.6              1.7          23.5              1.3
Che- Cals                            -                -               4.2             66.0             55.7            49.0              -                -             149.0              2.4     6     9.0              2.8
M.etallic products                   -                _               3.1             32.5             21.0            26.9              -                '              96.1              1.5          26.9              1.5
Mech. -nd Elect.                     -                -               2.7             25.4             24.9            39.3              -                 -             66.0              1.0          39.3              2.2
:I-81er 6 wood                       -                4.2             4.2             18.6             12.2            20.6             16.3             0.7             68.7              1.1          20.6              1.2
Pa?er. carton, books                 -                -               -               26.8             34.4            42.5              -                -              83.0              1.3          42.5              2.4
Cerent                               -                2.8             3.1             12.4             22.1            35.1              2.8             0.1             44.3              0.7          35.1              2.0
Glass                                -                -               1.3              6.4             10.7            10.8              -                 -             30.6              0.5          10.8              0.6
Mineral Products                       -                                -                8.8             15.3            21.8              -                 -            152.3              2.5          21.8              1.2      1J
Other Products                        10.9             17.7            38.6            174.9            197.2           161.8           113.5              4.7            562.3              9.0         161.8              9.1
Sub-total New Exports 1/            33.3            96.7            122.9           876.3             856.4           869.7           351.8             14.5          2874.3             46.3          869.7             49.0
Adjustnents                                           -              _3.7            -83.8            -94.3            92.0                                -            190.9              3.1         -92.0              5.2
Net Nev Erports                   33.3            96.7            119.2           792.5             762.1           777.7           351.8             14.5          2683.4             43.2          777.7             43.8
Total E.ports                    382.0           4431.3           431.6          14156             1442.6          177,7           20.0              100                               1.0           7.               100 0 
Source: Banco de 1. Republic,
J  Data are based on registratlon vith flnco de 1  Republica and are therefore not consistent with data in
Table 11, which are based on TNCOME registratlons.
t 



- 57                                         ANNEX 3
Table 4: COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING EONE PROJECT
Exports of Principal Products
(January - October, 1977)
Volume              Value
1976    1977       1976      1977
(000 Tons)         (US$ million)
I. Agriculture, Forestry, Fishery               853.5    784.8    900.5    1442.3
Coffee                                   288.1    235.5    723.6    1218.2
Raw Cotton                                 64.9      68.3     69.4      106.3
Bananas                                   415.3    406.7      37.3       40.4
Meat, fresh and frozen                     19.2      18.9     24.7       31.5
Flowers, cut                               13.0      13.7     23.4       29.4
Shrimps, frozen                             1.9       1.5     14.5       11.6
Sawn lumber                                51.1     40.2       7.6        4.9
II. Mlining and Quarrying                        123.2    214.5        6.7       12.1
TII. Manufacturing                               1667.8   1166.1    503.0        517.8
Food                                      350.3    102.0    127.6       108.6
Beverages                                   0.2      0.3       0.1        0.2
Tobacco                                      -       0.2        -         0.4
Textile fabrics, yarns                     33.8     29.2      84.7       74.4
Garments                                    2.7      3.4      27.7       35.5
Leather products                            2.2       2.1     17.2       23.1
Footwear, leather                           1.3      0.9       7.0        6.4
Wood products                              97.8      55.0     16.8       11.9
Furniture                                   0.9       1.1      2.2        3.7
Paper and products                         52.0     47.3      22.1       21.7
Printed matters                             4.0      4.8      10.3       14.1
Chemicals                                 96.8      70.9      30.6       27.2
Tires and rubber products                   2.1      2.9       4.6        7.0
Petroleum products                         37.4     44.3       2.4        2.9
Cement (Portland)                        818.0    614.3       30.6       21;2
MIetal products                             7.8      14.3     13.1       19.7
Non-electric machinery                     10.6     14.9      21.1       31.7
Electrical imiachinery                      1.8      2.5       4.9        7.4
Transport equipment                         5.6      4.9      15.7       16.2
Others                                    142.5    150.8      64.3       84.5
IV. All Others                                    51.5    107.3       13.9       2.4
Total Exports                    2696.0  2272.7   1424.1    1974.6
Source: Central Bank



Table 5: COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Destination of Non-Traditional Exports, 1968-77
(Values in US$ million)
1968                        1974                    1976                  19:77
(Jan.-Oct.)
Value         %          Value         %          Value         %        Value         %
America                                  98       60 (100)        609       70 (100)       583      68 (100)      950      48 (100)
United States, Canada              50       31 (52)         212       24 (35)        174      20 (30)       540      27 (57)
ALALCl/           2|
Andean Pact-                 23       14 (23)          202      23 (33)        282       33 (48)       267     13 (28)
Other ALALC3/                13        8 (13)           36       4 (6)          21        3 (4)         58      3 (6)
Central American Common
Market4/                         5         3 (5)           32        4 (5)          16       2 (3)         17       1 (2)
Other Latin America and
Caribbean                        7         4 (7)          127      15 (21)          90      10 (15)        68       3 (7)
Europe                                  60        37 (100)        238       27 (100)       237      27 (100)      933      47 (100)
Eastern Europe                      5        3 (8)            34       4 (14)         18        2 (8)         69      3 (7)
AELC5/                             23       14 (38)           18       2 (7)          16        1 (7)         85      4 (9)
Other Western European              4        2 (7)            26       3 (11)         22        3 (9)        126      6 (14)                   1
Lu
Common Market                      28       17 (47)         160       18 (67)        181      21 (76)        653     33 (70)                  OD
Asia                                      4        3               16        2              31        4 (100)       83      4
Mainland China 
Southeast Asia                      4        3               16           -           31        4             83      4
Africa (incl. Middle East)               _         -                 6       1               6        1              7      1
Oceania                                   -        -                 1       -               -       -               1      -
Total                            162       100.0            870      100.0           857     100.0           1974  100.0
* Bracketed figures relate to continental shares.
a/ Includes coffee exports.
1/ Asociasion Latinoamericana de Libre Commercio.
2/ Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela:
3/ Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Paraeiuav, Uruguav.
4/ Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honcluras, Nicaragua.
5/ Asociasion Europea de Libre Commercio: Austria, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland.
Source: Calculated from PROEXPO Data.



59                                  ANNEX 3
Table 6: COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Comparative Average Wages of Semi-Skilled Workers in Selected Countries
1977
Country                                        Daily Wage Range
Developing Countries                              (US$)
Colombia                                            3-4
Dominican Republic                                  4-5
Mexico                                              5-7
Panama                                              5-7
Phillippines                                        2-3
Taiwan                                              4-5
Developed Countries
France                                             35-40
Italy                                              30-40
United Kingdom                                     25-35
United States                                      40-50
West Germany                                       40-50
Note: Quantitative wage comparisons can be misleading due to
disparities among countries in definitions and data collection
methods.
Source: Shannon Free Airport Development Corporation and Bank estimates.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7:  COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Promotion Budget 1/
(US$000's)
Activity                                  1978       1979       1980       1981
Publicity                                 23.5      173.8       62.0       62.0
Seminars                                   -         33.5       11.9      11.6
Public Relations                           7.0       24.0        8.5        8.2
Site Visits                                8.2       19.2        7.0       6.6
Office                                    60.3       67.1       23.8      23.1
External Consultants                      30.0      100.0       60.0      50.0
TOTAL                                     129.0     417.6      173.2      161,5
1/ Totals do not agree with Table 7.3 because some promotion expenses mentioned
here are classified as operating expenses for purposes of financial statements.
Source: ZFIC projections



- 61-                                  ANNEX 3
Table 8:  COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Staff Growth Projections
Number of Staff (as of 12/31)
Department                      1977      1978       1979       1980
Manager                           6          6         8          8
Finance and Administration       13         15        24         27
Technical                         8        10         20         27
Social                            9         9         14         19
Industrial                        5         5         10         17
Commercial                       24        28         40         54
TOTAL                            65         73       116        152
Source: ZFIC projections.



- 62 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 9: COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
EPZ Pro-Forma Balance Sheets
(Current US$ thousands)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                            1,705    151    272  3,436  7,905  13,341 21,062
Receivables                       -        -      -       -      -       -      -
Total                        1,705    151    272  3,436  7,905  13,341 21,062
Fixed Assets
Land                            2,247  2,672  2,729  2,729  2,729   2,781  2,781
Civil Works                     1,033  2,157  3,065  3,489  3,489   3,489  3,489
Buildings                         118  4,566  9,810 11,839 14,409  14,860 14,890
Utilities                         595  1,527  1,848  1,953  1,953   1,953  1,953
Equip. & Sup.                     589    728    859    911    962        973    973
Less: Cum. Dep?n.                       27    134    529  1,188  1,951   2,819  3.707
Total                        4,555 11,516 17,782 19,733 21,591  21,237 20,349
Deferred Int-IBRD                   46    337    886  1,627  2,131   1,967  1,803
Total Assets                 6,306 12,004 18,940 24,796 31,627  36,545 43,214
Liabilities & Equity
Current Liabilities
Payables                                  -      -       -      -        -      -
Debt Maturing-FFDU                314    273    244    218    193        183    -
Debt Maturing-Bridge Financing   -        812    725    346    -         -      -
Debt Maturing-IBRD                -       -      -       -      932      932    932
Total                          314  1,085    969    564  1,125   1,115    932
Long-Term Liabilities
FFDU Loan                       1,856  1,299    848    514    242        -      -
Bridge Financing                  -        57    521    -       -        -      -
IBRD Loan                       2,052  5,522  8,739 10,518 11,023  10,252  9,320
Total                        3,908  6,878 10,108 11,032 11,265  10,252  9,320
Equity
Government Cont. l/             1,962  2,962  3,962  4,359  4,359   4,359  4,359
Com. Zone Cont.                   328  2,403  5,072  8,941 13,473  18,468 25,016
Retained Earnings 2/              (206) C1324) (1,171)  (100) 1,405   2,351  3,587
Total                        2,084  4,041  7,863 13,200 19,237  25,178 32,962
Total Liabilities &
Equity                        6,306 12,004 18,940 24,796 31,627  36,545 43,214
1/   Includes land donated by Exxon valued at Col$7,500,000, and approximately Col$13,500,000
of a FONADE Loan for the CFI engineering study that will be paid directly by the
Government.
21   Includes exchange gains on the FFDU and bridge loan.
Source: Mission estimates.



-63 -                                        ANNEX 3
Table 10:  COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
EPZ Financial Rate of Return at Constant Prices
(US$ thousands)
Capital                          Operating            Net            Net Present Value
Costs           Revenue         Expenses          Cash Flow         6%        8%        10%        11%
1978      1     (3,105)              -               (160)            (3,265)       (3,080)  (3,023)  (2,968)    (2,941)
2     (5,970)             30               (593)            (6,533)       (5,814)  (5,600)  (5,399)    (5,302)
3     (5,203)          1,283               (465)            (4,385)      (3,682)  (3,481)  (3,294)    (3,206)
4     (1,887)          2,139               (492)              (240)         (190)     (176)     (164)      (158)
5     (1,751)          2,457               (523)               183           137       124       114        109
6        (318)         2,722               (523)             1,881         1,326    1,185    1,062        1,006
7        -             2,752               (523)             2,229        1,482    1,301    1,144         1,074
8        -             2,752               (395 /            2,357         1,479    1,273    1,100        1,023
9         -            2,752               (395)             2,357         1,395    1,179    1,000          921
10         -            2,752                (395)            2,357         1,316    1,092        909        830
11         -            2,752               (395)             2,357         1,242    1,011        826        748
12         -            2,752               (395)             2,357         1,171       936       751        674
13         -            2,752               (395)             2,357         1,105       867       683        607
14         -            2,752                (395)            2,357         1,042       802       621        547
15         -            2,752               (395)             2,357           983       743       564        493
16         -            2,752               (395)             2,357           928       688       513        444
17         -            2,752               (395)             2,357           875       637       466        400
18       __             2,752               (395)             2,357           826       590       424        360
19         -            2,752               (395)             2,357           779       646       385        325
20         -            2,752               (395)             2,357           735       506       350        292
21         -            2,752               (395)             2,357           693       468       319        263
22         -            2,752               (395)             2,357           654       434       290        237
23         _            2,752               (395)             2,357           617       401       263        214
24         _            2,752               (395)             2,357           582       372       239        193
25A     2,244-/         2,752                (395)            4,601         1,072       672       425        339
25B    10.638g./        2.752                (395)           12,995         3,028    1.898    1.199          957
Total   B        (7,596)        60,919            (10,389)            42,934         9,630    4,771    1,397          108         11.1% 12
Total   A      (15,990*-'       60,919            (10,389)           (34,540)        7,674    3,545        623        (510)       10.6% 3/
/ After 1984 operating expenses only includes $24,000 Promotion for Cartagena office.
2/ Residual value is only that of land improvement which at the end of 1979 would have a current value of $2,244,000
and is increased 7% p.a. thereafter (case B).
3/ With no land appreciation on the residual value (Case A).



Table 11:  COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
EPZ Economic Rate of Return - Case I
…--Costs----------            -----Benefits-----
Capital       Operating       Rental         Wages        Tax           Net         Net Present Value at
Year        Costs         Costs            Revenue                     Revenue      Benefit        30%          40%
--------------------------- $000, 1977 prices --------------------------------------------------
1        (2,739)         (134)           --            __            __        (2,873)        (2,442)     (2,298)
2        (5,266)         (496)           30            --            __        (5,732)        (3,726)     (3,267)
3        (4,589)         (389)         1,283           715           --         (1,540)         (770)        (631)
4        (1,664)         (411)         2,139         1,010         1,195         2,269           885          658
5        (1,544)         (437)         2,457         1,290         2,290         4,056         1,216          852
6          (280)         (437)         2,722         1,500         3,070         6,575         1,515          608
7                        (330)         2,752         1,500         3,270         7,192         1,297          725
8                                                                                              1,009          577
9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I721   412
10                                                                                                577          294
11                                                                                                432          210
12                                                                                                 360         150
13                                                                                                 288         107
14                                                                                                154           77
16                                                                   NV85                                       39
17                                                                                                  66          28
18                                                                                                  50          20
19                                                                                                  39          14
20                                                                                                  30          10
21                                                                                                  23           7
22                                                                                                  18           5
23                                                                                                  14           3
24              1/                                                                                  10           2
25         2,244-         (330)        2,752          1,500         3,270         9,436             10           1
1L171      (1,342)
Economic Rate of Return  =   36%
1/ Residual value of the land only.
February 1978



Table 12: COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING PROJECT
EPZ   Economic Rate of Return - Case II 1/
Capital       Operating         Rental             Net                Net Present Value at:
Costs         Costs             Revenue            Benefit              15%            10%
1             (2,739)          (134)            _ _              (2,873)             (2,498)        (2,612)
2             (5,266)          (496)            30               (5,732)             (4,334)        (4,737)
3             (4,589)          (389)          1,283              (3,695)             (2,430)        (2,776)
4             (1,664)          (411)          2,139.                 64                   37            44
5             (1,544)          (437)          2,457                 476                 237            296
6               (280)          (437)          2,722               2,005                 867          1,132
7                              (437)          2,752               2,315                 870          1,188
8                              (330)          2,752               2,422                 792          1,130
9                                                                                       688          1,027
10                                                                                       599            934
11                                                                                        521           849
12                                                                                        453           772
13                               C                                                        394           702
14                                1 l\/342                                                              638            U
15                                                                                        298           580
16                                                                                        259           527
17                                                                                        225           479
18                                                                                        196           436
19                                                                                        170           396
20                                                                                        148           360
21                                                                                        129           327
22                                                                                        112           298
23                                                                                         97           270
24                                                                                         85           246
25              2,244-g.        (330)          2,752               4,666                  142           431
TOTAL                                                                                      (1,604)         2,937
Economic Rate of Return  =  10 + 5  2937   =   13%
1/ Benefits are equated with direct rental income of ZFIC only.
2/ Residual value of the land only.
February 1978



Table 13:  COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Ceballos-Pasacaballos Road
Vehicle Operating Costs Savings
Year         Capital      Maintenance          Light         Buses      Trucks      Benefit    Net Discounted Benefit (Cost)
Costs      Costs Savings      Vehicles                                 (Cost)          25%            40%
1             (500)          12               __                                     (488)           (439)        (414)
2           (1,130)          24               --             --         --         (1,106)           (796)        (663)
3           (1,130)          24               205             75        240          (586)           (399)        (246)
4                            14               425            155        495         1,089             500          315
5                            15               440            160        515         1,130             418          226
6                            15               460            170        535         1,180             342          165
7                                                                                                     283          118
8                                                                                                     224           82
9                                                                                                     177           59
10                                                                                                     141            35        1
11                                                                                                     118           23         0
12                                                                                                      94            23
13                                                                                                      70           11
14                                                                                                      59             8
15                                                                                                      47             5
16                                                                                                      35             3
17                                                                                                      35             2
18                                                                        V-V23                                        1
19               -15                          460             170        535         1,180              11
20                                                                                                      11
TOTAL                                                                                                  959        (180)
IERR = 37%
Assumptions
1)  Traffit volume estimates from 1976 survey by Cartagena Department of Valorization.
2) Traffic volume expected to grow 35% as a result of EPZ investment.
3)  Vehicle operating cost estimates from MOP Sectoral Planning Office, April 1976.
4)  By third year 50% of road construction completed and rendering benefits.
a                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDuSTR        PORTZ PROCE551W, ZONE                                                                                                                                     Cai, Ce1
A rp~~~~~~yt ~~A 'A                              Catg-e
j                                                                                                                                                      14.  l  <' ' '   Sr  i  j  f 0  |:   I
Prolect boundary ze~~it/                                                                                                                                                                       _      VcJ  5,\  ['C- ';S<' ;>__ 
2
f                                 C C 5 AZb B f f hF-- 0   i L,zl  0  0   G 4 <   0   2 r   f    L,ABI
3olry  ~                                              ,bu ldi,gs                                                                                                                                   ECUADOR    N'
7'::    ">                         0~C      Ad,eseseteanes''  /reC                                                                                                                                          C '      '
"'Proioot hards               '0~Coolee                          C2'gsj                   i2;          f00*
.... PPCCPA,ie   f                      -       rlna   ole                                                    G 
sE   X   :                           l;           :            0                      CE8ALLOS/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ IL
/ <, 0 0 0 0 0 0 : ¢ ) /CAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERUO 
'reas  ~    ~                                                        '2                 ~                                                  Souheast Zone
C~~~~~     f tSOC  3Co       ,              l  '     'DtOIC2U
SC                                          C".-:,_ ,  /; ,                                                     -          '1 ,CA,ZAs                                                                     --
F     .                             2 FDlLAYA*tod                            0                                       y -  -AO                                       : N
CAI'/Ab  CA N           5I-A                                 C"~C
'C-,   'C"'!>                         C" dvMrioi sesn4                               E . .;   "v2
DE CSPAQUE
'>--_> ~ ~     ~     ~     ----R.d /o -odh bofinncd  by go,v-rmet                                                      .-   ..        Z,,                                ,
Bo    06ro)               ~~M.mEicsrEd                                                       MAMONAL.                 - .*           K o\
'\ L t5t9ect   9rrns                                                 0                         8  .      1                       7~~~~~C~A   LO
fM °                     .             2             3 r-  
pC ~~~~~~~KILOMETEFSj, L'/
.4ES~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~"
F   Q          }                      2                              1i g iIs<,>>29t~~~~~K"CASrIC,                         t
N1E                                                In3t1aepr  T,              ; .        B_ RNOZ
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                                                             C'                               N   1  S-b,,0@W5*F   AeMFwSEF   R¢5S5  fF     5 0°    )j
-'       eplffMgTsfee lD5a5b Y,  , C '...5
f~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~C BavC-'-'-'-"g i m/  =   _ rw  y             =                                          g       /           
4Zrr i ' __ E } $ 7n Pesonobe lol > m lM   artcCt4 






ft                                                                                                                                                                           ft
ft   ft    ft    0    ft    ft   ft.   ft    ft   0           0    ft    ft    ft    ft                         C      ft   C     ft   0     ft  C)    'ft
ft            H    C    C    H    H    ft   C)   ft'   C    C)   C    0    'ftC)    ft   ft-ftC                     E       '                                                                    C'   H    C    C
C             ft    ft    ft   ft.-  0     ft,        ft    rft  ft.   ft   ft    C     ft'  ft.   -     ft    ft               4                                                                   ft    -    ft.   ft    ft
C              ft   ft    ft.  ft    ft    ft    ft    -.   ft    ft   ft.   ft   ft    ft    ft    o    a                 ft
ft            rft  ft          ft   ft   ft   C)   ft   ,ft   ft,ftft'ft                ftftftftft                  ft         -      ft   ft   ft  ft    C'   ft   ft   ft    a    ft  ft.  ft.  ft   ft   ft   ft.  ft
C                      ft   ft                ft                    '         '    ft    -.                                                0     ft
0          0                            ft   ft   ft           ft               0    ft   0
ft   I                                                C                         -          ft          -.'.  ft   -      ft  ft     ft    ft   ft         C           'ft  .-.   ft.   ft
ft0Cftftftft)ft                                                                                                    ft ft
-    '       ft                ft   ft    a    ft          ft          ft   ft   ft           o           ft         a                                       C                o                            HO
a             ft                                                ft         ft                                      H           -          -               ft               ft                     -    ft          a     -
ft                        C                                                                                                                                                                                                ,-.   ft
ft     ft.              a           ft   ft    o.         a           '                           a          o                                  ft    ft   ft   'C)    ft   ft    ft   -.    ft.   -    -'..  ft
-                ft   ft               ,-.   a           a.          o    a    ft.,  ft
ft                       ft               H                                             ft)  ft   ft                          '     C          ft         -    ft.  -.           -'   C           .-'   ft   ft                a
ft   ft                           '                     .         H                          -    ft          -           ft  ft           ft   ft
ft            -           ft  ..          H     ft        C      ft                    ft   -    ft          ft                     C           ft         ft   C      *   ''         C                 ft.  ft   ft
ft            ft          'ft  0          ft.               ft    a                          ft.   ft          ft                                          ft                           ft               ft   ft.   ft    a
C          ft              0                                  -                                                                                               a                                 ft              L
0                          a                     I'         H                                                         ft

______________    _____________                                                         _______                                                     ____________
ft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ftC
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ft
____________                                                                                                                                      *          C
ft 
a         H
(ft    0
____________                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ft  Ca
_____________                                   _________________                                               ----------.--------                                                                                        C
ft'                                                    __________________________                                                                                                                                                 N  ft
ft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ft
_________-                -..------- -  ------------                                                                                                                                                                  (ft



Chart 3: COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE1PROJECT
Organization Chart of ZFIC
Board of Directors  -             A _ G        e
Planning
Financia                 Manaer e                       Legal
lAssistan
Technical           Finance and               Industrial                Commercial                  Social
Department          Administration            Department                Department                Department
Department
., ...-__,.    



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Industrial and Commercial Free Zone in Colombia
Al   Untitled.  Compilation of national laws, decrees, and resolutions
relating to free zones.
A2   Business Operations in Colombia, 1978.  An investor's guide to
the tax and investment laws of Colombia.
Situacion Actual -e las Zonas Francas Colombianas, 1974.  A
study by the National Planning Department of Colombia's
experience with free zones.
A4   Zonas Francas Industriales y Comerciales en Colombia, 1977.
Review by the Ministry of Economic Development of the
current situation of the six free zones in Colombia.
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1   Escala, 1976.  This periodical devoted an entire issue to a
review of the plans for the EPZ of ZFIC.
B2   Resumen, Informe Final, 1977.  The final summary report of the
design engineers of the EPZ, Consorcio de Ingenierias (CDI).
B3   Etapa 1, Reporte Final, 1976.  The final report of consultants
to ZFIC from the Shannon Free Airport Development Corporation
on the proposed EPZ.
B4   Un Analisis de Costo y Beneficio Social, 1977.  An analysis of
potential social costs and benefits of the EPZ by Caribbean
Growth Enterprises, Ltd.
B5   Promotion Plan of ZFIC, 1978.  The original plan and semi-
annual updates will be maintained in the project file.
B6   Acuerdo, 1978.  Policy statement of ZFIC.



