Document of
FILE CuPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2342-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ZONA FRANCA INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL DE CARTAGENA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING
ZONE PROJECT
May 31, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1977           March 31, 1978
Currency Unit  =  Peso - Col $                        Col $
US$1           =  Col$36.985                          38.42
Col$1          =  US$0.027                            0.002603
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOR             -  Banco de la Republica
CFP             -  Corporacion Financiera Popular
DFC             -  Development Finance Company
EPMC            -  Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena
EPZ             -  Export Processing Zone
ICB             -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA             -  International Development Agency
IDB             -  Inter-American Development Bank
IERR            -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
INSFOPAL        -  Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
PROEXPO         -  Export Promotion Fund
SENA            -  Servicio National de Aprendizaje
ZFIC            -  Zona Franca Industrial y Comercial de Cartagena
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Zona Franca Industrial y Comercial de Cartagena (ZFIC).
Guarantor:                The Republic of Colombia.
Amount:                   US$15 million equivalent.
Terms:                    Repayment in 17 years including 4 years of grace
and interest of 7.5% per annum.
Project
Description:            The project seeks to increase and diversify
exports as well as foster employment in one
of the poorest regions of Colombia. The project
consists of: (a) the development of 38 ha of
land, construction of buildings and auxiliary
infrastructure for industry; (b) construction
of a power distribution line to the project site;
(c) technical assistance for international promo-
tion; (d) rehabilitation and widening of a road
from the project site to the port connecting
highway; (e) construction of a water trans-
mission main from an existing treatment plant;
and (f) construction and equipping of a small
training center. Achievement of project benefits
is dependent upon adequate demand by industries
for space in the proposed export processing zone
(EPZ). Cartagena's comparative advantages should
ensure that even with reduced international demand
for space in EPZs, a substantial portion of project
benefits would be achieved.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Estimated Cost:                                     Local      Foreign      Total
--US$ Million Equivalent---
Export Processing Zone   9.5          7.2        16.7
Technical Assistance      0.1         0.2         0.3
Road and Water Supply    2.2          1.8         4.0
Vocational Training       0.1         0.2         0.3
Physical Contingencies   1.2          0.9         2.1
Price Contingencies       3.2         2.6         5.8
Total Project Cost       16.3        12.9        29.2
Interest during
Construction              -         2.1         2.1
Total Financing
Required               16.3        15.0        31.3
Financing Plan:                                       Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Government                   4.2         -          4.2
Internal Cash Generation
of the Free Zone
Authority (ZFIC)           7.2         -          7.2
Contribution of the
Vocational Training
Service (SENA)            0.1          -          0.1
Contribution of the
Municipal Public
Utility Company (EPMC)   0.1           -          0.1
Bank                          -        15.0        15.0
Domestic Borrowing           4.7          -         4.7
Total Project Cost      16.3        15.0        31.3
Estimated Disbursements:              FY79      FY80      FY81     FY82      FY83
------- (US$ Million Equivalent) -------
Annual                       5.3      4.7       2.3       1.7       1.0
Cumulative                   5.3     10.0      12.3      14.0     15.0
Economic Rate of Return:   36%
Appraisal Report:            No. 1973a-CO, dated May 24, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
ZONA FRANCA INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL DE CARTAGENA (ZFIC)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING
ZONE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Zona Franca Industrial y Comercial de Cartagena (ZFIC) with the
guarantee of the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$15 million to
help finance an export processing zone project. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments and
provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. An updating
report is being prepared and is scheduled for distribution to the Executive
Directors in August 1978. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural
economy made up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban
industrial economy oriented increasingly toward international trade. This
broadening of the country's productive base has been accompanied by rapid
growth of nontraditional exports and development of a modern sector which
relies to a considerable etxtent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1974 GDP
rose by an average of 6.5% per annum in real terms, well above the historical
average of less than 5% (1950-67). Accelerated economic growth coupled with
a decline in population growth brought about a rapid increase in per capita
incomes. Increased investment and relaxation of the foreign exchange con-
straint were the major factors responsible for this acceleration in growth.
Merchandise exports expanded more than four-fold during this period, and,
most significantly, nontraditional exports became an increasingly important
source of foreign exchange earnings, in large part compensating the slow
growth of receipts from coffee exports. Much of this increase in non-
traditional exports was the result of both product and market diversifica-
tion attributable to the Government's export promotion program. Substantial
medium- and long-term capital inflows to the public and private sectors for
1/   Substantially unchanged from President's Report, San Carlos I Hydro
Power Project (Report No. P-2239-CO).



development projects helped sustain investment levels and enabled Colombia
to maintain the favorable structure of its external debt. However, despite
the substantial progress made during the past two decades, Colombia still
has a long way to go on the road toward modernization; it still is essentially
an underdeveloped country with a limited modern sector superimposed on a
broad, traditional and poor base.
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974, the country
was faced with a generally deteriorating economic situation--weakening balance
of payments, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, accelerating
inflation, deterioration of the public finances, and reduced public invest-
ment. GDP growth showed signs of slowing and unemployment was increasing,
especially in the urban areas, reaching a peak of 13% in 1974. As a con-
sequence, the new administration moved rapidly to introduce an economic
stabilization program along with a set of reforms aimed at restoring the basis
for long-term economic growth. In line with these goals, it initiated basic
reforms of the fiscal, monetary and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen the public finances, the new Government undertook
a comprehensive tax reform designed to achieve a substantial improvement in
the progressivity and elasticity of the tax system. Steps were also taken to
correct major distortions which existed in the price system. Price controls
on a number of important agricultural products were removed, thereby providing
greater stimulus for increasing farm production. Far-reaching modifications
in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining self-sufficiency in production
of crude petroleum by improving incentives for exploration and exploitation
were introduced. Concurrently, measures were taken to reduce the subsidy on
local consumption of petroleum products, with the dollar equivalent price of
gasoline being raised in successive steps by 150% between August 1975 to
January 1977.
6.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 and 1976, with real GDP increasing
by less than 5% in both years. This was the result of the stabilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974, the effects of the world recession,
reduced private investment, and, in 1976, a poor harvest stemming from adverse
weather conditions. The stabilization program succeeded in reducing inflation
from 27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975, but the expansionary impact of rising inter-
national reserves caused by higher coffee prices and shortages of basic food
items produced an acceleration of inflation to 26% in 1976. Private invest-
ment declined in real terms during this period as a consequence of attempts
to stabilize the economy through tighter fiscal and monetary measures.
Public sector revenues and savings were strengthened as a result of the tax
reform and of increased revenue from coffee export taxes. The balance of
payments improved substantially in 1976, mainly as a result of an increasing
trade surplus caused by higher world coffee prices. Consequently Colombia's
net international reserves rose by nearly threefold, from US$437 million
in 1974 to US$1,166 million in 1976.
Recent Economic Performance
7.        Growth and employment picked up significantly in 1977, largely
is a result of increased internal demand generated by the income effects of



exceptionally high export receipts from coffee. GDP is estimated to have
increased by 5.4%. This higher level of growth was distributed evenly over
all sectors of the economy except non-coffee agriculture which was affected
by the continuation of the severe drought which began in the second half of
1976. High world coffee prices during 1977 produced a record trade surplus
and the balance of payments registered an overall surplus for the year of
US$686 million. By year end, Colombia's net international reserves stood at
US$1,852 million, equivalent to seven months' imports, the highest level in
the country's history. Increased export receipts from coffee contributed to
a further strengthening of public finances over that which had occurred in
1975-76. Increased receipts from taxes on coffee exports caused a substantial
increase in the current surplus of the Central Government, more than off-
setting unexpected slower growth in some of the country's other major taxes.
8.        Expansion of coffee earnings combined with the shortages of basic
food items led to an unprecedented acceleration of inflation during the
first half of 1977. For the twelve month period ending in June 1977 infla-
tion reached 45%. In an attempt to reduce inflationary pressure the Govern-
ment introduced a number of fiscal and monetary measures aimed at curbing
growth of coffee producers' disposable income, at further strengthening public
finances and at slowing the growth of the monetary aggregates. Legal reserve
requirements were increased, limits were placed on external borrowing, and
Central Bank rediscounts were reduced. The coffee retention tax rate was
doubled from 23% to 46%, and the system of delayed payments to coffee pro-
ducers was used to further limit growth of coffee producers' disposable in-
come. In order to increase aggregate supply and stem the rapid accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves, import duties were reduced and the import
licensing system was liberaLlized. In an effort to curb upward pressure on
prices, the authorities temkporarily discontinued their policy of periodic
adjustments in the foreign exchange rate and in prices of petroleum products.
The last two measures were only a temporary expedient to break the infla-
tionary spiral. From July 1977, the Government has resumed periodic ex-
change rate adjustments and in January 1978 increased the price of gasoline
by 20%. The Government intends to continue to pursue policies that maintain
Colombia's international competitiveness and that help regain petroleum
self-sufficiency.
9.        Another conflict between short-term and long-term objectives exists
in the Government's interest rate policies. To avoid cost push effects,
nominal interest rates were frozen during the period of accelerating inflation
and real interest rates declined rapidly and became sharply negative. As a
consequence there was a growing unwillingness on the part of the public to
hold medium- and long-term financial assets, and investment funds had to be
increasingly allocated by cumbersome administrative controls. The problem
has become less serious as inflation has abated, but will require further
attention by the Government.
10.       The stabilization measures taken earlier in the year, the gradual
decline of world coffee prices from June 1977 on, and the availability of more
ample agricultural supplieis on the domestic market resulting from both improved



weather and increased imports, produced a dramatic slowdown in inflation in
the second half of 1977. For the full year 1977, inflation was reduced to
29%. The Government's contractionary fiscal and monetary policies are
contributing to further declines in the rate of inflation (through end-
April 1978 the annual rate of inflation has declined to 16.5%). Lower inter-
national coffee prices and rapid increases in imports are expected to lessen
inflationary pressures from the external sector. Prospects for this year's
agricultural output appear good; it is expected that in the coming months
the rate of inflation will continue to slow down.
Development Strategy and Prospects
11.       The Government's development strategy, embodied in the 1975-78
development plan, aims at creating the conditions necessary for substantially
increasing employment opportunities, particularly for the poorest segments of
the population. It provides incentives for private sector investment in the
least developed areas of the country and for the use of more labor intensive
production techniques. Public sector investment specified in the Plan concen-
trates on expanding and improving infrastructure and on socially oriented
projects designed to alleviate rural and urban poverty. This includes compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition programs which directly
benefit the lowest income groups of the population. Because of the importance
of commercial agriculture in generating employment and expanding exports,
Colombia's development plan assigns a high priority to providing farmers
with credit and technical services required to increase output. In order
to alleviate urban poverty, the Plan places emphasis on reducing migration
to the cities by increasing employment in agriculture and through provision
of improved services in slums of Colombia's major cities. These efforts
are being complemented by policies and programs to encourage the development
of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry away
from the three largest cities. Special priority is given to the development
of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's growing dependence on
imported oil.
12.       In the past three years substantial progress has been made in
carrying out this strategy despite the economic dislocations occasioned by the
world recession and the need to concentrate on short-term economic management.
Most of the Government's development efforts during this period have focussed
on improving the standard of living of the poorest 50% of the population, with
a substantial share of the benefits of public sector expenditures accruing to
this segment of the population. Provision of improved social services has
been a major objective of the current administration. This is reflected in
the increase in expenditures on education, health, water and sewerage, which
rose from 33% of total expenditures in 1974 to 37% in 1976. Preliminary
estimates show an even higher share spent on such programs in 1977.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding
deficit which could reach significant proportions by the early 1980s. To
avoid the constraint on growth that shortages of energy would entail, the
Government is giving high priority to the development of alternative energy



sources. Major projects are being developed to expand hydroelectric power
generation and incentives are being provided private companies for accele-
rated exploration and exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon potential.
Coal and natural gas are expected to provide an increasing contribution to
the country's energy needs in the future. An energy development program,
which would neacly triple power generation by 1986, has been drawn up by
the Government, with estimated investment requirements of between US$6.0 and
US$8.0 billion in constant 1976 prices. Given the long gestation periods
of power projects, their execution must be initiated without delay if energy
constraints on future growth are to be avoided.
14.       The Government is making a major effort to accelerate growth of the
agricultural and industrial sectors. In the past, Colombia has been largely
self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs. However, an increasing food deficit is
projected for the years ahead in the absence of major advances in food pro-
duction. The Government is attempting to meet these needs through integrated
rural development programs directed towards small farmers, through expanded
farm credit, research, extension and marketing facilities and through improved
farm management practices, including farm investment planning. Industry has
been singled out as the leading growth sector for the future and the Government
has adopted exchange rate, fiscal incentive, credit allocation, and locational
policies intended to assure that the sector fulfills its role as a major con-
tributor to employment growth and exports.
15.       Based on its strong resource base and its high level of international
reserves, Colombia should be able to sustain annual real growth of no less than
6% over the period 1978-82. Private sector investment is expected to recover
as inflation subsides and fiscal and monetary policies are eased. Public
sector investment is expected to increase as restraints on such spending are
lifted and major energy projects enter the execution stage. Non-inflationary
increases in public sector investment spending depends to a large degree on
continuing Government efforts to maintain high levels of public sector savings.
In this regard, timely and adequate adjustments of tariffs on public services
is especially important, and the Government has already gone a long way in
the adoption of such policies.
16.       Less buoyant terms of trade as world coffee prices decline from
the high 1977 level and rapidly increasing imports to meet the requirements
of expanding investment are expected to lead to a renewed widening of the
resource balance beginning in 1978. Assuming that economic growth accele-
rates in the industrialized countries and that appropriate incentives--
particularly continuation of periodic exchange rate adjustments--are provided,
nontraditional exports should resume the high rate of growth achieved in
the early 1970s. Colombia is projected to require gross capital inflows of
about US$3.7 billion during the five year period 1978-82, of which US$340
million should be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1976.
This inflow would enable Colombia to maintain an adequate level of foreign
exchange reserves during ithe period. A significant increase in capital
requirements is expected in the early 1980s when major additional projects
in the energy sector will have to be initiated. To achieve these targets,
annual gross capital inflow will have to increase from US$600 million in



1976 to over US$1.0 billion in 1982. While about half of Colombia's capital
inflow is expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources, financing from commercial sources is expected to become increasingly
important during the period as Colombia gains greater access to international
capital markets.
17.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.4 billion exclud-
ing undisbursed commitments. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was
28.5% and is expected to decline to about 25% by 1982. Although the public
debt service ratio fell during the past two years as export growth accelerated,
this ratio is projected to increase from 9.5% in 1976 to about 11% by 1982.
Balance of payments prospects beyond 1980 will depend among other factors on
the timely development of domestic energy sources and on progress made in
executing several natural resource-based export oriented projects currently
under preparation. As a developing country, it is normal to expect Colombia
to be a net capital importer, i.e. to have a deficit in its balance of payments
on current account. However, to avoid an excessive growth in this deficit over
the next few years, careful management of internal demand will be required.
Given such management, it should be possible to prevent the external sector
from again becoming a constraint on economic growth, and to maintain Colombia's
present creditworthiness for external borrowing of substantial amounts on
conventional terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
18.       The proposed loan, the 74th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,778.2 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,165.5 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made effective
investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises
and now holds US$19.0 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, the IDA credit, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1978. The Annex
also contains summaries on the execution of the 23 on-going projects.
19.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
carry social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricultural
loans have been made since then, seven of the ten loans for industry, all
three loans in the education sector, all seven loans for water supply and
sewerage and, most recently, one nutrition and one urban project. This
compares with only nine loans since FY68 in the power and transport sectors.
20.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY77 consisted of loans for rural devel-
opment, agricultural credit, telecommunications, highways and small-scale
industry, totalling US$281 million equivalent. In addition to this proposed
project, the FY78 program includes the recently approved loans for nutrition



improvement, water supply and sewerage, urban development, power generation and
transmission, and a proposed industrial finance project. Work is also under way
in further urban development, water supply and sewerage, transportation, mining,
power, small farm development and agricultural credit for land reform benefi-
ciaries for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next
two years.
21.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
would also attempt to assist in the development of coal mines, which hold poten-
tial in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements. Bank involvement
in the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as some
of the projects would require cofinancing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to assist the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment and to strengthen and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the proposed Bank
lending for transport infrastructure which aims to integrate more backward
areas of the country into the modern economy. In this context, work is under-
way on a project to improve domestic airports. Finally, a relatively large
number of loans in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50%
of the Colombian populationi is under preparation. Recently approved urban
development and water supply and sewerage projects as well as future urban,
water supply and agriculture projects under preparation, are principally
designed to improve the poor's standard of living.
22.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For inistance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education,
water supply, and land erosion; in the future IDB proposes to assist Colombia
in its plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity
of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID has
supported programs in education, urban development and small farm development.
More recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly at improving
the distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid program in
Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition loan.
PART III: INDUSTRY, MANUFACTURED EXPORTS AND THE CARTAGENA REGION
Industrial Performance
23.       In the last 30 years, manufacturing industry has been the leading
growth sector of the economy. During that period the sector's output has
expanded by an annual rate of over 7% and its share of GDP has risen from
11.5% to over 21%. Colombian manufacturing industries now supply more than
80% of the domestic requirements and contribute approximately 25% of total
exports. The largest manufacturing subsectors are food, beverages, textiles,
chemicals and mechanical machinery, which together account for more than 50%



of the total value added in the sector. Employment in industry has grown
correspondingly, reaching 18% of the approximately 6.5 million people employed
by the mid-1970s.
24.       Prior to 1967, Government policies encouraged import substitution.
Extensive protection was given to industry and while these policies succeeded
in expanding industry and reducing imports, they led to a good deal of ineffi-
ciency as well. By the 1960s, the opportunities for import substitution had
become limited and growth in industrial output slowed down from 8% annually
between 1945 and 1960 to 5.5% annually during 1960-67. Nevertheless, by 1967
as a result of these policies, Colombia had achieved a significant level of
import independence, with 98% of consumer goods, 68% of intermediate goods and
51% of capital goods produced domestically. Manufactured exports, however,
were insignificant (about 2% of manufacturing output and 6% of merchandise
exports).
25.       In 1967, the Government reduced incentives for import substitution
and adopted policies aimed at promoting manufactured exports. Consequently,
manufacturing exports grew by nearly 50% annually (in current US dollars) and
amounted to 7% of industrial output in 1974. Whereas manufacturing accounted
for less than 8% of merchandise exports through 1967, it has ranged between
21 and 27% of exports from 1974 to 1977. Export led growth has helped re-
activate manufacturing activity which grew by more than 8% annually between
1967 and 1974 and by more than 6% in 1976 and 1977 after the 1975 worldwide
recession.
Export Policies
26.       The 1967 changes in economic policies were designed to promote non-
traditional exports and thereby reduce the dominance of coffee whose price was
the main exogenous variable in Colombia's economic activity. They included the
introduction of a regular system of exchange rate adjustments, a reduction and
increased uniformity of tariff levels and tax credits and reduced import restric-
tions for exporters. Along with these measures, the Government set up the Export
Promotion Fund (PROEXPO) to provide increased and concessionary financing with
technical assistance to export industries and to promote Colombian exports in
foreign markets. PROEXPO also finances short-term credit in local currency
for exporters at preferential rates of interest (10% per annum compared to 27%
for commercial credit); as of the end of 1976, about US$170 million were
outstanding, of which 70% had gone to manufacturing firms.  PROEXPO has been
successful in promoting Colombian exports in Europe and North and Scuth
America; it advises Colombian exporters on marketing strategy, transportation,
packaging and storage.
Industrial Location
27.       While industrial activity in Colombia is more decentralized than
in any other Latin American country, Colombian industry is concentrated in
the four largest cities, Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla, which
account for nearly 70% of industrial production. The rapid growth of these
cities has created problems of congestion and pollution and has severely
strained the capacity of urban infrastructure. A Government policy paper
estimates that the cost of providing the same public services to new migrants



in the largest cities could be 20 to 30% greater than in the secondary cities,
and therefore, recommends stimulating urban growth in secondary cities. Since
1975, the Government has restricted foreign private investment in Bogota,
Medellin and Cali and is encouraging industrial investment in other areas
of the country by the following measures: (a) provision of increased credit
on more favorable terms to industries outside the major cities; (b) allocation
of an increasing proportion of infrastructure investment for the smaller cities;
(c) increased manpower training and technical assistance; and (d) where appro-
priate, establishment and promotion of industrial parks and free zones.
Industrial Export Processing Zones
28.       In order to stimulate export growth, attract foreign capital, target
industrial growth to specific areas and stimulate employment, the Government
has authorized the establishment of six industrial and commercial free trade
zones 1/. Thus far, most have concentrated on commercial activities including
storage and transport of goods. Only the Barranquilla Zone has attempted to
develop industry in any substantial way, with 26 manufacturing enterprises
having located there since 1972. The zone, however, has not attracted signif-
icant foreign investment as a result of inadequate promotion, poor management
and inefficient transport infrastructure. With the initiation of its indus-
trial decentralization policy, the Government has given greater importance
to export processing zones (EPZs) 2/. Cartagena, with its existing fairly
developed infrastructure, high unemployment and attractive location, was
selected as the city where an EPZ would have a high probability of success and
where a stimulus was requiLred to increase employment and industrial development.
Cartagena
29.       With a population of 400,000, Cartagena is Colombia's fifth largest
city and a major port. In addition to the commercial activities resulting
from the port, Cartagena has developed a sizeable tourism industry and is
Colombia's largest petrochemicals center. While in 1975 Cartagena accounted
for 4.4% of the value added by industry in Colombia, less than 2% of indus-
trial employment was located there as a result of the capital intensive nature
of its industry. Petrochemicals dominate the area's industry with more than
50% of value added. Other local manufacturing includes liquor, glass, netting,
soap, and sacks for coffee. Between 1960 and 1974 Cartagena industrial value
added grew by 9.6% annualLy in real terms led by petrochemicals.
30.       Cartagena's population has grown at an annual 5.6% for the past two
decades as a result of high levels of migration from the surrounding regions.
1/   Free zones are geographic areas within which tariffs and other import
restrictions would not apply.
2/   EPZs are industrial parks set up within free zones.  Imports to and
exports from an EPZ do not pass through customs. However, goods produced
in an EPZ and sold in Colombia are subject to import duties, except on
the local value added.



- 10 -
The department of Bolivar of which Cartagena is the capital is one of the
poorest in Colombia, with an estimated unemployment rate of 24% (excluding
Cartagena whose rate is 19%) compared to a national average of 14%, and with
60% of its communities among the 30% of rural communities in Colombia with
lowest incomes and public services. Although tourism has created an estimated
12,000 jobs since the mid-1960s and direct manufacturing employment rose an
estimated 5.6% or an average of 400 new jobs annually between 1969 and 1975,
job creation has not been adequate.
31.       Furthermore, Cartagena has one of the lowest coverage rates for
public utility services of medium and large cities in Colombia. As of 1973,
approximately 52% of households had water supply connection (compared to
over 70% for all medium and large cities) and only 22% had sewerage connection.
As of December, 1975, there were a total of 12,500 telephone lines (4.3 lines
per 100 persons) with demand for new lines roughly 1-1/2 times that amount.
Bank financed projects in telecommunications (Loan 1450-CO) and water supply
(Loan 1072-CO) are, inter alia, strengthening Cartagena's municipal institu-
tions, would more than double the number of telephone lines in the area
and would meet the city's water supply needs through 1982. The proposed
Third Multi-City Water Supply and Cartagena Southeast Zone Urban projects,
would also expand water supply and sewerage services in Cartagena. The
public entity which owns and operates the EPZ in Cartagena, the Zona Franca
Industrial y Comercial de Cartagena (ZFIC), also maintains a small department
concerned with community welfare and plans to play a guiding role in the
programs to upgrade adjacent settlements.
32.       An EPZ in Cartagena would combine a number of advantages of the
Colombian economy with the city's existing potential to attract industry.
Besides its location on the Caribbean close to Panama, Cartagena has easy
access to major agricultural and industrial areas of Colombia, and thereby
to potential raw materials and intermediate goods. At the same time, Colombia
has the advantage of a sophisticated economy with fairly well-developed
infrastructure and yet moderate wage levels, easily competitive with most
Caribbean and Central American countries. Cartagena has a pleasant ambience,
good port and international airport, extensive commercial and travel services,
and is well served by river and highway transport systems. Also sizeable
domestic and Venezuelan markets would provide alternative outlets to export-
oriented industries located in the zone if changes in world market demand
were to create a short-term need to sell in the region. Hence, a well
managed and designed EPZ in Cartagena should be in a favorable position to
attract export-oriented enterprises.
Bank Role in the Industrial Sector
33.       The first Bank industrial loan to Colombia in 1963 financed Colombia's
largest steel plant, Paz del Rio (Loan 345-CO). In subsequent years, Bank
assistance to the industrial sector was premised on a strategy of developing
local institutions which could effectively select, appraise and finance
large numbers of investments with high returns to the economy. Since 1966,
six Development Finance Company (DFC) loans (totalling US$242.5 million



- 11 -
equivalent) have assisted in building up seven DFC's and in strengthening
the Banco de la Republica (IIOR) to supervise their activities. These loans
financed some 500 subprojects, the great majority of which provided high
returns to the Colombian economy, particularly in terms of increased employ-
ment and exports. A seventh DFC project, to be presented to the Executive
Directors within the next few weeks would further support the seven DFCs,
incorporate new ones, provide required long-term credit resources for indus-
trial growth, and promote the mobilization of domestic and foreign financial
resources.
34.       The Bank is following a complementary strategy in small-scale
industry. Two loans totalling US$20.5 million have been channelled to
Corporacion Financiera Popu:Lar (CFP), which specializes in providing financial
and technical assistance to small firms. The first loan of US$5.5 million
benefitted 300 small-scale enterprises two-thirds of which had total assets of
less than US$85,000. CFP is also expected to assist smaller enterprises and
artisan firms under the recently approved first Urban Development Project
(Loan 1681-CO) and under a proposed Cartagena Southeast Zone Urban Project.
Additionally, the Second Agricultural Credit Loan (Loan 1357-CO), which is
supporting the development of agro-industries generally, is also expected to
help increase value added and employment in small scale agro-industries as
well as in the rural sector.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
35.       The project was prepared by the Zona Franca Industrial y Comercial de
Gartagena (ZFIC), proposed for Bank financing in 1977 and appraised in January
of 1978. His Excellency Virgilio Barco Vargas, Ambassador of Colombia to the
United States, led the Colombian delegation in negotiatons which were held
in Washington in May, 1978. A report entitled "Colombia: Appraisal of the
Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone Project" (Report No. 1973a-CO
dated May 24, 1978) is beirtg circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan
and Project Summary and in Annex III of this report.
36.       The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
reduce industrial concentration, to generate employment and to expand and
diversify non-traditional exports. It would promote industrial growth and
thereby employment in a region outside of the four major industrial centers
with one of the highest raltes of unemployment in Colombia. Through increased
foreign exchange savings, ithe project would help to reduce the country's
foreign exchange dependence on coffee. The project would also complement
other Bank financed efforts to increase public services and to meet the basic
necessities of the urban poor in the EPZ's area of influence.



- 12 -
Project Description
37.       The project would develop 38 ha of swamp and undeveloped land into
on area suitable for the necessary buildings and services for an estimated
30 export-oriented industries employing about 6,000 workers. It would comprise
the first 5-year stage of a 92 ha EPZ to be built over a 12-year period. This
stage was designed to be self-contained and to provide a sufficient rate of
return even if further expansion of the zone does not take place. The project
consists of the followings components:
I.   Export Processing Zone EPZ - (a) civil works for land improvement,
building construction and infrastructure in the zone, including
water, power, sewerage, telecommunication networks, and roads;
(b) construction of a power distribution line from an existing
substation to the EPZ; and (c) technical assistance for
international promotion of the EPZ.
II.   Supporting Infrastructure - (a) rehabilitation and widening of the
highway from the project site to the national trunk road, and
(b) construction of a water transmission main from an existing
municipal treatment plant to the EPZ.
III.   Vocational Training - construction and equipping of a small
training center for the EPZ.
The Borrower, ZFIC
38.       ZFIC was created in 1973 as a public establishment attached to the
Ministry of Economic Development. ZFIC owns the Cartagena commercial free
zone, located near the port of Cartagena, and would own the proposed export
processing zone (EPZ). The Minister appoints the Chairman of the Board of
ZFIC, while local public and private institutions appoint four Board members
each. The manager of ZFIC is appointed by the President of the Republic.
ZFIC currently has a staff of 65, organized into five departments with a
well-staffed technical department supervising the physical construction
and an industrial department responsible for promoting the EPZ to investors,
and managing the EPZ. To ensure efficient project execution ZFIC would
designate a project engineer, project accountant and industrial promoter whose
terms, conditions and qualifications are acceptable to the Bank (Section
7.01(d) of the Loan Agreement) and hire consultants to supervise construction.
39.       ZFIC procedures and policies are set out in various resolutions
and should be consolidated into a single document. A condition of effective-
ness would be that ZFIC's Board approve a single comprehensive Statement of
Policies acceptable to the Bank (Section 7.01(b) of the Loan Agreement). In
order to maximize economic benefits, ZFIC would select industries based on the
following criteria which would be incorporated in the ZFIC policy statement:
the extent of employment generation; the use of Colombian raw materials; the
location of markets (giving preference to industries making inroads in export
markets new to Colombia); the kind of technology (with preference for tech-
nology new to Colombia); and the likely tenure of firms in the zone.



- 13 -
40.       ZFIC would also carry out the rehabilitation of the Pasacaballos-
Ceballos road (see map). The Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena
(EPMC), under the supervision of the Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(INSFOPAL), would be responsible for the water supply component, while the
Servicio Nacional de Apredi.zaje (SENA) would manage the vocational training
center. Specific responsibilities of each executing agency would be spelled
out in subsidiary agreements, satisfactory to the Bank. The execution and
delivery of agreements between ZFIC and (a) EPMC, and (b) the Municipality of
Cartagena, would be condit:Lons of effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan
Agreement).
Detailed Project Description
41.       The EPZ is to be constructed on four adjacent islands of 27 ha to be
interconnected by internal roadways and bridges and on 11 ha for a general
services area including the vocational training center. About 55 industrial
plots with standard factory shells of between 1,200 and 1,800 m2, including an
uncovered patio area would be developed by 1983. The standard factory design
permits flexibility so that most types of equipment and production lines and
large or small firms can utilize it. The project also includes construction
of internal roads and an internal water, telephone and electricity distribution
system. In addition, four warehouses of 800 m2 to provide intermediate storage
and auxiliary facilities would be constructed. ZFIC would also arrange for
construction of a power transmission line designed to meet the demand at
full occupancy from an existing power station to the EPZ. To ensure that the
zone does not pollute the area, industries in the EPZ will be obliged to
remove or neutralize all aggressive waste and excessive suspended matter.
ZFIC's policy statement would provide for further water treatment in line
with standards to be set by the Ministry of Health, and if required, an
overall treatment plant to process waste would be built.
42.       The project would provide about four man-years of technical assist-
ance for the carrying out of an international promotion campaign. Effective
promotion is critical to generating demand for space in the Cartagena EPZ,
and requires specialized skill in advertising, use of different media and
techniques and detailed knowledge of industrial subsectors in various countries.
Based on preliminary studies, ZFIC has identified industries based on agricul-
tural, textile, leather, wood and petrochemical inputs as the subsectors most
likely to locate in the EPZ. ZFIC is carrying out further studies to identify
specifically the variety of industries and firms at which it would target
promotional campaigns. Already, PROEXPO has facilitated meetings between ZFIC
personnel and industrialists in different countries, and would continue to
provide assistance to ZFIC's promotion efforts. The UNDP has funded the
training of ZFIC staff and consultants to help formulate promotional policies
and develop general publicity material. Before the proposed loan would be
declared effective, ZFIC would deliver a detailed promotion plan, which would
be updated every six months and on each occasion satisfactory to the Bank,
stipulating, inter alia, its specific program for promoting the EPZ and the
role of consultants and of PROEXPO (Section 7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
43.       ZFIC would rehabilitate the 14.6 km Pasacaballos-Ceballos road to a
national standard of 7.3 m wide carriageway, 3 m wide shoulder on each side
and a design speed of 80 km per hour. Detailed engineering designs are being
prepared and would be reviewed by the Bank. The Government would finance the
improvement and maintenance of the road linking the project financed road to
the port and to the national highway network. A 12 km water transmission main
from Cartagena's municipal water treatment plant to the project site would be
constructed by the EPMC. The ongoing and proposed Bank Multi-City Water
Supply projects would enable EPMC to meet the needs of the entire metropolitan
area through at least 1988. To be certain that all of the EPZ's utility
service requirements would be met, arrangements would be made, satisfactory to
the Bank, that would ensure prompt and adequate supply of water, power, trans-
port and telecommunications facilities by the respective municipal companies
(Section 3.01(g) of the Loan Agreement).
44.       SENA would develop a vocational training center to meet the specific
manpower needs of the EPZ. The project would finance the construction, fur-
nishing and equipping of a 60-place training center which would train primarily
skilled electro-mechanics and welders and instrument and control systems
maintenance workers and supervisors who would be needed regardless of the
industries which locate in the EPZ. The center would also provide instructors
and assistance for the in-factory training of the regular production work
force.
Project Costs and Financing
45.       Total project costs are estimated at US$29.2 million with foreign
exchange content of US$12.9 million or 44% of total costs. Cost estimates
are based on prices in September, 1977 and include physical contingencies
of 10% for all works except the road component where a 20% contingency was
used because of difficult terrain. Price contingencies amount to 19% of
base costs and are based on estimates of yearly domestic and international
price increases.
46.       The proposed Bank loan of US$15 million equivalent would finance
the foreign exchange costs of the project as well as interest during construc-
tion of up to US$2.1 million, which is required to ensure ZFIC's liquidity.
ZFIC would contribute US$7.2 million equivalent or 23% of total financing
requirements from internally generated funds in addition to a US$2.8 million
credit to ZFIC provided by Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano. SENA would
finance US$100,000 equivalent for the vocational training center and the EPMC
would provide US$60,000 equivalent for the water transmission main. The
Government of Colombia would finance US$4.2 million equivalent, including
US$3.4 million in equity for ZFIC and US$0.8 million for the EPMC. About US$2
million of local financing would be arranged to cover the local costs of road
construction. A breakdown of project costs and financing is presented in the
Project and Loan Summary.



- 15 -
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Contracts with an estimated cost above US$100,000 for equipment
and US$1,000,000 for civil works would be subject to international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Given the number of competent
contractors and suppliers iLn Colombia, all contracts are likely to be won by
local bidders, including local representatives of foreign suppliers. Procure-
ment below the ICB limit would take place according to local procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Civi:L works up to an aggregate cost of US$400,000 or
about 2% of total works may be carried out by forced account. The Bank would
review ex ante all tender documents above US$25,000 for equipment, and
US$125,000 for civil works. The Bank would review ex ante awards for those
contracts subject to ICB, and would review all contracts proposed for Bank
financing prior to authorizing disbursements.
48.       Disbursement would follow standard Bank procedures, with the Bank
disbursing for 100% of documented foreign exchange costs or the estimated
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs averaging 44% of project costs for
civil works and equipment. As considerable time is required for the landfill
to settle before beginning construction, and in order to avoid delaying
overall project execution, the Loan would make available retroactive financing
of up to the equivalent of US$500,000 for payments made after February 1, 1978
for EPZ land filling. The design and construction schedule for each building
would also be approved by the Bank before ZFIC undertakes any capital expen-
ditures for such building construction (Section 3.01(h) of the Loan Agreement).
Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery
49.       A detailed financial analysis has been performed for the EPZ portion
of the project. Projected income statements show that ZFIC's net earnings on
the EPZ will be positive by 1980 and rise to US$1.4 million by 1984. Revenues
would commence in 1979 aVd would derive from rental of industrial space at
US$1.50 to US$2.00 per m  per month (estimated 1979 prices) from rental of  2
general service space (coummercial banks, post office, etc.) at US$4.00 per m
per month, and from fees for storage in EPZ's warehouse. Rental rates were
designed and would be adjtLsted to ensure a financial rate of return of 10% on
the funds invested, and would be competitive with rates charged by other EPZs
in the Caribbean area.  The Government has provided assurances that, in order
to avoid destructive price competition between Colombian EPZs, rental would be
set at levels that would recover the full cost of their investments and would
generate funds to cover a major portion of future investment costs (Section
3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement). The operating costs of the EPZ include
maintenance, estimated at 2% per annum of investment costs, promotion
expenditures, depreciation and the EPZ's shares of the ZFIC's central office
staff and overhead costs.
50.       To ensure adequate liquidity for the project, the interest on the
Bank loan would be capitalized and ZFIC would secure a total of US$3.0 million



- 16 -
of bridge financing in 1979 and 1980 (Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement).
Revenues generated by the commercial zone and the EPZ would be sufficient to
ensure project liquidity after 1980 and, by 1982, continued cash generation of
L.e EPZ would be sufficient to meet local costs. ZFIC has agreed to maintain
a debt:equity ratio no greater than 65:35 to assure its financial soundness
(Section 5.05 of Loan Agreement). Additionally, it would obtain Bank concurence
before making any capital expenditure which is not a part of the project and
which would result in an aggregate of such expenditures exceeding US$150,000 in
any given year (Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement). Also, beginning 1981,
ZFIC would maintain a liquidity ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1 (Section 5.06
of the Loan Agreement). ZFIC has also provided assurances that its account
would be audited by an independent audit firm acceptable to the Bank and in a
form also acceptable to the Bank (Section 5.02(a) of the Loan Agreement).
51.       The financial return for the EPZ investment over 25 years is esti-
mated at 10.6% in real terms. This is satisfactory and is close to the
10% return on investment which has been established in this project as a
guideline for pricing policy. Even using a pessimistic set of assumptions of
a slippage of one year in rental revenues and capital cost increases of 10% on
all items, the financial rate of return is 8.0%, which would still be accept-
able in view of the economic benefits discussed below. In order to recuperate
the total investment with no return, ZFIC needs to earn only 43% of the
projected revenue stream from the EPZ over the 25-year assumed project life.
52.       The investment costs of the reconstruction and rehabilitation
of Pasacaballos-Ceballos road would be recovered from the industries and
landowners along the road through a system of valorization taxes to be
specified in the relevant subsidiary agreement, which must be acceptable to
the Bank (Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement). EPMC would recuperate an
amount in excess of the costs of constructing the water transmission main,
through water charges to the various industries in the area. Similarly,
SENA's income from the 2% payroll tax on the EPZ industries would more than
offset the initial investment costs in the training center. SENA's added
revenue would then be used for other vocational training programs, while the
rates charged by EPMC would cross subsidize low income water users less able
to pay for such services.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
53.       The project is justified as an effort to diversify exports and
increase foreign exchange flows to the country. By providing appropriate
facilities in a favorable investment environment, the project expects to
attract foreign investment that in the absence of the project would largely
not have accrued to Colombia. Simultaneously, the project would provide
a necessary boost to employment and the economy of a region and city with
high rates of unemployment and poverty.
54.       The project is expected to result in the net inflow to Colombia
of an estimated annual US$50 million equivalent (in 1977 prices) in the
form of rent, taxes, wages, and purchases in Colombia. Based on experience
in other EPZs about 6,000 jobs would be created in the zone which would
increase manufacturing employment in the Cartagena area by more than 50%.



- 17 -
55.       The estimated internal rate of return (IERR) on the EPZ component,
which is 81% of project costs, is 36%, and on the road component 37%. The
weighted average IERR for the two components which account for 95% of project
costs is estimated to be 36%. The cost of investment and operation of the EPZ
is calculated at border prices and economic wages. Benefits considered in the
IERR calculation include the direct return on EPZ investment as well as the
tax payments by the firms to Colombia and the benefits of increased employment
induced by the EPZ investment. The investment and returns of predominantly
foreign firms in the EPZ were not included in the analysis since it is expected
that a large portion of the investments would be incremental foreign capital
with no opportunity cost.  The return on the private firms' investments is
expected to be adequate to justify their investments. Income tax revenues are
computed conservatively by applying the 40% tax rate to only one-half of the
projected profits which are based on existing profit rates for manufacturing
firms in Colombia with foreign participation. Employment benefits calculated
for the estimated 6,000 new jobs created in the zone are the expected wage bill
less the opportunity cost conservatively assumed to be 75% of the estimated
wage bill. Rental benefits are the revenues received by ZFIC, which are to be
priced to yield a minimum 10% rate of return.
56.       The IERR for the road component is estimated to be 37%, based on
current traffic volumes for other users, a 35% volume increase resulting
solely from EPZ use and vehicle operating costs as estimated by MOPT. The
IERR corresponds closely to the rates calculated for similar works in Colombia.
Although the IERR could not be calculated for the remaining 5% of project costs,
the benefits of the vocatiLonal training expenditure on worker productivity and
improved operational maintenance of production facilities clearly outweigh
the relatively low cost of that component, while the water supply component,
essential for the EPZ, would also benefit other industries in the area and
would provide the financial basis to subsidize low income users in Cartagena.
57.       Increased worldwide protectionism combined with a proliferation of
EPZs on a world or region;al scale could cause an oversupply of EPZ facilities.
With its comparative advantages mentioned above, however, the Cartagena EPZ
should be able to compete effectively with other zones even if demand for
space in EPZs is low. Under such circumstances though, ZFIC would relax some
of its selection criteria for industries seeking entrance into the zone (see
paragraph 39). In any case, the project would still achieve its intended
objectives and maintain an acceptable return.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ZFIC, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 18 -
59.       Special conditions of the loan and for effectiveness are listed
in Section III of Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) ZFIC's Board of Directors has approved a statement of operating
policies and procedures and a detailed plan of action for
carrying out a promotion campaign for attracting export
oriented industries to the Zone, both satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 7.01(b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement).
(b) Subsidiary agreements satisfactory to the Bank between ZFIC and
the Municipality of Cartagena and ZFIC and EPMC have been
signed and delivered to the Bank (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan
Agreement).
(c) ZFIC has appointed a project engineer, accountant and industrial
promoter, all of whom have qualifications, terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 7.01(d) of the Loan Agreement).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 31, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
COLOM8IA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   ---------------------------__      -----     ---------
--------------^                                   COLOMBIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1138.9                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      224.8                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE            TURKEY          BRAZIL         MEXICdC*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      210.0       350.0     640.0                500.0       550.0       690.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             15.4       20.6       24.2                 35.6        92.8        50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         14.0       18.0       21.0                46.0         11.0        26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          11.0       93.0      108.0                65.0         49.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           416.1      44.3       40,6                40.6         36.4        43.9
CRUDE nEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            14.7       11.0        8.8                 14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         IW0.0/a    70.0 /a       .               153.0/a    110.0          68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         54.7 -    58.5        60.9                .4 4-       59.4         62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2        3.2        3.1                  2.6/b,c    2.6          3.1
POPULATION GROWtH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   2.9        2:/.9      2 :,8                2.5         2.9         3.5
URBAN                                   6.0 /b     5 5/       4.9                 4.9/d        5.0         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            t3.0/C    60.3        70.0/a               36.7        56.0        58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         46.6/C    46.6        44.1                41.7        42.0         46.2
15 To 64 YEARS                         SiO,4/E    50.4       52.7                54.0        55.0         50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                       3.0/rC    3.0         3.2                 4.3          3.0         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      t.O/C        .0       0.9                  0.9         0.8         1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8/c    1'6/c    '16/b                    I-1/e       1.5         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOPS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            0.5      306.9      955.1                   ,,      25o00         55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ,.         ..       31.0                 8.2          1,6
EMPLDYMENT
TOTAL LABOR rORCE (THOUSAND)           51DO.O/c  6200.0    6800.0              14000.0/f  29400.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRIC:LTURE (X)           47.0 /     39.0          , .               63.4 -      40.4        450
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             8*0/Fd,    7.0       10.2/c               11.9/e       7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOU5EHOLDS              41 .2/c f 31 9/d    27.2                  32.8 /h    35 0/a        27.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              67.7 /W1  60:1 /      54.4                60.6 /h    62.0/a        86 .3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               23t/c f3-             5.2                 2.9 /        3     
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               6.8       10.1          934                               /a      10.5
lC,f   Ia    14.3                                   a 0.~
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..          ..      80.0                 39.0 /i    45.0         37.1
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS              ..        ..        0.2                  0.7 '       1.5          0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITIQN
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               2400.0    2110.0    2100.0/d              2250.0       1910.0      1480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          3520.0/         .,    1450.0/             1770.0 /i  3220.0/b   1620.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             580.0      430.0      470.0                500.0       260.0 -    9860.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -                              92.0       94.0                112.0       109.0       105.0
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           94.0       920         4.10                          190         100
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                50.0       51.0       47.0                78.0         64.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0/h    29.0/e    24.0                   22.0 /k    39.0          28.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              16.3        8.4                            14.7 /1        . .        9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         77.0       98.0      105.0                109.0        87.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       12.0       23.0       36.0                 28.0          ,,        22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEV L)               11.0       11.0       11.0                 11.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                       3to/i    21.0         17.0,                14.0        17.0        24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                     ..      73.0        74.0/_              55.0 /Tn    64.0         76.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    ..         ..         ..                 1.9          1.0         2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATE- (Y)                        59. 0/C      .                             66.0        73.0/c       61.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   47.0/c       ..          ..                40.0        48.0        59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      8.0/c       ..          ..                18.0         8.0        28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          139.0      105.0       117.0                89.0        60.0        276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             7.0        11.0       15.0                 4.0        25.0         24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            244.0/e   414.0        599.0               247.0       491.0        567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 2.4         2.7        2.1                 0.7          2.7         3.2
SEE NOTES ANO DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
[NOTES
L.:nleo  therwise ..ted. data for 1960 refer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961. for 1970 between 1969 and 1971. and for Moat Recent gatiinte betwedn
97 1n 176.
5  *ffjoll o.tinatoa based on regi.teratione. ohou  trod. birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average etude birth rate for 1961-70 a. 36.0 and for 1971-76
31.0.
~roloh- been. eaatd as an ob7ective country because Colombia is now in the stage of econosic development that Masico sa  in tan years azo.
bo6cutieolat aGflP growth rate of sbout 7 percent and at a substantial reduction of uneployment.
IOLCSIA       196C      /   Registered only;    /b  1951-64;         /   1964;    Id  Rogota only;    I.  1963;    If  Economically -eti-e population;
Ij  1965;    /h  1961-63;    /Ij  Total ... ndary includes t.schbr training at the third level;    /I  Water piped i.aid..
970     /acgae b*.od on buria1 pareits;    lb  1964-70;    IC  Ratio of poPulatio.nuoder 15 and 65 sod over to total labor force;
Id  El=omoioally ective pop.latios;        /a  1964-66.
MOO~T RECENTr ESTIMATE      /a1977;    lb  Ratio of pop.latioo under 15 and 65 and oven to total 1abor force;    It~ March 1977. avrage
unemployment rate in se-en largest ctites;    Id  1972.
IRKEwY        1970    /a  1967:    /b  Esolude 17 .&atoro provin... ;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;               1.  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and
over to labor 15 years end over;    If  15 yearis and "ove, excind*v employed;    IjL Registered  only;    /h  Disposable
.ocone;    Id  Agricultural land, ignoring Iandleas honeeholds;    /I   tnmluding assistant nuraea aod aidwivee;
/k 1964-64; /I 1967-68; /ts Parmaonsiel years and near who tall the cm...e takare that they can raad and write.,
BfAZIL        1970    /a  EconomicallY active population;    /b  Hinepita1 personnel;    /c  Ineida only.
'~fIfCC       1974    /a  1o-luding sassistant nrote.;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Inside only.
0.13. Ray 6, 1978
pgFgrOOI5m or SocIA  TRDICA7m
on~~ co.,jyr.~~~~i                                                 Poaniation  ont n~~fl uralI  t.":   Popoltion divided by, umaberofrcntc
Toco;   T-ci1 surface area  -prisng 1usd eros ad  .l.ed waters,                                   slanfoagrduate   -.e, 'trained' or 'certified"  --m. .nd
Sf4. -Mnt mc-i est lots nf agricultural area  eed temporarily or peena-                      aunlliory personne  with trainieg or enperinc.
colyfo  .rpa, poetorea, market b kitchen gardns or to lie fallow.                       Foonlation PI, hoapital bed - Poplation divided by .,ab.c of hoapin,l lbode
avilable in pulC and private general sod sp- 1a1ioed hospital o-d
C?oocut   Uss  -CNP par .. pita estimates at currant marbat prices,                      rehabilitation centera; seclde. nursin  homes aod aetcbih --lao     for
oalco-totd by tn  ccr 10nthod as World Book Atlas (1974-76 heels);                              c,atsdial and prev-tiveoas
1960; 1910 and 1976 d.t-,                                                                     Par capita -pply of nsloriaa, (1 of reg.ireneota) - Ceepoted from  c-rgy
.quivalsvt of net food sappliea available in onuntry par ca pita Per day;
pop_jatio_  sod vital etotietlo                                                                   avilable supplies comprise d-setic p-du-tion, iaports le.. -nports, and
:porolatloc  (mid-year  Ialllc  - Aa of JulY first:  if not available, average                  changes in stock; set .upplies anclde  fnhalred, oseda, qu-tftiosos-d
of c_o odni-yr -otcla.tn; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                             in food prces.iog aed lessee in diatribotion; requiremente were etloarod
by FAO base d a physiologloal needs for normal activity and he.lthb Ooeid-
Pooloticj  de-ity  -par autare  64 - mid-year population par square kilometer                     ariog envirotale temperature, body -nights, age and sen diet,ibu,tioe  of
(10f) hec-aroa  of total area.                                                                  popul.tioo, od allowing 10% for waste'at hoaahold level.
norolrinodeonty  -per  user  k.  ef s ,land - Computed as above for                      Per caina  ane, of a         i   far_m  erdy) - Prersie   aa  to   Prrceita
arircl rorol leod only.                                                 ne~~~~~~~t supply of feed per day; net supply of food is defined .  abov; r.q.iro-
6                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ments for all couentries eatabliahed by USDA E-cenic Research lo-lc-
Ilcal itoclotlos                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~provide for a minimu   1 .. loac  of 60 grema  of total protein per day,, -nd
vrdobId'rae   o  tb-taatd.  1vrs      Aul iiv  lirtita pr thouaa-d of                             20I grasa of aeimI sand pulse protein. of which 10 gcams should ho -a-In
rId-oorpoplaton;tee-year arithmaetl  averag esndieg in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; thee. standards ore losr than those of 75 groem  of total pr--it
and  lve~oat  verae eding in 1975 for mast re.can  estimate,                              and 23 grem    faia   rti   aa   vrgefrtewrd   rpedb   o
CrudeJ~ dea   rats P.c  hoean.d.  avrag  - 4000.1 deathe Par thousand of mid-year                in the Third World food Survy.
Jooltlncn-year a,tittC averages ending in 1960 sod 1970 and five                           e   siapoensnl   rmaimlado*e-poenspl   ffn
ovan n .orge ending       9 191  for most tenant estimate.                                      derived from  animals and puleca in grem  Per day.
Ictct noroiiy rte  /thu)    Ano-1 deaths of infants undar one year of age              Death rate (/th-u  axes 1-4 - Annual dssths per thousand is age group 1-..
po  t     t,u _ lvebiths.,                                                             years, to childre  in this age group; euggested as an indi.catr of
iff,  ,e funn-  at ~birth lye)-  vrage steber of Yeast  ef life rmnsinfng at                     malntrition
blch;oo _;ly fv-oraeae  ending 10 1960. 1970 ad 1975 for davslop-
log  cut- onaaAeaEduec.ion
.10000     .... r,dte -       ger: ounhr nf live deaghtera a w-man will hear                Adluated enrollment ra,tio;              c rmayahoo  - Enro1lmast of all agee as pot-
10 hr nooalreprducive   erid iiohscopeiencs pesen  eg-epaifi       cenagaof pimay  Jcto-g    ouat ion; Include. Children eg.d 6-11 -crr
forhitfyrafo - oua1y fiv-year avreee ding Is 1960, 1971 ad 1975                            but adjutsd for dtfferent lengths of Primary eden-rlon  for  -onb-i-e olrh
bc dooviophog cnnntrleS.                                                on~~~~~~.ivarsal education, orollment may emce ed 100% since .-u poplls are be;o
ap2lontvn grouth  rate  (.    total - Compoud annual growth rates of mid-year                     er above th.  fin   school age.
ppat10for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.i                                               Adiust.d enrollment ratio - secondary  school - Computed as above; CecoodatO
kouolngothrc   %      ran-Cmue   6   growth rats of total                                   education requlrea at leaSt four years of  pproved prisary int-tror.o;
yooltio  dff--et definitioa  furban  r.se  may affect nampsrabllity of                   provides gs -rvctional or teachebr traLinig inatruct.n. for pupile
data uoono ccoccriea.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~of 12 to 17 ysar  of age; oorrapoodasI corses  rar  generally aceloded.
Urbo  ppultio  )7 oftotal) - RatIo of teb-  to total popolation ; difforant              Ser   fsho  n   rvddflitadaem  levels __                        otlpreo
defleiti-tn  of urban areas may affect comparability of data among coontrie..                   schooling; at  se..edagy level, voctional inatruction, may be partially or
All:  atructr   (prmtl - Chlld-e  (0-14 yeasm), mgrkinag-ee (1S-44 yearn),                      vacatiemel  emrmiasegp  feeeda               Vocational iaatitwtioma  ina inda
ae   eie   (5ysaad   evr)  spreentgage  ef mid-year Pemletiom.                                 tanel   nutilo   te   rg                      Rc   prr   needsl   rC
Aic   epsdeoy  rtio- Ra tio of population under 15 and 65 and  -vr to th..e                 daparsto.t  of a-gomdary inatitationc.
of  goa15  brOgh64.                                                                     Adult lit*rACy  rato  (11 - Literate  4.1ota  (able to read sed -ite) an per-
Economic  doentoo   rci  - Ratio of population under 11 and 63 and ovr to                         ceotaga of Ctota  adult populaciom  agd 15 yoar- ad ano.
rho ;u-o force in age group of 15-64 years.
"I...olucin   - sc-eetr. t -eultive, thou) - Cumonlativa nibar of accptors                  Hlousing
or birth-control device  under ...spiea of estina1 femily pl.wnnig Progrem                   Persons eMr room  frbo.)   Av rag        -Mbr of persona psr room in occupiad
alc_  fnn-ption.                                                                                Cavantienal dyliogs 1n urban arenas; dweIliega seclude nn-prana-et
Fml    lnico  - uars   1ofmrriedwoe)- Perttages of married women of                        Vcruturas sod unoccupied per ta..                    idco~itldII
chlld.bcarln  aes (15-44 y s  who n cbith-control davicas to all married                       eelddslic vihs oodwar(1- Occupied                         cnanina wllings1tov
uaoIac age groop.                                                                       in orboo andrura Irsaswithoutinsids or outaids piped water fsciiitiac
aa ratag  ofall occupied dwslin.
ncloc,,nor                                                             e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.eoes   t  elsotrici1ty  ('1 of  ell duella=a  I- Covntoa  d"eltio  with
loa   lbr.frt  ithouIaand  - gEo-noitally 4ctive parsons, Including seined                 electricity in living quarters s  percent of toca1 dwellinga in urban and
forvaan  u',,Ploysd but seeluding honaa-ive, students, ste.; deinitions                     rural aes
in -rfo  cutriesare not oeparable.                                                     Rural dwellings comneeted to  eletricity  it) - Compuced as abve for rural
Labor forte  in  grit-ltm__(7. -tAgrioalt1tral lebor force (Is farming, forestrY,                 dwellings only.
hurting end fishing) aS. Percetage o  ttal labor force.
Irnonolyrd  (7. of leben  force)   Unfemployed are  amally dafi-d as perseawh   ons                 omptio
r   bio and tilling to take   Job,  nt of a Job on a give  day, remanind sot               Rai(rci or er th- op)ss - All typna of r-civere far radio broadcas ts
ofa   h. end .nching work for a specified minimums period Mat .....dLug set.o gn Irlpoblieiper thou...nd of population; secludes coicndr recivers
ovk:m; o   hecoparable hatwas  countriea due to different dWI.altiO                     inCoctorisa and in years when ragitratfon f radio sets wa  in affect;
of~ .neoployrad cd ue   fdaa   ..  employment office stAtiatica, semPls                         data for races.t yeare nay not be oomparahe  ine1 oa  co.tria  boliahad
Y.,    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~paagr   asfa   hso  pop) - P ....nger nara  -cmpIs  corer cars aeatiog
burdlo-rib,,tio -P.r-tong. of private income (both in .oha and kind)                          leata   ight pesona  soclodes emhbloscao, hosrec  and nLliat.y
--coloo  by riobeat 1%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, end poores 401 of honse-                      vsbolc.'
holds.                                                             flacenle~~~~~~~~~~~~~ity /yblr per  teal - An.. Ius  c-epti-  of industrial, cril
public an.d private elecicity In hibownt hnare par capita, goo-ray
Dlstihohoc   oIlad  owcr.hip- Perc...t.gss of l1nd sinnd by waelthi..t 10%                   bae   npouto   aa    ihu   loae   o    ae   ogids hut allo-
-ud po..r.a t 10% of land Oscrs.                                                               ingfor i=pr   ad  sperta  fastiiy
Nessrfot  (k/r          spr e) - percpit.a  .Aloc  conouptio  is kilogrems
_cL.Ih andGftritcioc                                                                              eatinated from  domestic production plaa Oct inporro of osuaprint.
b,roa   In  o;  oyalias- Ppulation divided by numa- of P-arici.a
rhsoab        ulfedfo   mad-Ina  school at omivarscY loval.



Page 3 of 4 pages.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(In millions of US dollars)
-tul                       E               - tiaatsd  Pro..sntad       Aoa      n A-nail Groth &at..          As Prcast of GDP
1967- 69
Average    1974        1975        1976        1977        1978         1982         (1967-69 L-74   197577   1978-82       1974       1977       1992
NATIO7AL ACCOUNTS                                       1976 Prics  asd Exchange Rates
Gross So. atic Product                   9,785     14,262      14.893      15,565     16,406        17,406      22.079             6.5           5.0        6.1     100.0      100.0     100.0
Gains fro-  Te-t of Trade f+)            -731        -403        -455        -           608           264        .102              -             -         -         2.8        3.7       0.5
Gross lomsestic Incore                     fl      13.899      14.3       f556        1rMT          17,670      22,181             7,4          t5.                  97.       17 T2
Irport (TonI. NFS)                      1,491       2,306       2,152       2,318      2,939         3,365       4,496             7.5          16.9       7.5       16.2       17.9      20.4
Ueott   "      Goor  C.encicy)        1.419       2.066      2,,297       2.892      3 3071        3.199      4.237             6.3          23.5        7.3       14,5       21.3      19.2
Resource  Gap                               72        240        -145        -574        _             166         2359            6-                       -         1.7       21.3       1.2
Consumption ERpsnditures                7,445      10,877      11,663      11,812     12,955        13,816      17,223             6.5           5.4       5.7       76.3       79.0       78.0
Investment      "    (Inc. Storks)    1,661         3,222       2,630       3,179      3,497         4,020       5,217           11.7           15.3       6.7       22.6       21.3      23.6
Do-estio S-vingu                        1,589       2,982       2,775       3,753      4,059         3,854      4,958            11.1           20.9       6.5       20.9       24.7      22.5
National Savings                        1,865       2,834       2,544       3,531      3,969         3.742       4,776             7.2          24.9       6.3       19.9       24.2      21.6
IRCHANDISE TflADE                                        AnnLl-1 Dat. at Cvrrent Pricer.                                                                                As Percent of Total
Inaporto
Capital Goods                           290         525         510         575        724           895      1,455            10.4          19.1       12.9       34.7      30.5       27.5
Itcermediste Goods (EBat. Fuels)        254         813         705         803      1,193         1,475      2,481            21.4          30.0       13.8       53.8      50.3       46.9
Fuels aud Rnlaced lateritlc                3          6          14          73        153          189         766            12.3            -        41.8        0.4       6.4       14.5
of l'hich:  Pectol--                  (-)         (-)         (14)        (73)      (153)        (189)       (766)             -             -       (41.8)       (-)      (6.4)    (14.5)
Cossuaiption Goodo                       61         167         166         214        304          376         591            18.3          35.3       12.0      11.1       12.8       11.2
Total Me-chundiso Gaporte (POB)         608       1,511       1,395      1,665       2,374          3         5,293            16.4  30.5               15.9     Too00      100 0      Too o
Exporc t 
Prtiary Products (EInl. Fu-1)           418       1,001       1,202      1,776       2,484        2,490       3,971            15.7          43.8       12.4      67.0       80.2       74.9
of which:  Coffon                    (341)       (662)       (672)    (1,316)     (1,753)      (1,360)    (1,431)           (11.7)     , (61.5)  ,  (1.3)         -       (56.6)        -
Fuels and Related Motorists               71         95          87          87          93           90        173             5.0           3.4       17.7        6.4      -3.0        3,3
of witch:  Ieccoleur                  (56)         (4)        (_)         (-)         (-)          (-)        (-)              -             -          -       (0.3)       (-)        (-)
Maeofatcured Goods                      117         398         428         515         320         458       1,160            22.5          10.2       26.1      26.4       16.8       21.0
TLotal Mrchandiso EIports (FOB)         606       1,494       1.717       2,378       3,097       3,038       5,304            16.2          34.3      I7C       Too5o      100.0      100.0
M-erchandice Trado Idicoc
Eoport Price Iden                     21.2        72.4        74.5      100.0        136.6       129.8       160.0
I.nprt Price linden                    34.0        90.0        93.0      100.0        107.7       116,3       154.9
Ternn of Tr-dc Icden                   62.3        80.4        BO.1      100.0        126.8       111.6       103.3
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (Factor Coat)           Annual lDsts at 1976 - Prices and E-shesge Rates                                  Avorane Annual Growth Motes             As Peccent of Total
Agrtciltur-                           2,951       3,939       4.191      4,244       4,328        4,458       5,017             4.9           1.7        3.0      29.7       28.4       24.7
Todustry and Hining                   2,444       4,013      4,087       4,210       4,505        4,823       6,299             8.6           5.0        6,9      30.3       29.5      31.0
Sev-ice                               4,439       5,305       5,641      6,028       6,425        6._64       8,997             3.0           6,7        7.0      40.0       42,1       44.3
Total                                 9,834      13,257     13,909      14,482      15,258       16,143      20,313             5.1           4,7        5.9     100.0      100.0     100.0
PUB.IC  PFINANCE                                        An-usi Dat at Csrrsnt Prices                                                                                     As Percent of GDP
(Contral GotermnoetS
Curreot Rnoetpru                      413       1,194      1,402       1,589       2,018        2,220      3,308            19.4          20.0       10.5        9.5      10.0        9.3
Current Expocdit-ros                  262         640         702        821         919          999      1.637            16.0          14-4       13.1        5.1       4.5        4.6
Budgetary S-ings                      151         554         700        7         1,           1,221      1,671             24.2         25.3        8.2        4.4       5         4.7
Other Phblic Sector Savinge           434         150         394        334         418          481        925           -16.2           3.0       17.8        1.2       2.1        2.6
P.blic Sector Investment              612       1,189      1,382       1,496       1,550        1,975 1 3,453                11.7          5.9       15.0        9.4       7.7        9.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                                          L965-70    1974-7?    1978-82                         DETAIL ON PURLIC SECTOk                     As 2 of Total
iNV7E8TMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING       Actual       Planned
(Avorage for PerIod Shorn)                                                                                                                                1975376      1977-82
Average IC0R (Based on Pined I-voscne-t)                   3.17        3.77        3.36
Ieport Elusticity                                          1.16        1.83       1.25                         Sotial Settors                            33.5         38.2
Msrginsl Dlceutic Savings Ante                             0.20        0.34        0.24                        Agri-lturs                                10.2         12.0
Marginal National Savings late                             0.14        0.35       0.23                         Industry and Mining                        9.5          9.7
Power                                     6.5          9.5
Transport andJ C-isco tic-lc             20.2         14.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER B                              otal labor Forte                                   ocher                                    20.1         15.0
Io Millions             7, of Total         Growth Race                 Total Etpeuditures                      100.0        100.0
1964       1973         1964        1973        1964-73
Agric-lt-ure                        2.427       2.057        47.3        30.2          -1.9                    FINANCING
Industry                            0.958       1.212        18.7        17.8           2.7
Service                             1.749       3.542        34.0        52.0           8.2                    Pablic Sector Sa-ings                     62.7         69.5
Ttol1                               5.134       6.812       100.0       100.0           3.2                    Internal Sourcas                          15.1         24.6
Gther                                    22.2          6.9
Value Added ner Worker (1976 Prices and E-change Rates)                   Total Fiancing                          100.0        100.0
In US .iLlars           7 of Ase.a.e         Growth Sate
1964       1973         1964        1973        1964-73
Agriculture                           903       1,517         66.4       88.4           5.9
Industry                            1,837       2,552       135.2       148.6           3.7
Servic-                             1,730       1,546       127.3        90.0          -1.2
Ton-l                               1,359       1,717       Too o       100.0           2.6



PaRe 4 vf 4rae
(A-..,. teB  million   of TS dotla1t1 .r-         s
1971           972'         1971           1974          1971            1976           755            1970         1I7             I980          199           1980
S0UMVR3 BALANCE OP PAYM8ENTS
Tenoote  (lent. Mrs)                            972         iO205          1.544         1,861          2,137          2,892           3.711         3,729         4.301          4,903         5.687          t,563
FSot   lot   el                     1.285          1.232         1.422          2.077         2.002          2.318           3.165         3.913          4  )5         5262           6 054            5.
Be..oorna Eaanr   70-8)                        -313            -2 7          122          -216            135             574            544          -193           -250          -359           -3S5          -401
Fanror  ervt...                                -189)         -191)          -223          -173           -243           -293            -208          -256           -331          -386           -426          -468
ProfIt.                          7-71)         (-70)          (-79)~~7      (-55)         (-68)           (-73)         (-100)         (-117)        (-137)         (-164)        (-172)         (-181)
Othar                            ~~~~~ ~ ~~~                ~~(-98  I-2  (-133  (-IE      (-1785)         (-220)         (-109)         (-139)        (-194)        7-222)         (-254         (-287)
)NT.           I,Tr4eefaCINQ  t                   28            28             28            39            28              71            112            125           138            150           1467           I"e
NaleEaeErratnBBAea-180                                                      -5           -5 0                            32                          -124          -43             59-68                       -9
PriIvat  Drec   Tno-teet                         40             17            23             35            35              49             32             39            57             67            74            03
Obt,Bc M&,5Loam
llaboree-te                                   222            3 54          412           382            383            230             2 7)          480           401            '83           045            941
-Raeay-.et.                                    -92           -98           -132          -211           -134           -130            -161         .s195           -215          -2 5)          -295          -33
Nat Dtahbn--nt                                130           258            280           169            249            Tro_7                        285            386           578            554           602
NIelt=raeet                                   145           139             60            50             76             2              -             -              -             -             -              -
-Baeav.eela                        .~~     ~     ~~~      ~     ~~~79  -NA  389  -58          87           -8               ------
Nat Diaburea-aet                               66             55             2            -8            -11      ~     71            -r----
C.pItaI Tramea..nti...  -.i.                     216            39           -78             63           -98             176            t0o-,-                                                      
Changei It Ia   aeRvee.                            2          -179          -172             91           -95            -634            -604-86                                                      
GEAtE  AND0 LOAMB ODIER0EeeS                                                                                                                                                                             -Ant.aI
Offlntal Gra-. & Orn-lI1ke .                               -                         -              -                                 DEBT  -  ItBEET tr-1tE                   1971         1'l0          1973         1974         0575           1974
Public  lILT Loan.                                                                                                                       AteEtni_g & Mbielr-d                 1,38).6      1,850.0      1,936.0      2,117.4      2,351.2        2,449.2
lIED                                          153             74           162              8            Nt              NO           IttretI     t P.blic Dolt                49.2         57.9         78.5        103.7        113.5          123.4
1I1                                           -              -             -             -              -              -              R.pa     -  enta  Ott                    92.0          5.         131.9        211.4         134.7         258).0
Othe  laI   aea                                 42            41            29             64           -                62           Too    ulnBl   eIe                      141.2        25.          210.4        316.1         2482          275.4
Emoeresesta                       ~~~~          ~~~             ~~~110  14 67  15            65             1 32          Ethr  eb  SevIe   ne)1331                            155.1         2.I1.                      0.            6.
Sogeller.                          ~~~           ~~~           ~~~            ~~35  37  31  45  74          4dt           ToBa1 Debt berIc    net                 274.3        381.9        337. 0       433.7         396.2         435 4
PrsaaEaoa                                       8             NA           10              SB           163            170
B-mOa                                                       -               45           -              -              -            Btcdenon -CEgpnr  Earing.()
Ptoblil  1-011  net.-8                                                       1              4             1            -
Tonal Pbllin  lIarLAT                            370           359            535           234            360            49             vbllc  Dolt Se-i-                       14.5         B2O7         03.6         16.3         11.,            9.5
TotalI Debt Saroite                     26.2          25.6         21.8         23.3         16.7           15.1
Forign  lt-aet. Ivr.ee                35.3         31.1         26.5          26.6         15.5          17.6
tEXTERNLI PUBLIC  MET                            On t-atdin-o  12)31/76
)Epyablle In Porelgt  Cvrrttn)              Diebor-d gnlv                Pennant                                                        Average Term   of  (bl)   Dolt
World Earl                                      671.6                    27.4
IDA                                 ~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~                                                                     ~~22.3  0.9  Iveeta7 PrIo   Y-a  9(4D  3.)  4 .2        4.0          5. 3          5.4           5.3
otler tIt  otr8 3.4                                                       6.5                                                            Ocoteo  o    . 1 Print Year
G.vrmerte33.6                                                            38.2                                                              D04                                     1.4          6.9          8.0         10.5           t.4           6.4
Private  Banks                      39~~~~~~~'5.2            161                                                           lOR   Doht Obt.il 4 Nletreed             390           4534         (04.         tE           633.5          171.6
lnnde                               1~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~0.4  2.1                                            1R1  e       '.ubIc  DoS  01               20.          2).          261           2.           26.            274
ublIct Dbhte ve.i                                32.3                     1.3                                                         IBR5 ma 75                 Sevle            94           30.          28 9         23.4          32.3          25 8
DTal Pbftti  974,7Tot                        2,449.2                    100.2                                                         IDA Dolt 0,t. & nared                       13.4         20.9         23.0         22.           22.)          22.3
TDAO  7 Pubtit  ~.hb  7D0i                  1.4          1 . 3        1.           1.1           5.            09
tDdga~~~~~~~"  ~Sertce                  2          0.           0.I                                     2 0



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                              Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and cred:Lts                                718.8      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads              32.0               3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 52.3                .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply        2.0                .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               16.1
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation          2.2               1.5
860     1972  Instituto de Fom,ento
Municipal                      Water Supply        9.1               3.5
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0              16.5
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial
Credit          60.0               2.2
920     1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2              12.3
926     1973  Ferrocarriles NaLcionales         Railways           25.0                .8
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               4.7
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Credit 5.5                  .4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0               21.0
1073    1975  Empresa Naciona:L de
Telecomunicac:Lones            Communications   15.0                 2.3
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                13.2
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture        21.0              19.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial
Credit          80.0              47.9
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.         52.0              50.8
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                64.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0                60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial
Credit          15.0              15.0
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways           90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition          25.0              25.0
TOTAL                                            1,548.6     23.5
Of which has been repaid                           354.1       1.5
Total now outstanding                           1,194.5      22.0
Amount sold                          48.8
Of which has been repaid             19.8           29.0
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                   1,165.5      22.2
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                    471.4
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                   Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board      0.50       -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans       0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Rogar, S.A.                    Home furniture  0.08   0.09         0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment     0.50       -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing      1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock        1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism             -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.43       0.43
Valle                            financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism          0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism          0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing             -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement           1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement           3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining           6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material      2.43       -      2.43
Total Gross Commitments                          40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           26.56   8.14      34.70
Total commitments now held by IFC                13.75   5.21      18.96
Total undisbursed                                  -      0.03      0.03



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, six
sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about 190 km
of paving. Project complet:ion is now expected for end-1979. The other compon-
ents of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works is seeking ways of hastening project execution and strengthening the
performance of contractors..
2.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - June 30, 1978
The project was completed and commercially operational in mid-1977,
two years behind schedule, with a cost overrun of about US$86 million (65%).
The delay is mainly attributable to geological problems encountered during
construction of the dam and tunnel. The cost overruns resulted from these
geological problems, from higher than anticipated bids, and local and foreign
inflation.
3.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of June 30, 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Adequate tariff measures recently adopted will enable the utility to utilize
the remainder of the loan proceeds in further works, as originally contemplated.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
4.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
Disbursements up to February 28, 1978, amounted to nearly 80% of this
loan. Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel
is the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily.
5.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. A second
contractor has defaulted and work on the main drainage canal has temporarily
stopped, though a new contract is expected to be signed soon. Settlement of
farmers within the project areas and the provision of technical assistance
and farm credit have been making inadequate progress. The Government is
carrying out a detailed review of the project in order to find a solution
to these problems.
6.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of February 28, 1978, about 60% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved.
7.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir will be started by mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost of the works at El Penol
and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious financial problems but recently
adopted tariff increases should allow it to overcome them.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
8.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are expected to
be completed within the next few months.
9.  Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
The execution of t:he project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered delays as a result of inadequate budgetary resources of
the Government. The Government is preparing a proposal to cancel a large
portion of the Loan.
10. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1976
current - June 30, 1978
Declines in freight traffic in 1975 and the first six months of
1976 (because of an economicz slowdown and lower imports), combined with steep
cost increases, resulted in a deterioration of the railway's financial situa-
tion. Since then, the financial position of the railway has been improving as
a consequence of sharp increases of ton-km of freight traffic, and freight
tariff hikes of about 19% in 1976 and 50% in 1977. Improvements have been
registered in other areas although locomotive availability is severely con-
strained largely because of manufacturer defects in over 40% of 88 relatively
new locomotives. Efforts are underway to resolve this problem but early
resolution is not anticipated. Project works are progressing and a substantial
portion has been completed.
11. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Commitments are proceeding at a satisfactory rate. The Bank has
approved 26 sub-projects.
12. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next f'ew months.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
13. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities.
14. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily.
15. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date:  April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Projection execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flaws.
16. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule.
17. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
18. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Works are now proceeding as scheduled.
19. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
The loan is being committed faster than anticipated. Withdrawal
applications for US$3.1 million equivalent have recently been received.
20.  Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
Works are proceeding as scheduled.
21. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
Start up has been delayed as a result of recent changes in
management.
22. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Rehabilitation Program is underway, about three months behind
schedule. Stabilization works are being carried out, with work totalling
US$35.4 million completecd; conditions for disbursement of loan funds for
this program are expected to be fulfilled shortly. Implementation of the
maintenance program is in process, about six months behind schedule. Prepara-
tion of studies is proceeding satisfactorily.
23. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Works are proceeding rapidly and coordination among institutions
is effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
CARTAGENA INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                   Three years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                   ZFIC
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                  June of 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:                 July of 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                  January of 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                      May of 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                   October of 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
1.        Assurances were obtained that:
(a) ZFIC would prepare an updated promotion plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, every six months (paragraph 42).
(b) Arrangements would be made, satisfactory to the Bank, that would
ensure prompt and adequate supply of water, power and transport
and telecommunications facilities by the respective municipal
entities (paragraph 43).
(c) Capital expenditure for any building construction would be
subject to Bank approval of the design and construction schedule
for such building (paragraph 48).
(d) Rentals in all Colombian free zones would be set at levels that
would recover the full costs of their investments and generate
funds to cover a major portion of future investment costs
(paragraph 49).
(e) The Government would provide ZFIC with bridge financing totalling
US$3.0 million equivalent in 1979 and 1980 (paragraph 50).
(f) ZFIC would maintain a debt equity ratio no greater than 65:35
(paragraph 50).
(g) Beginning 1981, ZFIC would maintain a liquidity ratio of not less
than 1.25 to 1 (paragraph 50).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(h) ZFIC would obtain Bank concurrence before undertaking any
capital expenditure not a part of the project which would
result in an aggregate of such expenditures exceeding
US$150,000 in any year (paragraph 50).
(i) ZFIC's accounts would be audited by an independent audit firm
acceptable to the Bank and in a form acceptable to the Bank
(paragraph 50).
(j) The investment costs of road construction would be recovered
from the industries and landowners along the road according
to a system of valorization charges specified in the relevant
subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 52).
2.        Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) ZFIC's Board of Directors has approved a policy statement and a
promotion plan, both acceptable to the Bank (paragraphs 39, 42,
and 59).
(b) Subsidiary agreements between ZFIC and (i) EPMC and (ii) the
Municipality of Cartagena have been signed and delivered
(paragraphs 40 and 59).
(c) ZFIC has appointed a project engineer, accountant and industrial
promoter with terms, conditions and qualifications satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraphs 38 and 59).






INDUSTRI   XORT PROCESSING ZONE                                                     C74*een See
4                          ~~~~~~~~~~2 
j     Cole.<l boundoryOS  . ,                                                     <>                                                             Voc4tusft \   \ .COLOMBIA  r 
Proec fcifFsSfistsects         "-    -                                                                  1       Cc' Co:K ;   t A > > <     Dte  tgZosne
C1            )rim   )c f                                                                                                                          k-                   C t  f       m 0i;4    fts   
i ; " :\/                                                                                                                                  s_ /-i-b u, rd,ECUA '  
7/4-ny~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cc  jr1                                                 bn-Boo           -     ~~ .' .. r: ;' X
II  :                :                     0               ;    0   r      >          s      X               et AI#IFP,YC\I
<,   rc    AdsreC 2rrctrev                             f?vr
-- Prjc  (ondr   0      (XsoeetsonetLS
L1  roec lciitasf,rst stage    t--.                          )                  GAt                                   S..h-  Zone
G      e   0   lOB                                                                         0    ;    tC 200  300  400  .C P
talc ....BBA$
C  A                          71RR   BOE   ISAN Fo A /V    Sf           It,               ;00              z
7/'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:0 i                                                  <-  t-3             ::    0  0 t Cl5,0t - INotl  ea
CAAcIIF tAA        SPA                   -5'-     ' r                   0
--i                           .. X 0; r  <,5dffst , rTCrAn' X  0A to'-  i                                          A  
(I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI
I                                                          C~~~~~~~~~-S
A tsslorld    Swenn ps       :                                              :     ,-.  blood 
TIERRA  BOMBA  I5/AND                       "
'-Z"
/~~~~"                                --,i                                     cetopsssi'
I)    }                                                          9005             -    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMAS
C                ~~~COLOMBI[A                                        ofr
Cosogeno Indtrstriol Export Processing Zone Project                      ;5r
Jroject oad w_
<C--,                --~~--R-&s t. befisaroed bey 0-geeeero
2-ocx 'Scow      main acces oaer                                       MAMONAL                  n
cs8-B'oc                      oirop rea
a                  a     s~~2 
R        t5IPOSOETERS                                                       ' a -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ex
0             5                 2~~~.le
______________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



