CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1593 CO
Loan Agreement
(Cartagena Industrial Export
Processing Zone Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZONA FRANCA INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL DE CARTAGENA
Dated August 1, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1593 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 1. 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP ENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and ZONA FRANCA INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL DE CARTAGENA (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
Section 11.03. Action on Behalf of the Borrower or
Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement,
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor, may be taken
or executed by the representative of the Borrower or the
Guarantor designated in the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee
Agreement for the purposes of this Section or any person
thereunto authorized in writing by him. Any modification
or amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement
or the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of
the Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument executed
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor by the representa-
tive so designated or any person thereunto authorized in
writing by him; provided that such modification or amplifica-
tion is reasonable in the circumstances and will not substan-
tially increase the obligations of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement or of the Guarantor under the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Export Processing Zone" means the zone in the Mamonal
industrial area, about fifteen kilometers south of the city of
Cartagena, as defined in article 1 of Decreto No. 2411, dated
November 12, 1975, of the Guarantor;
(b) "Basic Laws" means Decreto No. 2077 of October 11,
1973, Decreto No. 2828 of December 23, 1974, Decreto No. 2411 of
November 12, 1975, of the Guarantor, establishing and organizing
the Borrower, and all other laws, decrees and regulations of the
Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction, related to
the organization or operations of the Borrower, as such Basic Laws
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Guidelines" means the statement of operating policies
and procedures of the Borrower referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement;
(d) "EPMC" means Empresas Pfiblicas Municipales de Cartagena;
(e) "SENA" means Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje;
(f) "CORELCA" means Corporaci6n El6ctrica de la Costa
Atlntica and such term shall include CORELCA's subsidiary,
Electrificadora de Bolivar;
(g) "TELECARTAGENA" means Compa?1a Telef6nica de Cartagena;
(h) "PROEXPO means Fondo de Promoci6n de Exportaciones;
(i) "Valorizaci6n" means any taxes, levies or contribu-
tions imposed on beneficiaries of public works for the recovery
from such beneficiaries of all or part of the investment costs of
such works; and
(j) "pesos" and "Col.$" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of inter-
est and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
substantially in accordance with an implementation schedule agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate economic, administra-
tive, financial, engineering, public utilities, educational,
technological, environmental and promotion practices, and shall
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose (the funds to be provided
by the Borrower, in addition to the proceeds of the Loan, being on
the date hereof estimated to aggregate the equivalent of not
less than sixteen million three hundred thousand dollars
($16,300,000)).
(b) For the carrying out of Part A (c) of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (i) prepare a detailed plan of action, satisfac-
tory to the Bank; and (ii) every six months update such plan of
action in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall enter into a contract, satisfactory
to the Bank, with EPMC for: (i) defining in detail the responsi-
bilities (including financial responsibilities), functions and
administrative procedures of the Borrower and EPMC, respectively,
in respect of the carrying out of Part B (a) of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall enter into a contract, satisfactory
to the Bank, with Municipio de Cartagena, for defining in detail
the responsibilities (including financial responsibilities),
functions and administrative procedures of the Borrower and
Municipio de Cartagena, respectively, in respect of the carrying
out of Part B (b) of the Project.
(e) The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1978, enter into a
contract satisfactory to the Bank with SENA for: (i) defining in
detail the responsibilities (including financial responsibili-
ties), functions and administrative procedures of the Borrower and
SENA, respectively, in respect of the carrying out of Part C of
the Project; and (ii) making available to SENA on terms and con-
ditions which shall be substantially the same as those contained
in this Agreement in respect of repayment of principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 5 -
(f) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
contracts referred to in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) above in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend,
abrogate or waive such contracts or any provision thereof.
(g) The Borrower shall enter into and maintain arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with CORELCA, TELECARTAGENA and PROEXPO
for defining the participation of CORELCA, TELECARTAGENA and
PROEXPO in respect of Part A of the Project.
(h) The Borrower shall not commit itself to, nor make, any
capital expenditure regarding the construction of any building
under Part A (a) of the Project and of any works under Part B (a)
and (b) of the Project unless the Bank shall have approved the
design and construction schedules of such building and works,
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Baak.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of' the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall (i) prepare, jointly with the
Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mice of the Guarantor, quarterly
reports on the progress of the Project; and (ii) furnish to the
Bank such reports promptly after their completion.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligation  under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
nf the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall employ such qualified and
experienced staff as shall be required for the efficient and
timely carrying out of the Project.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions in
paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall employ for the Project one


﻿-7-
industrial promoter, one engineer and one accountant, all of whom
shall have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
administrative, business and financial practices, under the super-
vision of experienced and competent management assisted by ade-
quate, experienced and competent staff and in accordance with the
provisions of this agreement, the Basic Laws and the Guidelines.
(b) The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportu-
nity to comment on any proposed reorganization of the Borrower
which may affect substantially or adversely the operations or
financial condition of the Borrower or the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action, including the
provision of funds and resources, to ensure that its facilities,
equipment and property are adequately operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking, including the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts a.
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i)
each montn, monthly cash flow projections for the following
twelve-month period; and (ii) every three months, quarterly cash
flow projections for the following three-year period.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain, at
all times, rental fees for the commercial and industrial enter-
prises located in its commercial zone and the Export Processing


﻿- 9 -
Zone at levels sufficient to enable the Borrower to generate a
real return of not less than 10% (or such other percentage as the
Bank shall agree) on the Borrower's investments in the Export
Processing Zone, such return to be calculated in accordance with a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall maintain a debt-equity ratio of not
more than 65:35;
(b) the Borrower shall not incur any debt if such debt will
raise the Borrower's debt-equity ratio above 65:35; and
(c) for purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) above:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower
including debt for the service of which the Bor-
rower is responsible, but excluding debt incurred
in connection with the carrying out of Parts B and
C of the Project;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date and to the extent
the amount of the Loan is drawn down and outstand-
ing pursuant to such contract, agreement or instru-
ment; -,ad (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date tne agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "equity" means the total paid-in capital,
reserves and retained earnings of the Borrower,
determined in accordance with sound accounting
practices; and
(iv) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, as from the year 1981, maintain a ratio of cur-
rent assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.25 to 1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "current assets" includes cash, accounts
receivable due within twelve months, prepaid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the next twelve months and
all other assets which could, in the ordinary course of business,
be converted within twelve months into cash; and
(b) the term "current liabilities" includes accounts
payable within twelve months, customer advances, taxes, bonuses
and all other liabilities (including debt) which will become due
and payable, or could be called for payment, within twelve months.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of
the Bank before committing itself to, or making, any capital
expenditure not included in the Project; except that no concur-
rence of the Bank shall be required in respect of capital expendi-
tures up to an aggregate annual amount net exceeding the equiva-
lent of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000).
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall: (i) include in the contract
to be entered into between the Borrower and Municipio de Cartagena
pursuant: to paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement such
provisions as shall be necessary to ensure that Municipio de
Cartagena shall charge and collect Valorizaci6n from the benefi-
ciaries of the works included in Part B (b) of the Project until
such time as all the investment costs of such works have been
recovered from such beneficiaries; and (ii) take all necessary
action to enforce such provisions.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall take, and cause to be taken,
all action, including the provision of funds and resources, to
ensure that the facilities and equipment included in the Project
are adequately operated, maintained, renewed and repaired.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall obtain, promptly as required
during the period 1979 through 1980, a peso loan in the equivalent
of three million dollars ($3,000,000), such loan to be on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any party to any contract entered into pursuant to
paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations
thereunder;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any party to any contract entered
into pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement will be able to perform any of its respective
obligations thereunder;
(c) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any entity participating in the carrying out of the
Project or for the suspension of its operations related to the
carrying out of the Project;
(d) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have divested any entity participating in the carrying out
of the Project of any of the functions or powers vested in it as
of the date of this Agreement so as to affect adversely the
efficient carrying out of the Project; and
(e) the Basic Laws or the Guidelines, or any provision
thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to
affect adversely the operations or financial condition of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the contracts referred to
in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b) the Junta Directiva of the Borrower has approved a
statement of operating policies and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank;
(c) the Junta Directiva of the Borrower has approved the
plan referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment; and
(d) the Borrower has appointed the industrial promoter, the
engineer and the accountant referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date December 5, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
Internauional Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Zona Franca Industrial y Comercial de Cartagena
Manga, Calle 29 No. 27-05
Apartado Aereo 1158
Cartagena, Colombia
Cable address:
ZONAFRANCA
Cartagena, Colombia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ZONA FRANCA INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL
DE CARTAGENA
By /s/ Virgilio Barco
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdraval of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of ftems to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Part A of the
Project
(a) Building con-            4,400,000        30%
struction (in-
cluding super-
visory ser-
vices related
thereto)
(b) Civil works              3,300,000        55%
(other than
building con-
struction) and
land prepara-
tion (includ-
ing supervi-
sory services
related thereto)
(c) Equipment (in-           1,500,000
cluding spare
parts thereto)
and materials
(i) Directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii) Locally                              80%
procured


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          Z of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(d)  Promotion ser-            200,000         100% of foreign
vices                                     expenditures
(2) Part B of the
Project
(a) Construction              2,100,000        50%
of Ceballos-
Pasacaballos
Road (including
supervisory ser-
vices related
thereto)
(b)  Construction               600,000        40%
of water trans-
mission main
(including
supervisory ser-
vices related
thereto)
(3) Part C of the
Project
(a) Building con-                40,000        35%
struction (in-
cluding super-
visory services
related thereto)
(b) Equipment (includ-          160,000
ing spare parts
thereto) and mate-
rials
(i) Directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii) Locally                              80%
procured


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(4) Interest and other            2,100,000       Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
February 28, 1982
(5) Unallocated                     600,000
TOTAL         15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures for land preparation before that
date but after February 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient


﻿- 17 -
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may: (i) at the request of the Borrower,
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, by notice to the
Borrower, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the development of the Export Processing
Zone, to service the needs of an estimated thirty export-
oriented industries. The Project consists of the following
parts:
Part A:   Export Processing Zone
(a) Development and operation of about 27 hectares of
industrial sites and related facilities, forming
the industrial zone proper, and of about 11 hec-
tares of land to locate the vocational training
center included in Part C of the Project and other
general and social services facilities. This
includes: (i) the construction of roads, surface
drainage canals, water distribution and sewage
collection networks, and of factory and other
buildings with an aggregate area of about 90,000
square meters, and related facilities; and (ii) the
installation of underground electric power lines,
telephone cables and telex terminals;
(b) Construction of a high-tension electric power
transmission line from the Cospique substation to
the Export Processing Zone; and
(c) Carrying out of a campaign, mainly international,
to promote the establishment of export-oriented
industries in the Export Processing Zone.
Part B:   Supporting Infrastructure
(a) Construction of a water transmission main from
the municipal water treatment plant at Cartagena to
the Export Processing Zone, a distance of about 12
kilometers; and
(b) Rehabilitation and widening of the Ceballos -
Pasacaballos road, about 14.6 kilometers long.


﻿- 19 -
Part C:   Vocational Training
Construction, furnishing and equipping of a vocational
training center in the Export Processing Zone with at
least 60 trainee places, adequate to provide training
opportunities for at least 200 workers annually.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1983
through   March 1, 1995                      575,000
On September 1, 1995                              625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                       6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
(including land preparation) shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on t.e basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For bidding purposes, goods to be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in such
manner as shall be agreed by the Bank prior to issuing the invi-
tation to bid.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 23 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less shall be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   Contracts for civil works (including land preparation)
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less shall be
procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   With the prior approval of the Bank, civil works (including
land preparation) under paragraph (a) of Part A of the Project may
be carried out by force account, provided the aggregate cost of
such works shall not exceed the equivalent of $400,000.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods mar"-,,ctured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of p-eference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Colombia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 24 -
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes or goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the decision of the Borrower, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts for: (i) civil works
(including land preparation) estimated to cost the equivalent of
$125,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $25,000 or more, before bids are invited, the Borrower shall


﻿- 25 -
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) With respect to all contracts for: (i) civil works
(including land preparation) estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more, after bids have been received and
evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


