Report No. 685a-SE
Appraisal of Terres Neuves 11 Resettlement
and Eastern Senegal Technical Assistance Project
Senegal
june 6, 1975
Western Africa Regional Office
FILE COPY
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use oniy by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or compieteness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                         C CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million      =         US$4,444
1WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)         =         2.2 lb.
1 metric ton (ton)      =         2,204.6 lb.
1 hectare (ha)          =         2.47 acres
1 square kilometer
(km2)                          0.386 souare miles
ABBREVIATIONS
ENDS        =      National Development Bank of Senegal (Banque Nationale
de Développement du Sénégal)
CFDT        =       Cotton Developrnent Agency of France (Compagnie Française
pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles)
FED         =       European Development Fund
ONCAD       =       The Office for Cooperatives and Development Assistance
(Office Nationale de Coopérition et d'Assistance pour
le Développement).
ORSTO4M     =       The Overseas Research Agency of France (Office de l;
Recherche Scientifique des Territoires d'Outre Mer)
PA          =       Agricultural Credit and Extension Program
(Programme Agricole)
SODEFITEX   =      Senegal Cotton Development Agency (Soci6tê pour le
Développement des Fibres Textiles)
SODEVA      =      Agricultural Development Agency (Société de
Développement et de Vulgarisation Agricole)
STN         =      Resettlement Agency (Sociét6 des Terres Neuves)
FISCAL YEAR
Government       -    July 1 - June 30
STN              -    October 1 - September 30



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF THE TERRES NEUVES II
RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............          ..      ..................    i - v
I.    INTRODUCTION  .........................................
II.    BACKGROUND ...........................................                      2
A.    General .........................................                     2
B.    Rural Sector ....................................                    2
C.    Agricultural Development Strategy  ....               ...........    5
D.    Pilot Resettlement Project Results  ....               ..........    6
E.    Project Area (Eastern Senegal)  ....               ..............    9
III.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................                    10
A.   Description  .....................................                   10
B.    Detailed Features  ...............................                  il
C.    Organization and Management .....................                   15
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....                ........    16
A.    Cost Estimates  ..................................                  16
B.   Proposed Financing ..............................                    18
C.    Credit Arrangements  .............................                  19
D.    Procurement  .....................................                  20
E.    Disbursements  ...................................                  20
F.    Accounts and Audit  ..............................                  21
V.   YIELDS, OUTPUT, PRICES, SETTLER INCOMES, AND GOVERNMENT
REVENUES  .............................................                   22
A.   Yields and Output ...............................                    22
B.    Markets and Prices  ..............................                  22
C.    Settler Incomes  .................................                  23
D.    Government Revenues  .............................                  24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. A. Cole, C. de Troyer, F-M. Patorni, and S. Weed that visited Senegal
in July 1974.






TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................   24
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................    25
ANNEXES
1.   Progress of Agricultural Projects
2.   Pilot Project Results
3.   Onchocerciasis
4.   Settlement Procedures and Agricultural Development
5.   Settlement Program Infrastructure Development
Table 1 - Road Building Schedule
Table 2 - Buildings
6.   Draft Terms of Reference for a Regional Plan for Integrated
Agricultural Development
7.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Summary
Table 2 - Infrastructure, Settler Recruitment, Transportation
and Land Clearing
Table 3 - On-farm
Table 4 - Management
Table 5 - Regional Plan
Table 6 - Taxes
8.   Quarterly Disbursements of IDA Credit
9.   Production
10.   Markets and Prices
Table 1 - Maize
Table 2 - Millet and Sorghum
Table 3 - Groundnuts
Table 4 - Cotton
il.   Farm Budget
Table 1 - Farm Plan (Manual Clearing)
Table 2 - Farm Budget (Manual Clearing)
Table 3 - Farm Plan (Mechanical Clearing)
Table 4 - Farm Budget (Mechanical Clearing)
12.   Government Revenues
Table 1 - Government Revenues on Production
Table 2 - Government Cash Flow



ANNEXES (Continued)
13.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 2 - Sensitivity Analysis
MAPS
(3110R) - Senegal
(11273) - Settlement Program Area



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF THE TERRES NEUVES II
RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Background.  The Government of Senegal requested IDA to help
finance the resettlement of 2,000 families from the most heavily populated
areas of the country in Eastern Senegal. The project was planned as a follow-
up to the pilot resettlement scheme financed by IDA in 1971 (Credit 254-SE).
ii.       The appraisal mission in July, 1974, found out from study of recon-
naissance soil surveys of Eastern Senegal and from information supplied by
the consultants who prepared the follow-up project for the Government, that
there is insufficient vacant land with suitable soils for settlement on the
scale envisaged by Government. Moreover, in future, vacant land is most
likely to be found in scattered pockets near established villages. Spot
checks made by the Ministry of Health showed also that between 20% and 60%
of the established populations near some of the sites proposed for new settle-
ment have symptoms of onchocerciasis (river blindness). Consequently, the
mission can recommend further settlement by only about 600 families in the
vicinity of the pilot project area which is safe for settlement.  During
discussions, Government stated that it would wish to investigate further the
constraints on resettlement that are posed by soils and river blindness before
abandoning its plans for large-scale settlement in Eastern Senegal. On the
other hand, the Government agreed that, since the evidence indicated that
resettlement would pose serious problems, development in Eastern Senegal should
emphasize the considerable potential for increasing the output from established
farms and livestock herds. The project described in this report has been
designed to (a) complete settlement in the pilot project area, and (b) prepare
a master plan, including investment proposals for the integrated agricultural
development of Eastern Senegal.
iii.      The project would make full use of the infrastructure constructed
for the pilot project and test variations of settlement techniques. The
regional planning activities would provide the basis for integrated agricul-
tural development after the Government's presently planned projects for the
region are completed in the late 1970s. The project would be implemented
over the four-year period 1976-79, and would comprise:
(a)  establishing nine new villages for 450 settler families, and
installing 150 families in existing villages;
(b) constructing 8 settlement officer houses, 9 stores, 12 class-
rooms, 76 km of village access tracks, and 25 km of secondary roads;



- ii -
(c) constructing 9 wells for new villages and rehabilitating
about 15 wells for existing villages accepting settlers;
(d) providing settlers with tools and grants for manual land
clearing, subsistence allowances, and credit facilities
for agricultural inputs and mechanical land clearing;
(e) providing settlers with extension services; and
(f) providing the staff and zonsultant services required to prepare
a regional plan and investment proposals for the development
of the agricultural sector in Eastern Senegal.
iv.       Resettlement.  Resettlement would follow most of the arrangements
established by the pilot scheme, with three important exceptions. Firstly,
150 families would be settled in existing villages to test whether this could
be a satisfactory method of settlement for the future that could make use of
the small and scattered pockets of vacant land. Secondly, to reduce costs
and ensure that settlers contribute fully to the development of their holdings,
the project would encourage settlers to clear their holdings entirely by hand
or require them to repay the cost of mechanical clearing instead of receiving
2 ha of land mechanically cleared free of charge - the practice established
by the pilot scheme. Finally, to encourage stump removal, a requirement for
promoting improved cultivation techniques and land use, settlers would be
allocated 4 ha of land on installation and the balance of their 10 ha holdings
as they clear their land of roots and stumps.
v.        Project Execution.  Government intends to establish a regional dev-
elopment agency for Eastern Senegal, but has not finalized its plans for the
agency nor decided the future roles of STN and SODEFITEX in the region. How-
ever, as STN will continue to be responsible for resettlement, it would have
primary responsibility for implementing the project. As for the pilot project,
STN would recruit and transport settlers; install settlers in new and existing
villages; provide tools and payments for land clearing, subsistence allowances,
and agricultural credit; and arrange for mechanical land clearing and for the
construction of wells, roads, tracks, stores, classrooms and staff housing.
During the first year of the project while Government considers its plans for
a regional development agency, STN would obtain assistance from SODEFITEX to
provide settlers with agricultural extension services. For this purpose, it
would sign a contract with terms and conditions acceptable ta the Association.
At the end of this contract, Government would review and agree with the Asso-
ciation arrangements for continuing agricultural extension services to settlers.
The review would take account of Government's latest plans for a regional
development agency, and of the effectiveness of the contract between STN and
SODEFITEX. Future arrangements would not preclude a renewal of this contract
should this be considered the most effective solution for the project.



- ii -
vi.       Regional Planning and Technical Assistance.  The project's regional
planning activities would be carried out in two stages. The first would
involve collecting and analyzing information on the region, and drafting a
regional plan and terms of reference for the surveys and studies required
to prepare an integrated agricultural development project. The second would
involve preparing investment proposals and this would be undertaken only upon
agreement by the Government and IDA on a draft regional plan and terms of refer-
ence. The Ministry of Planning would be responsible for the regional plan.
To help carry out the preparation, the Ministry would seek technical assistance
from WH0 for the health surveys and analysis of the problems that river blind-
ness and other diseases may pose for development, and would employ consultants
financed by the project to prepare the plan and investment proposals.
vii.      Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements.  The estimated cost of
the project is US$3.94 million. Costs are based on mid-1975 prices and in-
clude a foreign exchange component of US$1.42 million, and taxes of US$0.53
million, equivalent respectively to 36% and 13% of total costs. Physical
contingencies and expected price increases would amount to 26% of base cost
estimates.
viii.     It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$2.0 million be made to
Government on standard terms to finance 51% of the total project cost or 59%
of such cost net of taxes. The credit would cover the foreign exchange costs
and US$580,000 or 23% of local currency costs. The remaining 77% of local
currency costs totalling US$1.94 million would be met from Government budget-
ary allocations (US$1.38 million), by the National Development Bank of Senegal
(BNDS - US$0.47 million) and by settlers (US$0.09 million).
ix.       Since STN would not have revenues to offset its project costs, Gov-
ernment's contribution and the IDA credit would be passed on to it as a grant.
US$0.12 million of Governnent's contribution plus the contributions from BNDS
and settlers would finance incremental on-farm costs.
x.        BNDS would channel credit to settlers through STN.  In line with
Governnent's policy of maintaining interest rates at levels attractive to
private investors, short, medium and long term credit would bear interest at
2% above the Central Bank's rediscount rate (currently 5.5%).
xi.       Procurement.  Most expenditures for project buildings, roads, wells,
mechanical land clearing, vehicles and equipment, totalling about US$1.7 mil-
lion, would be spread over three years and would include a variety of items
that prevent bulking to make contracts attractive to international bidders.
Contracts for three wells, required in 1975 totalling US$0.1 million, would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Because of the small
number and the h.gh cost of works undertaken by local contractors alternative
arrangements would be followed for the other items: feeder roads and village
access tracks (US$0.6 million) would be constructed and improved by the
Ministry of Works or by the Army Engineering Corps; six wells would be con-
structed and 15 improved (US$0.3 million) by Government's well building
brigades; low cost village stores and junior staff housing (US$0.2 million)



- iv -
would be constructed with direct labor employed and materials purchased by
STN; and mechanical land clearing (US$0.5 million) would be carried out on
force account using Government owned and operated equipment. Contracts for
vehicles and equipment (US$0.1 million) would be awarded on the basis of local
suppliers' quotations. Farm inputs (US$0.6 million) would be supplied by
ONCAD. The remaining project costs comprise personnel and management expendi-
tures (US$0.8 million) and grants and allowances to settlers (US$0.4 million)
that would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. Consultant services
(US$0.3 million) would be obtained according to IDA's normal procedures.
xii.      Disbursements.  The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed to
cover: (a) 80% of the total cost of civil works -- US$544,000; (b) 60% of the
local cost of vehicles and manual land clearing tools or, if imported directly
for the project, 100% of the foreign exchange cost -- US$48,000; (c) 80% of
the total cost of mechanical land clearing -- US$160,000; (d) 80% of the total
personnel costs for STN and SODEFITEX -- US$318,000; (e) 100% of the foreign
cost of consultant services -- US$320,000; and (f) 80% of the total counter-
part personnel costs for the Ministry of Planning -- US$42,000. US$568,000
would be unallocated.
xiii.     Benefits and Justification.  The majority of settlers would have
very low pre-project incomes, and in many cases would be landless and depend-
ent on relatives and friends for their subsistence. For these families the
project would provide income opportunities that otherwise would be unobtain-
able. For settlers in new villages the net value of farm production, includ-
ing the food consumed by the family, would rise from US$410 to US$1,315 between
year 1 and year 10 of participation. For farmers moving to existing villages
the value would increase from US$310 to US$1,100. On a per capita basis,
these values correspond to US$82 in year 1, and US$132 for year 10 in new
villages; and to US$70 in year 1 and US$110 in year 10, in existing villages.
During the same per.od settler families are expected to increase from 5 to 10
members, mainly as a result of the continuous migration of relatives from the
departure area. Prior to their departure the per capita incomes of settlers
would be mostly among the lowest 25% of the rural population and would be
between about US$30 and US$70. Since settlers would have pre-project incomes
well below the average for the country, the project would provide adequate
incentives.
xiv.      The project's direct benefits would be the increased annual output
of about 1,500 tons of seed cotton, 2,800 tons of unshelled groundnuts and
3,500 tons of cereals, that would provide improved livelihoods for the 6,000
members of settler families, and a net contribution of about CFAF 300 million
(US$1.3 million) annually to Senegal's foreign exchange earnings. The project
roads, water supply and social infrastructure improvements would also benefit
about 10,000 members of existing farm families in the project area.
xv.       The economic rate of return would be about 147..  An overall reduction
of benefits of 25% or an increase in capital costs of 15% would lower the rate
of return respectively by 7 and 3 percentage points. In view of the experience
gained in the pilot project, the risk that benefits would fall by 25% is low



- v -
unless world market prices fall much more than expected, and cost overruns
are unlikely to exceed 15%. Therefore, the project is expected to have a
satisfactory rate of return.
xvi.      The project's pre-investment activities would permit the Government
to make detailed plans for the development of Eastern Senegal for the period
1980-85. They would make a realistic assessment of the scope for resettlement
in Senegal and would determine the extent of the threat to the region posed by
river blindness. Without information on these issues, much effort and invest-
ment may be misdirected, with the risk that the region's resources and poten-
tial -- particularly its relatively good rainfall -- would not be developed
effectively.
Recommendation
xvii.     With the assurances and conditions set out in Chapter VII, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$2.0 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1969, the Government of Senegal asked IDA to help finance a
resettlement project providing for the migration of 1,000 families from
heavily populated areas of Senegal's "Groundnut Basin" to less populated
areas of Eastern Senegal. Following appraisal of the project in 1970, the
Government and IDA agreed in 1971 under Credit 254-SE (US$1.3 million) to
implement a pilot resettlement scheme, involving some 300 settler families,
and to study the feasibility of a larger resettlement program comprising
the migration of about 6,000 families over 15 years. The pilot project has
shown that resettlement can be viable and in June 1974, the Government pro-
posed a follow-up project for financing by IDA involving the resettlement
of 2,000 families.
1.02      The appraisal mission composed of Messrs.  A.P. Cole, F-M. Patorni,
C. de Troyer and S. Weed (Bank) that visited Senegal in July 1974 concluded
from study of reconnaissance soil surveys of Eastern Senegal and from informa-
tion supplied by the consultants who prepared the follow-up project for the
Government, that there is insufficient vacant land with suitable soils for
settlement on the scale envisaged by Government. Moreover, spot checks made
by the Ministry of Health showed that between 20% and 60% of the established
populations near some of the sites proposed for new settlement have symptoms
of onchocerciasis (river blindness).  Consequently, the mission can recommend
further settlement by only about 600 families in the vicinity of the pilot
project area which is safe for settlement. During discussions with the
mission, Government stated that it would wish to investigate further the con-
straints on resettlement that are posed by soils and river blindness before
abandoning its plans for large-scale settlement in Eastern Senegal. On the
other hand, the Government agreed that, since the evidence indicated that
resettlement would pose serious problems, development in Eastern Senegal
should emphasize the considerable potential for increasing the output from
existing farms and livestock herds. The project described in this report has
been designed to (a) complete settlement in the pilot project area, and (b)
prepare a master plan including investment proposals for the integrated agri-
cultural development of Eastern Senegal.
1.03      In addition to Credit 254-SE, the Bank Group has provided one loan
and five credits for agricultural development in Senegal: an agricultural
credit program financed by Loan 584-SE (US$3.5 million) and Credit 140-SE
(US$6.0 million) in 1969, and Credit 404-SE (US$8.2 million) in 1973; rice
development in Casamance financed by Credit 252-SE (US$3.7 million) in 1971;
rice development in the Senegal River delta financed by Credit 350-SE (US$3.0
million) in 1973; and drought relief financed by Credit 446-SE (US$3.0 million)
in 1973. In the agricultural credit program, demand for farm implements ini-
tially developed more slowly than expected because of droughts and unfavorable
terms of trade for farmers and, as a consequence, Loan 594-SE was cancelled
in 1971. However, after demand for implements picked up, IDA provided an
additional US$8.2 million for the program in 1973 (Credit 404-SE). Disburse-
ments of Credit 404-SE are proceeding satisfactorily. The two agricultural



- 2 -
credits also provided for technical assistance to the Office for Cooperatives
and Development Assistance (ONCAD); this program has been unsuccessful and
Government and IDA are determining alternative means for strengthening ONCAD.
The other projects are progressing satisfactorily (Annex 1).
1.04      An IDA credit and a Bank Loan (Credit 549-SE and Loan 1113-SE) for
an agricultural development project in the Sine Saloum area of the Groundnut
Basin, and an engineering credit (Credit S-18-SE) for the Debi Lampsar irriga-
tion project in the Senegal River delta were signed in May 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Senegal, located mostly within the Sud a o-Sahelian zone on the
West African coast, has a land area of 196,200 km . The population is esti-
mated at 4.2 million and is growing annually at about 2.2%.  Urban areas
account for about 30% of the total population, the largest being around the
capital, Dakar (pop. 0.6 million). Average per capita GDP, as derived from
national accounts estimates, was about US$445 in 1974; however, per capita
production in rural areas in that year averaged only about US$250.
2.02      In 1972 the economy came under severe strain as a result of the
worst drought in this century. In 1973 there was another, less severe
drought and by the end of the year total foreign reserves had reached an
all-time low of minus US$31 million, the real standards of living in rural
areas had declined to the levels of the early 1960s and Government's financial
position had become very precarious. Faced with this situation, the Government
had to resort to Eurodollar borrowing despite unusually high foreign assistance
to avoid a slowdown in its investment program and to finance the acquisition
of two foreign-owned public utility companies. During 1974 the economic
situation improved markedly as a result of sharp price increases for ground-
nuts and rock phosphate, Senegal's two main exports. In addition, satisfactory
rainfall in 1974 improved crop production, and the Government has taken steps
to improve its financial situation by eliminating consumer subsidies for
imported rice (para. 2.12).
B. Rural Sector
2.03      Despite relatively poor soils and erratic rainfall, the agricultural
sector is central to Senegal's economy. It accounts for about 35% of GDP, up
to 70% of Senegal's exports, and 70% of all employment. Moreover, as Senegal
has few known alternatives, agriculture will continue to be the largest source
of employment for the foreseeable future.



- 3 -
2.04      There are several important sectoral characteristics:  small-scale
farms account for 95% of all production; groundnuts account for almost 70%
of agricultural exports; 60% of the rural population is concentrated within
about 100 miles of Dakar in the Groundnut Basin; and large areas in the
northern and eastern parts of the country are suitable only for livestock
production under extensive grazing. Thus. there are significant variations
in the distribution of population but with smaller differences in cropping
patterns.
2.05      Government's efforts to develop agriculture have been directed to
(a) increasing groundnut and millet production, especially in the Groundnut
Basin, (b) diversifying production by promoting rice and cotton in Casamance
and Eastern Senegal, and developing the irrigation potential of the Senegal
river, and (c) encouraging the migration of farmers from the heavily populated
areas of the Groundnut Basin to Eastern Senegal.
Programme Agricole
2.06      A central feature of Government's rural development strategy has
been "Programme Agricole" (PA), which has been supported by Credits 140 and
404-SE. Starting in the early 1960s, it aimed at increasing the production
of millet and groundnuts by making animal-drawn implements, fertilizers and
improved seeds available to farmers on credit, providing extension services
to promote the correct use of these inputs, and by developing cooperatives to
facilitate the distribution of inputs and crop marketing. The main organiza-
tions involved in PA are the National Office of Cooperatives and Development
Assistance (ONCAD), and the cooperatives, which ONCAD supervises and assists.
2.07      In addition to supporting the cooperatives, ONCAD procures and
distributes farm inputs, administers the associated subsidies, and maintains
and distributes the stock of groundnut seeds. It is also responsible for
marketing groundnuts, domestic cereals and imported rice. Because of its
role in groundnut marketing, ONCAD is the agency primarily responsible for
the recovery of credit under PA. Finance for this credit is provided by the
National Development Bank of Senegal (BNDS), which also provides short-term
financing of the groundnut purchases and input inventories of ONCAD, short-
and medium-term credits to cooperatives and loans to individual farmers.
The amounts lent to cooperatives are governed by the past volume of groundnuts
marketed.
2.08      Cooperatives form the basic structure in Government's plan for
organizing the rural sector. Senegal has about 2,200 cooperatives, and the
average cooperative has about 120 members. In exchange for a membership fee
of CFAF 1,000, the member is entitled to credit for fertilizer, insecticides
and agricultural implements distributed under PA. In addition to serving as
a channel for collectively guaranteed credit, the cooperatives serve as the
focal point for the distribution of seeds and for the marketing of the output
of members and non-members alike. In order to enable the cooperatives to be
more self-sufficient, ONCAD plans to reorganize the cooperatives into basic
units or unions that will market at least 1,500 tons of groundnuts per year,
the minimum it considers necessary to pay for a full-time cooperative manager.



- 4 -
2.09      PA's goals were ambitious and its targets included rapid increases
in cultivated areas as well as yield increases. During the early 1960s,
groundnut and millet production reached record levels, at least in part due
to the promotion of fertîlizers and animal traction under PA. In the last
half of the 1960s, however, yields and production of these crops declined
sharply with the onset of the droughts. In the 1970s, production has fluc-
tuated with rainfall; but even in good rainfall years, output has not ex-
ceeded the record levels of the mid-1960s. This leveling off, together with
the fact that some 80% of the farmers in the Groundnut Basin now participate,
suggests that PA may have reached the limits of its development potential.
Development Agencies
2.10      Semi-autonomous development agencies, organized on either regional
or product lines and reporting to the Ministry of Rural Development, have
begun to supplant the Ministry in the provision of extension services to
farmers (although the latter still maintains direct responsibility for exten-
sion in parts of Casamance and for small scale vegetable projects, generally
near Dakar). An Agricultural Development Agency (SODEVA) has been given
overall responsibility for extension in the Groundnut Basin and has been
primarily concerned with the introduction of improved farming techniques
under Programme Agricole in which it has been quite successful. SAED is res-
ponsible for rice development in the Senegal River Delta, and may become the
Regional Development Agency for the whole valley, while SODEFITEX is responsi-
ble for cotton production, mainly in Eastern Senegal. In addition to provid-
ing technical extension services, these two agencies are responsible for
distributing inputs procured by ONCAD to the farmers, and for marketing and
processing farm output. A fourth agency, the Societe des Terres Neuves (STN),
is responsible for settlement projects, primarily in Eastern Senegal. The
activities of these agencies have shown that new techniques can be rapidly
introduced when PA is supported by projects comprising close extension super-
vision.
Financing Agricultural Development
2.11      A key problem in development activities lies in assuring adequate
financing. The regional development agencies have no revenues to finance
their extension activities and must rely on Government support, either directly
from the budget or from external donors. ONCAD is theoretically self-financing,
wîth its marketing activities paid for out of the differential between the
price paid to producers for groundnuts and that received from the oil mills;
the cost of input distribution is included in the price of inputs supplied to
farmers. However, the lack of appropriate procedures to provide funds to
cover the costs of subsidies on farm inputs and consumer purchases of cereals
has contributed to ONCAD's current severe financial difficulties.
Subsidies
2.12      Until recently, subsidies for imported foodstuffs have discouraged
local production and caused serious financial problems. Recognizing the
harmful effects of these policies, Government in November 1974 eliminated



the subsidy for imported rice, which had reached a value of about CFAF 7.5
billion per year, and reduced the subsidies on sugar and vegetable oil. At
the same time, producer prices for groundnuts were raised by 40% and for
cotton by 55% to reflect more closely their world market value. Fertilizers
are still subsidized, however, while ONCAD has been selling farm implements
below cost. In addition to contributing to the financial problems of ONCAD,
this policy encourages the uneconomic use of inputs.
2.13      In splte of rising costs for farm implements, the prices paid by
the farmer have been frozen at 1973 levels, resulting in ONCAD losses of about
CFAF 150 million in 1974. Given the recent increases in producer prices, the
farmer should be able to pay full cost for the implements. Government has
raised the prices charged to farmers by 15% for the 1975 campaign and, during
negotiations of the Sine Saloum Agricultural Development Project, an assurance
was obtained that Government would continue to follow a policy of progressive
adoption of prices reflecting the full cost of implements.
2.14      Credit 404-SE provides for annual consultations between IDA and
Governnent on the level of fertilizer subsidies. The goal of these consulta-
tions was to be the progressive reduction in the level of the subsidy. How-
ever, the maintenance of a constant price to farmers in light of higher world
market prices has led to an increase in the subsidy which covered about 80%
of costs and amounted, in total, to about CFAF 2 billion in 1974. The first
of the consultations was held during the negotiations for the Sine Saloum
Agricultural Development Project and Government informed the Bank Group that
the price paid by farmers was raised from CFAF 12/kg to CFAF 16/kg for the
1975 campaign (increases in cost, however, kept the subsidy at about the same
percentage). An assurance was obtained that Government would follow a policy
of progressive adoption of prices reflecting the full cost of fertilizers
and that consultations would be held between the Government and the Bank Group
in October/November of each year to discuss prices to be set for the following
campaign.
C. Agricultural Development Strategy
2.15      Because of the heavy concentration of population in the Groundnut
Basin, the improvement of productivity for groundnuts and cereals in that
region is the only practical short-term means for improving the livelihood of
most of the rural population.  However, the agricultural potential of the
Groundnut Basin is severely limited by its unreliable rainfall, and Govern-
ment's plans to develop irrigation in the Senegal River Region, and agricul-
ture in the higher rainfall areas of Eastern Senegal and Casamance are sound
and would give the country some measure of protection against the most severe
effects of droughts.



- 6 -
2.16      In recognition of the success of projects to diversify and intensify
production in specific geographical areas (para 2.10), Government intends to
establish development agencies for each of the country's regions. This
strategy is sound because PA is not designed to provide the intensive super-
vision required to move farmers to new levels of productivity, and because
these semi-autonomous development agencies have managerial and administrative
advantages over Government departments. Most of these agencies, which provide
normal government services, are not, and are not expected to be, revenue earn-
ing, and Government has so far relied heavily on external assistance to cover
their costs. Exclusive reliance on external finance would be imprudent and
Government should, therefore, plan the budgetary measures necessary to assure
adequate financial support for these agencies.
D. Pilot Resettlement Project Results (Annex 2)
2.17      The pilot project (Credit 254-SE) was designed to test the feasibi-
lity of settling farmers from heavily populated parts of the Groundnut Basin
in Eastern Senegal. Eastern Senegal has long been considered the "new
frontier" with a substantial potential for absorbing farm families from the
Groundnut Basin and for assuring these with good incomes from cultivating
more productive soils under more favorable rainfall (para 2.27). As discussed
later (para 2.25), this potential now appears much smaller and many difficul-
ties will have to be overcome. The main questions to be tested under the
pilot project were the willingness of farmers to migrate and the cost and
benefits of resettlement. The project included provision for evaluation of
these issues by ORSTOM, a French Government research institution. The proj-
ect comprised the demarcation of an area of 800 km2 in Eastern Senegal (map
3110R) and the establishment thereon of six villages, each comprising 50
families. Government established the Societe des Terres Neuves (STN) to
implement the proJect and provide agricultural support services for about
250 families already living in the project area.
2.18      The first settlers arrived in 1972 and the installation of 300
settler families, some 1,800 people in all, was completed on schedule in
1974. At the outset, settler recruitment was slow; but with increasing
awareness of the project and its potentialities in the departure area, recruit-
ment improved and demand exceeded requirements. It is clear that there would
be sufficient volunteers to support a very substantial resettlement program in
Eastern Senegal. The majority of settlers comprised landless families, most
of whom had already migrated from their homes in search of paid employment.
None of the settler families has left the project, but strong ties have been
maintained with relatives and friends in the Groundnut Basin.
2.19      Costs per sett'Lr family for the first three years were about
US$3,600, made up as follows: access roads, US$250; water supplies, US$600;
mechanical land clearing, US$800; farm inputs, US$500; equipment and build-
ings for project management, US$450; and management salaries and operating
costs for three years, US$1,000. Road building and mechanical land clearing



- 7 -
costs were alm»ost double appraisal costs, but the remaining costs were in
line with estimates. The high road and land clearing costs resulted from
Government's insistence on higher road specifications than envisaged at
appraisal and inadequate competition among contractors to clear land.
2.20      By hand-clearing land more quickly than expected, the settlers
cultivated a total of 1,500 ha in 1974, compared with the appraisal target
of 1,000 ha. The target for cotton cultivation was met and the targets for
cereals and groundnuts were exceeded. In 1973, the latest year with accurate
information, groundnut yields were 1,340 kg/ha (appraisal estimate, 1,000
kg/ha); cotton, 930 kg/ha (appraisal estimate, 1,200 kg/ha); and cereals
700 kg/ha (appraisal estimate, 1,000 kg/ha). Total production of groundnuts
was double the appraisal estimate, because of the combined effect of yields
and increased cropped areas, that of cotton met the appraisal targets, and
total cereal production was slightly less. Farmgate prices realized exceeded
appraisal estimates by 40% for groundnuts, 60% for cotton and 80% for cereals,
and as a consequence, the cash incomes of settlers in their second year on the
project were about US$95 per capita, compared with US$20 estimated at apprai-
sal, and a nationwide average of about US$60 per capita. Because of good
incomes and because rainfall in the project area is higher and less erratic
than in the Groundnut Basin, the settler families are well satisfied with
the project. In contrast to the settlement program, the progress made by
established farmers has been poor, largely because STN staff has concentrated
on the settlement program. For these farmers, yields in 1973 averaged 500
kg/ha (against an appraisal estimate of 900 kg/ha) for groundnuts, and 830
kg/ha (against an estimate of 1,200 kg/ha) for cotton.
2.21      In the short term, results of the project must be considered as
satisfactory, especially as the first two project years coincided with the
recent Sahelian drought, and the project should attain a rate of return equal,
if not better, than the 13% calculated at appraisal. But the settlers tried
to follow traditional methods of cultivation that result in lower than possi-
ble yields per unit area, and that ignore potential problems such as soil
erosion and the rapid depletion of soil nutrients. It is essential, there-
fore, that project management insist that settlers retain windbreaks of
natural vegetation, plant such windbreaks as may be needed, cultivate on the
contour and follow sound crop rotations, crop management practices and fertili-
zer use regimes. Settlers under contract with STN are required to follow
STN's agricultural recommendations on pain of exclusion from the project,
but so far, STN has not taken action against delinquent settlers.
2.22      Water supply proved a major problem in project implementation,
basically because of the depth of the water table, about 60 m. Four villages
were provided with tubewells, each well being equipped with three experimental
hand pumps. These pumps broke down frequently and are being replaced by mecha-
nical pumps. The other two villages were provided with traditional wells of
about 2 m in diameter. While lifting water from 60 m by hand is laborious,
the settlers appear to prefer this to the tubewells, basically because supply
is assured, while in the case of the tubewells, pump failure means that the



- 8 -
village has no supply until repairs are completed. The failure of the hand
pumps and the lack of a school and medical facilities have been the causes
of the only serious complaints by the settlers. Water supply is now assured
from traditional wells, and the local authorities are building a central
school and clinic to serve all the settlers.
2.23      Because the national organizations in charge of extension, credit
and marketing services were being reorganized when the pilot project was
appraised, STN was established to implement the project and provide support
services to settlers. Between 1971 and July 1974, STN employed the Cotton
Development Company of France (CFDT) to manage the project, but with the ap-
pointment of a full-time technical director for STN in April, 1974, and the
replacement in Senegal of CFDT by the Senegal Cotton Development Company
(SODEFITEX - para. 2.31), STN took over direct management of the project which
remains its only activity. STN's technical director has his headquarters in
Dakar, and STN's other staff comprise the pilot project manager, his deputy
and 17 extension workers. STN, with the help of CFDT management, proved to be
an effective settlement agency, but its management capacity, since it took
over day-to-day management of the project in July 1974, has yet to be tested.
2.24      A serious problem during implementation was constant delays by
Government in providing finance for project expenditures. Consequently,
there was a delay of two years in providing STN with its full equity capital.
As a result, project activities, particularly construction of infrastructure,
were often held up and the project was almost brought to a standstill on
several occasions. Government has now paid up STN's capital in full, and in
1974 established a special fund to be used for Government's contributions to
projects financed in part by the Bank Group. This fund should help to avoid
financing delays in future and STN would be one of the agencies benefiting
from the arrangement.
2.25      Following the successful installation of settlers in 1972 and 1973,
Government asked ORSTOM in September 1973 to prepare a follow-up project. It
was expected that this project involving some 2,000 settler families would be
located adjacent and to the south and east of the pilot project area. However,
ORSTOM found that much of the vacant land adjacent to the pilot project had
soils too shallow for arable cultivation. ORSTOM then proposed a project
comprising settlement of about 600 families in the pilot project area, which
would take up all the remaining suitable land, and the settlement of an addi-
tional 1,400 families to the south and east of Tambacounda (Map 3110R) with
specific settlement sites to be located in the course of project implementation,
i.e., the project would begin with settlement of the 600 families in the pilot
project area and prospection of the new sites. The appraisal mission found,
however, that soils suitable for arable cultivation are very scattered to the
south and east of Tambacounda and that, even more serious, river blindness
appears to be endemic in these latter areas.



- 9 -
2.26      Government has reluctantly accepted the appraisal mission's view
that, apart from settling 600 new families in the pilot project area, the
ORSTOM proposed project is not feasible. Nevertheless, it wishes to continue
resettlement in Eastern Senegal wherever this is feasible and asked the Asso-
ciation to finance soil and medical (particularly river blindness) surveys to
determine the availability of suitable sites for resettlement. Evidence
indicates that where there is scope for raw settlement, it is unlikely to
involve very large blocks of vacant land, as under the pilot project, but
rather be in the fori of small scattered settlements, many of which would be
additions to established villages. As the pilot project has demonstrated
not only that settlement in Eastern Senegal is attractive to people in the
Groundnut Basin, but also that growing conditions in Eastern Senegal can
support a relatively productive agriculture, it appears logical that such a
program of scattered settlement should be incorporated with one for the improve-
ment of existing cultivation within the framework of an integrated agricultural
development plan for the region. The project described in this report would
thus encompass the settlement of 600 families in the pilot project area, and
the preparation of such a development plan.
E. Project Area (Eastern Senegal)
2.27      The administrative region of Eastern Senegal comprises about 60,000
km2, of which 10,000 km2 have been set aside as a national park and 20,000 km2
reserved for forests.  Annual rainfall, ranging from about 600 mm in the north
to 1,500 mm in the south, is higher and more reliable than for much of the
remainder of the country except for Casamance. Offsetting this advantage,
however, cultivable soils appear restricted to about 15% of the total area.
Moreover, while groundwater resources are reliable, the water table is very
deep, between 30 and 60 meters -- a depth difficult to tap with traditional
hand-dug wells.
2.28      The rural population is about 200,000.  Communications as well as
education and health facilities are poor, and spot surveys show that in
villages to the east of the Gambia (Map 3110R) and close to the Gambia river,
between 20-60% of the population has symptoms of river blindness (Annex 3).
Consequently, the resettlement of these areas is impractical and undesirable
until river blindness is controlled.
2.29      Agricultural production consists of subsistence farming plus the
production of about 13,000 tons of cotton and 25,000 tons of groundnuts for
cash sale, 40% and 3% respectively, of national production. The scope for
developing the livestock industry is good, but the present herd, 300,000 head
of cattle, is grossly under-exploited.
2.30      In addition to the pilot resettlement scheme supported by IDA, there
are two Government sponsored agricultural projects in the region. These are
supported in part by the European Development Fund (FED) and are concerned



- 10 -
with increasing the output of cotton and rainfed rice. Government plans to
amalgamate the rice and cotton production projects and expand their activities
through a project which FED will finance in the period 1975-79. Government
also expects financial assistance from the Bank Group over the period 1975-80,
for a livestock development project that was prepared under a Bank executed
UNDP technical assistance project. In addition to these projects, the Gov-
ernment has obtained external financial assistance to construct and rehabili-
tate wells and roads in the region.
2.31      Currently, apart from STN, the only other development organization
functioning on any scale in the region is SODEFITEX. SODEFITEX was established
in 1974 by CFDT and the Senegal Government with the primary responsibility for
developing the production, marketing and ginning of cotton in Senegal, and for
providing extension services to farmers for all crops in the major cotton-
growing areas located in Eastern Senegal and eastern Casamance. The Government
and its Caisse de Stabilisation own 86% and CFDT 14% of SODEFITEX's capital.
In 1974, under the FED financed project, SODEFITEX supervised cotton production
on 29,000 hectares, of which 40% was in Eastern Senegal. SODEFITEX is staffed
mostly by Senegalese employees with only the deputy general manager and a small
number of senior technical staff provided by CFDT. It has about 100 field
staff in Eastern Senegal and a regional headquarters at Tambacounda. It is
an effective and well-managed organization.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
3.01      The project would have two components:  (a) investments to continue
resettlement in the pilot project area; and (b) surveys and studies to prepare
a master plan for the region, including investment proposals for an integrated
agricultural development project. The resettlement component would make full
use of the infrastructure constructed for the pilot project, test variations
of settlement techniques that would be appropriate for future resettlement
activities, and keep settler recruitment channels open. The master plan
would provide the basis for modification of Government's ongoing and planned
projects, and for investment proposals for a project to commence in about
1980 when planned activities are due to terminate (para 2.30), by determining
more accurately than heretofore the prospects for continuing resettlement in
Eastern Senegal, and ensuring that established farmers and livestock owners
make the best use of the region's resources.
3.02      The project would be implemented over the four-year period 1976-79,
and would comprise:
(a)  establishing nine new villages for 450 settler families, and
installing 150 families in existing villages;



- il -
(b) constructing 8 settlement officer houses, 9 stores, 12
classrooms, 76 km of village access tracks, and 25 km
of secondary roads;
(c)  constructing 9 wells for new villages and rehabilitating about
15 wells for existing villages accepting settlers;
(d)  providing settlers with tools and grants for manual land
clearing, subsistence allowances, and credit facilities for
agricultural inputs and for mechanical land clearing;
(e) providing settlers with extension services; and
(f) providing the staff and consultant services required to prepare
a master plan and investment proposals for the development of
the agricultural sector in Eastern Senegal.
B.   Detailed Features
3.03      Settlement Program.  Six hundred families would be settled over
project years (PY) 1 to 3, starting in 1976. Settlement would follow the
pattern of the pilot project, with some important differences for road build-
ing to hold down costs. The project would also place settler families in
existing villages to determine if this method of settlement could be adopted
in future that could make full use of the small and scattered pockets of va-
cant land (para 2.26). The project development schedule would be as follows:
Py1      PY 2      PY 3     Total
New Villages                     4        4         1          9
New Wells                        6        3         -          9
Wells Rehabilitated              5        5         5         15
Access Tracks (km)              32       34        10         76
Feeder Roads (km)                -       25         -        25
Mechanical Land Clearing
(ha)                        400       400      100        900
Warehouses                       4        4         1          9
Junior Staff Houses              3        4         1          8
Classrooms                       3        6         3         12
Settler Families (New
Villages)                   200       200        50       450
Settler Families (Existing
Villages)                     50       50        50       150
Sites for nine new settler villages were identified by ORSTOM in the area
of the pilot project during project preparation and are shown on Map 3110R.
One new village would involve the expansion of Village No. 4 (Map 11273)
established under the pilot project, and the remaining villages would be in



- 12 -
new locations. The existing villages in which 150 settler families would be
installed have not been identified, but they would be in the settlement area
shown on Map 11273. Established farmers have indicated their willingness to
accept settlers into their villages, and there are reasonable prospects for
the success of this method of settlement, as many villages already comprise
people of different tribal origins. A survey in May 1975, by an IDA consultant
has shown that river blindness is not a problem in the area.
3.04      Agricultural Development.  The settlers would grow groundnuts,
cotton and cereals, and would follow the improved agricultural practices
recommended for the pilot project. These practices described in detail in
Annex 4 would include: (a) progressively clearing the land of stumps and
roots; (b) plowing the land for cotton and cereals; (c) using recommended
varieties; (d) following a comprehensive fertilization program; and (e)
timely seeding, and timely and adequate weeding. The extension service
would promote the integration of crop and animal husbandry through a program
of veterinary care, training and feeding of draft oxen. To protect soils,
settlers would be required to retain natural windbreaks, plant such wind-
breaks as may be needed, cultivate on the contour, and follow sound crop
rotations. Assurances were obtained from Government that it vould cause
STN to remove from the project those settlers who failed to respect the terms
of their contracts binding them to follow farming practices recommended by
STN.
3.05      Housing and Buildings.  Three senior staff houses, an office and
a store were built for the pilot project at Koumpentoum and these would be
used to house the project manager and the project headquarters. Eight junior
staff houses would be bui'lt for settlement officers in the villages in new
locations, and each of the nine new villages would have a 100 m2 store to
serve as a shop and supply center. Twelve classrooms would be constructed
in three locations to serve the new and existing villages> and assurances
were obtained that these would be staffed and maintained by the Ministry of
Education. Water supplies, storage facilities, and access tracks would be
improved for 15 existing villages that would receive settlers. Settler
famiLies would build their own houses with local materials and manufactured
materials provided by STN as in the pilot project.
3.06      Roads and Tracks (Annex 5).  Under the pilot project, about 40 km
of access ~-3ads were built by the Ministry of Works au an average cost of
about USS1  Ojks,  The Ministry of Works also rehabilitated the secondary
road between o-«mp-zaoum and Mereto.  These access tracks are 4 m wide and
have a 10 cm gravel surface, a higher specification than required by village
traffic. To keep costs dowr. in the second project, 76 kIa of village tracks
would be constructed as simple levelled tracks with drains, culverts, and
gravel infills 'n areas of poor drainage, and only the Koumpetoum to Massembe
road would be bui1t as a 4 m gravel surfaced secondary road to serve five
new and about 10 existing villages (Map 11273). Even with their lower speci-
fications, the proeect?s access tracks would cost about US$1,800/km and the
gravel secondary road about US$3,600/km. Construction would be phased over
three years anu wou'd be carried out by the Miniscry of Works or the Army



- 13 -
Engineering Corps, which has built roads in Eastern Senegal for the cotton
project (para 2.30). Assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would submit proposed road standards to IDA for comments and agreement, and
that the new roads and tracks would be maintained by the Ministry of Works.
3.07      Water Supplies.  Since hand pumps have not proved satisfactory
under the pilot project (para 2.22), water would be provided from reinforced-
concrete wells that would penetrate the dry season water table by about 5 m
(Annex 5). Nine wells would be built. Six of those would be constructed
by the Government's well building brigades on force account at a unit cost
estimated at CFAF 3 million (US$13,000). To ensure that construction would
be completed on time for settlers arriving in 1976, three other wells would
be constructed in 1975 on contract at a unit cost of about CFAF 6 million
(US$27,000). The extra cost would be justified, because it would ensure the
continuity of the resettlement program. The Government brigades would also
rehabilitate wells for established villages receiving new settlers.
3.08      Land Clearing and Allocation.  For the pilot project, each settler
family was provided with 10 ha, of which 2 ha were mechanically cleared of
vegetation to grow food crops during the first cropping season. Clearing
costs were very high, ranging from US$350 to US$400/ha, largely because there
was no competition among contractors and contracts were small. Since clearing
would be for dispersed blocks of a maximum of 100 ha and would be carried out
over 3 years, there is little prospect of reducing the cost of mechanical
clearing for the second project. As an alternative, therefore, the appraisal
mission recommended that the settlers should be lent tools and be paid during
the first three years after installation at the rate of CFAF 8,000 (US$36) per
hectare cleared of vegetation and CFAF 12,000 (US$53) per hectare cleared of
roots for up to two hectares. Government did not agree to this recommendation
as it considers that the benefits of resettlement are not yet sufficiently
publicized and that 2 ha of land cleared mechanically are still required to
provide an incentive for farmers to join the project. It recognizes, however
that future larger scale resettlement projects of this type should be based
on manual clearing because of the high costs of mechanical clearing and agreed,
therefore, to: (a) restrict mechanical clearing under the present project to
new villages; and (b) to test the response to the manual clearing alternative
recommended by the appraisal mission with those settlers joining established
villages. In addition, settlers receiving land cleared mechanically would
meet the full cost of clearing in the form of repayments of a long-term credit
(para 4.06). This would be a change from the pilot project, in which settlers
received 2 ha of mechanically cleared land as a grant. As a means of reducing
costs of clearing, Government plans to use its own equipment rather than con-
tractors, among whom there is little competition, and estimates that the
clearing costs wotild be about CFAF 50,000/ha (US$222/ha). Contractors' costs
are about CFAF 100,000/ha (US$444/ha). Project costs are based on Government
estimates, but also include a contingency of 100% to cover the event that
clearing costs using force account would be substantially higher than Govern-
ment estimates or that contractors would be used. The two project alternatives
would be offered to settlers as long as space -would be available in existing
villages and for new villages. As stump removal is a prerequisite for effi-
cient land use and the introduction of improved cultivation techniques,



- 14 -
settiers would (a) be allocated 4 ha of their 10 ha of entitlement on instal-
lation and the balance hectare by hectare as the land is uprooted; and (b)
in line with national policy, be given 400 kg/ha of rock phosphate for areas
cleared of roots.
3.09      Allowances and Credit.  Since the settlers would have no alternative
sources of finance or the opportunity to grow all their food requirements for
one or two years, the practice of providing grants for food and building
materials introduced in the pilot project would be continued. These grants
would have a value of CFAF 60,000 (US$267) per family and would be distributed
in kind. The settlers' requirements for agricultural inputs, such as fertil-
izers, seeds, draft oxen and implements, would be financed on credit (para
4.06).
3.10      Regional Development Plan.  No attempt has been made by the Govern-
ment to coordinate planning in the region. As a consequence, projects have
been implemented in isolation, and Government departments and agencies have
not coordinated their activities. However, as investments in the region
have been relatively small, this lack of coordination and planning has not
affected ongoing projects. But with evidence that land for agricultural
development may not be in plentiful supply and with the increased development
activity planned for livestock owners and farmers, plus the Government s
desire to continue resettlement, effective land use planning and resource
management are becoming critical issues in Eastern Senegal.
3.11      The project would, therefore, finance studies by consultants and
Senegalese officials to prepare a master plan for the region. These would
take account of the Government's ongoing and planned projects and would cover
new investments for integrated agricultural development in the region from
1980, when the Government's ongoing projects will be completed, to the mid
1980s. The studies would involve, in sequence (a) a health survey and the
preparation of a draft master plan that would bring together information on
the region including annual surveys of the settlement projects, recommend a
development strategy, including appropriate roles and financing arrangements
for STN and SODEFITEX (para 2.11), identify essential surveys to collect new
data, and provide draft terms of reference for the preparation of investment
proposals; and (b) finalizing the master plan including the preparation of
detailed investment proposals for a project or projects suitable for external
financing. The draft master plan would be reviewed by the Government, IDA
and other potential donors to establish an agreed approach to the region's
future development; the master plan would be finalized only when a common
approach to regional development had been agreed by the Government and IDA.
The draft master plan would require about 14 man-months of consultant services
and the equivalent time of Senegalese counterparts, with the draft to be com-
pleted for review.by the end of 1976. Completion of the plan including pre-
paration of the investment proposals would require about 22 man-months of
consultant services and equivalent counterpart time, and would be completed
by December 1977.  The Governnent would seek technical assistance from WHO
to help determine the seriousness of the constraints imposed on development
by endemic diseases, particularly river blindness.



- 15 -
3.12      Assurances were obtained from the Government that the consultants
and counterpart staff employed to prepare the master plan would have exper-
ience, qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Draft terms
of reference for the master plan are given in Annex 6. It would be a condition
of disbursement against the cost of finalizing the master plan that IDA and
the Government had reached agreement on the draft master plan including the
draft terms of reference for preparing investment proposals. An assurance
was also obtained that Government would submit to IDA within six months of
the date of credit signature, satisfactory details and proposed arrangements
to carry out the annual surveys of the pilot and second resettlement projects.
C.   Organization and Management
3.13      Settlement Program.  Two factors have arisen since STN was estab-
lished that indicate that it should not expand its field activities now.
These concern the evidence of the limited scope for resettlement in Eastern
Senegal, and the establishment of SODEFITEX as a Senegalese extension agency
with the ability to provide services to farmers and settlers alike throughout
Eastern Senegal (para 2.31).
3.14      Government intends to establish a regional development agency for
Eastern Senegal, but has not finalized its plans for the agency nor decided
the future roles of STN and SODEFITEX in the region. However, as STN will
continue to be responsible for resettlement, it would have primary responsi-
bility for implementing the project. As for the pilot project, STN would
recruit and transport settlers; install settlers in new and existing villages;
provide tools and payments for land clearing, subsistence allowances and agri-
cultural credit on behalf of BNDS; and arrange for mechanical land clearing
and for the construction of wells, roads, tracks, stores, classrooms and staff
housing. During the first year of the project while Government considers its
plans for a regional development agency, STN would obtain assistance from
SODEFITEX to provide settlers with agricultural extension services. For this
purpose, it would sign a contract with terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. At the end of this contract, Government would review and agree
with the Association arrangements for continuing agricultural extension
services to settlers. The review would take account of Government's latest
plans for a regional development agency and of the effectiveness of the con-
tract between STN and SODEFITEX. Future arrangements would not preclude a
renewal of this contract should this be considered the most effective solution
for the project. It would be a condition of effectiveness that STN and
SODEFITEX had signed a contract covering the provision of agricultural exten-
sion services for the first project year.
3.15      Staffing for the Settlement Program.  STN's technical director,
based in Dakar, would have overall responsibility for project implementation.
He would be supported by a project manager with headquarters at Koumpentoum
and a recruitment officer in the Groundnut Basin (Fatick). An assurance was
obtained from Government that the project manager would have experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA. STN's other project staff would comprise
settlement officers who would be attached to new villages for two years. These



- 16 -
field workers would be responsible for allocating holdings, supplying food
and building materials, making payments for land clearing, supervising credit
and groundnut marketing, working with settlers and ONCAD on the formation of
cooperatives to take over STN's credit and marketing operations (para 4.06),
and for removing delinquent settlers from their holdings. The project's
extension staff would come under SODEFITEX's chief for the Maka sector during
PY1, and SODEFITEX would provide a field extension worker for every 50 settler
families, an extension supervisor for every 300 families, and a livestock
officer. The extension responsibilities would comprise preparing farm plans,
including the siting of windbreaks, fertilization regimes, crop rotations;
and crop management practices; determining input requirements; and supervising
settlers' agricultural activities. In addition, SODEFITEX's project staff
would be responsible for supplying inputs for cotton production and for cotton
seed marketing (para 4.06). Any other arrangement for agricultural extension
services after PY1 would involve similar staffing and responsibilities.
3.16      Studies and Surveys.  Since neither STN nor SODEFITEX are equipped
to carry out the project's surveys and studies, the Ministry of Planning would
be responsible for preparing the regional master plan. For this purpose and
to evaluate annual results of the ongoing resettlement projects, it would
employ an economist, an agronomist and a rural works engineer, who are expect-
ed to be qualified and experienced Senegalese, along with a team of consultants
comprising a team leader/economist, a rural works engineer, an agronomist, a
livestock specialist, a soil surveyor, and specialists in marketing and agricul-
tural surveys.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A.  Cost Estimates
4.01      Project cost is estimated at US$3.41 million net of taxes.  Total
project cost, including US$0.53 million in taxes, would be US$3.94 million,
as presented in detail in Annex 7 and summarized in the following table:



- 17-                                                %
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total       Foreign Exchange
---      CFAF Million--      ---      US$ Millioon------
1. Resettlement
A.  Civil Works
Mechanical land clearing                4.5        40.5      45.o     0.02       0.18      0.20              65
Wells                                   33.2       27.2      60.4     0.15       0.12      0.27              44
Buildings                              18.1        14.8      32.9     0.08       o.o6      0.14              43
Roads                                   44.8       14.9      59.7     0.20       0.07      0.27              26
Subtotal                              100.6        97.4     198.0     0.45      0.43       0.88              49
B.  V_hicles & Equipent
Land Clearing Tool:.                    2.2         2.1       4.3     0.01       0.01      0.02              5°
Vehicles                                 6.2        7.5      13.7     0.03       0.03      0.06              50
8ubtotal                                8.14        9.6      18.0     0.04      0.04       0.08              50
C.  3alaries, Operating Expenses
Salaries                               89.5        -         89.5     0.40        -        0.40              -
STN Operating Expenses                 28.1        18.8      46.9     0.13      o.o8       0.21              38
Maintenance of Roads and Buildingo       8.2        3.5      11.7     0.04       0.01      0.05              20
3ibtotsl                              125.8        22.3     148.1     0.57      0.09       0.66              14
D.  Settler Recruitment and Installation
Recruitment                              0.4        -         0.4     0.01        -        0.01
Transport                              10.9         2.7      13.6     0.05       0.01      o.o6             17
Allowmances                             65.9        -        65.9     0.29        -        0.29             -
Subtotal                               77.2         2.7      79.9     0.35       0.01      0.36              3
E. Incremental On-farm Costs
Fertilizer, Seeds, Insecticides         45.0       21.2      66.2     0.20       0.09      0.29             31
Draft Oxen and Implements               28.1       18.7      46.8      0.13      o.o8      0.21             38
Upkeep Oxen and Implements              12.5        3.7      16.2     0.05       0.02      0.07             29
3ubtotal                               85.6        43,6    129.2      0.38       0.19      o.57             33
Base Cost Settlement Component         397.6      175.6    573.2    1079         0.76      2.55             30
Il. Regional Plan
Salaries (Local staff)                 12.0         -        12.0     0.05        -        0.05              -
Consultants                              -         70.8      70.8      -         0,32      0.32            100
Base Cost Regional Plan                 12.0       70.8      82.8    0,05        0,32      0.37             86
Project Base Cost                     409.6       24L.4     656,0     1.84      1.08       2.92            37
Physical Contingencies (8%)             44.8       26.3      71.1    0.20        0.12      0.32            38
Expected Price Increases (18%)        107.6        50.6     158.6     o.48       0.22      0.70            31
Total Project Cost                    562.0       323.3    885.3      2.52       1.42      3.94            36



- 18 -
Cost estimates are based on mid-1975 prices. A physical contingency of 15%
has been allowed on civil works, and 10% on vehicles and hand tools for manual
land clearing. A physical contingency of 100% has been included for mechanical
land clearing. This contingency is required to cover the possibility that
clearing would be done on contract instead of on force account as proposed by
Government (para 3.08). A total price contingency of 18% is included for
expected price inflation on both local and foreign costs, including physical
contingencies, and comprises 14% in 1976, and 12% in 1977 on civil works; and
10% in 1976 and 8% in 1977 and 1978 on all other project items. Costs include
a foreign exchange component of US$1.42 million, equivalent to 36% of the
total project cost.
B.   Proposed Financing
4.02      The project financing plan would be as follows:
Government   IDA   BNDS   Settlers  Total
---- ---- --   - --  US$  -000
I.   Resettlement Component
Mechanical Land Clearing           40.0    160.0    -          -     200.0
Civil Works                       136.0    544.0    -          -     680.0
Vehicles and Land Clearing Tools  32.0       48.0    -         -      80.0
Salaries                           78.0    318.0    -          -     396.0
STN Operating Expenses            210.0       -      -         -     210.0
Maintenance of Roads and
Buildings                         50.0       -      -         -      50.0
Settler Recruitment and Ins-
tallation                        360.0       -      -         -     360.0
Incremental On-farm Costs         121.0       -     379.0    70.0   570.0
Sub-total                       1,027.0  1,070.0   379.0    70.0 2,546.0
II. Regional Plan and Investment
Proposals
Salaries (Local staff)             12.0      42.0    -         -      54.0
Consultants                         -       320.0    -         -     320.0
Sub-total                          12.0    362.0    -          -     374.0
III. Contingencies                     345.2    568.0    91.8    15.0 1,020.0
Total Financing                 1,384.2  2,000.0   470.8    85.C 3.940.0
% of Total Project Financing       35.0      51      12        2     100
4.03      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$2.0 million (59% of project
costs net of taxes) be made to Government on standard terms.  The credit



- 19 -
would cover the foreign exchange costs (US$1.42 million) and US$580,000 or
23% of local currency costs. The remaining 77% of local currency costs
totalling US$1.94 million would be met from Government budgetary allocations
(US$1.38 million), by BNDS (US$0.47 million), and by settlers (US$0.09 million).
4.04      The IDA credit together with most of Government's contribution would
be deployed as follows:
(a)  CFAF 445.1 million (US$1.98 million) as a grant to STN to
cover the cost of civil works (CFAF 153.0 million), mechanical
land clearing (CFAF 45.0 million), vehicles and land clearing
tools (CFAF 18.0 million), salaries and operating expenses
(CFAF 148.1 million), and settler recruitment and installation
(CFAF 81.0 million);
(b)  CFAF 82.8 million (US$0.37 million) for the Ministry of
Planning for the regional plan to cover the costs of
consultants (CFAF 70.8 million) and counterpart staff
(CFAF 12.0 million); and
(c) CFAF 205.3 million (US$0.91 million) as an unallocated reserve.
Incremental on-farm costs would be financed as follows: Government would
provide CFAF 27.2 million (US$0.12 million) in the form of fertilizer subsidy;
BNDS would finance short and medium-term credit expected to total CFAF 105.8
million (US$0.47 million); and settlers would contribute the equivalent of
CFAF 19.1 million (US$0.09 million) representing the upkeep for oxen and
implements.
4.05      Implementation of the pilot project was almost halted by Government's
delays in providing finance for project activities (para 2.24). To ensure
that a similar situation will not reoccur, the Government's financing proce-
dures for the second project were reviewed during negotiations and Government
has submited details of financing arrangements for the project that are satis-
factory to IDA. It would be a condition of effectiveness that all Government
instructions required to implement the agreed procedures had been issued.
C.   Credit Arrangements
4.06      Under the pilot project, STN was responsible for credit management,
input supplies and marketing for crops other than cotton. Cotton inputs
were financed and cotton was marketed under a national package program intro-
duced by CFDT and now managed by SODEFITEX. These arrangements have worked
satisfactorily and would be continued for the second project for the first
two years of a settler's installation. During this period, however, STN
would work with representatives of ONCAD and the settlers to establish coope-
ratives that would enable settlers to participate in PA (para 2.06), and thus
eliminate the need for STN to maintain a long involvement in providing credit
to settlers. The Government has not worked out the details for transferring
STN's responsibilities for input supply, credit and marketing to cooperatives



- 20 -
for either the pilot or the second project, and an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that it would consult IDA on the details for the transfer
during the first year of project implementation.
4.07      In the meantime, BNDS would channel credit to settlers through STN.
Requirements for the four-year project period for short-term credits for
fertilizers, seeds and insecticide and for medium-term credits for draft oxen
and implements would total CFAF 105.8 million (US$0.47 million). STN would
guarantee repayments as long as it maintains control of groundnut marketing
(para 4.06). STN would also be responsible for determining the values and
collecting repayments of the long term credits for mechanical land clearing.
In line with Governnent's policy of maintaining interest rates at levels
attractive to private investors, all credits would bear interest at 2% above
the Central Bank rediscount rate (currently 5.5%), the prevailing rate charged
by BNDS. Seasonal loans would be repaid in 9 months and medium-term loans
over a maximum of 5 years with a minimum grace period of one year. Long-term
loans would be repaid over 10 to 15 years with a grace period up to 3 years.
Assurances were obtained from Government that it would cause BNDS to provide
the short- and medium-term credit funds required by the project, that all
loans to settlers would be on the above terms and conditions, and that these
would not be changed without consultation with IDA.
D.   Procurement
4.08      Most expenditures for project buildings, roads, wells, mechanical
land clearing, vehicles and equipment, totalling about US$1.7 million, would
be spread over three years and would include a variety of items that prevent
bulking to make contracts attractive to international bidders. Contracts
for three wells required in 1975 totalling US$0.1 million, would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Because of their small number and
the high cost of works undertaken by local contractors alternative arrangements
would be followed for the other items: feeder roads and village access tracks
(US$0.6 million) would be constructed and improved by the Ministry of Works
or by the Army Engineering Corps; six wells would be constructed and 15
improved (US$0.3 million) by Government's well building brigades; low cost.
vi-llage stores and junior staff housing (US$0.2 million) would be constructed
with direct labor employed and materials purchased by STN; and mechanical
land cleargn3 (US$0.5 million) would be carried out on force current using
Governnient  -i .eî ~ad operated equipment.  Contracts for vehicles and equipment
(US$0.1 Million) would be awarded on the basis of local suppliers' quotations.
Farm inputs (US$0.6 million) would be supplied by ONCAD. The remaining project
costs comprise personnel and management expenditures (US$0.8 million) and
grants and allowances to settlers (US$0.4 million), that would be unsuîtable
for competitive bidding. Consultant services (US$0.3 million) would be
obtained according to IDA's normal procedures.
E.   Disbursements
4.09      The proceeds of tcie IDA credit would be disbursed to cover:



- 21 -
(a) 80% of the total cost of civil works -- US$544,000;
(b) 60% of the local cost of vehicles and manual land clear-
ing tools, or if they are imported directly for the proj-
ect, 100% of the foreign exchange cost -- US$48,000;
(c) 80% of the total cost of mechanical land clearing -
US$160,000;
(d) 80% of total personnel costs for STN and SODEFITEX --
US$318,000;
(e) 100% of the foreign cost of consultant services -- US$320,000;
and
(f) 80% of the total personnel costs incurred by the Ministry of
Planning for the studies, and development plan for Eastern
Senegal -- US$42,000.
US$568,000 would be held unallocated. Disbursements would be against con-
tracts, invoices and certified statements of work performed and services
rendered by STN, SODEFITEX and the Ministrv of Planning. A provision of
US$30,000 under consultant services for a health survey is included under
(e) above. It would be a condition of disbursement against this item that
details for the survey had been approved bv IDA. Any funds remaining undis-
bursed upon completion of the project would be cancelled.   A quarterly dis-
bursement schedule for the IDA credit is in Annex 8.
F.   Accounts and Audit
4.10      STN would keep records consistent with sound accounting practices
and adequate to reflect its operations and financial conditions and would
employ independent auditors. Assurances were obtained that STN would:
(a) appoint auditors with qualifications, experience and terms
of reference acceptable to IDA;
(b) maintain separate accounts for the project; and
(c) submit project accounts and the auditors' reports
thereon to IDA within four months of the end of
the financial year.
During negotiations of the pilot project (Credit 254-SE), assurances were
obtained that, in addition to any Government auditing, STN accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that copies of the
audited accounts and the auditor's reports would be submitted to IDA within
four months of the close of each financial year. STN's accounts up to
September 30, 1974, have been audited by Government's audit commission and
the final accounts and audit report have been submitted to IDA. STN has



- 22 -
appointed an independent firm of auditors, satisfactory to IDA, to audit its
accounts in 1975.
V. YIELDS, OUTPUT, PRICES, SETTLER INCOMES, AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
A. Yields and Output
5.01      Settlers are expected to develop their crop yields as follows:
Yield kg/ha
Second Project               Pilot Project
(estimate)                   (actual)
PY 1       PY 5         PY         PY 1      PY 2
Seed Cotton                       -       1,200         1,500       820         930
Unshelled groundnuts             900      1,300         1,500    1,100        1,340
Maize                          1,200      1,800         2,000        -           -
Sorghum/Millet                   700      1,200         1,500       500         700
Yield estimates are based on results of the pilot project (Annex 2), and are
well below the levels attained at research stations. At full development, the
total annual incremental production of the project would be about 1,500 ton
of seed cotton, 2,800 ton of unshelled groundnuts, 1,650 ton of maize, and
1,822 ton of millet and sorghum (Annex 9).
B.   Markets and Prices
5.02      The incremental production of groundnuts, cereals, and cotton
would be very small in relation to Senegal's total output of these crops.
Consequently, project production would have an insignificant impact on the
mnarkets.
5.03      Cereals.  Marketing arrangements for domestically produced cereals
are poor, and the organized trade is concerned mostly with the annual distrib-
ution of some 300,000 to 400,000 tons of imported wheat and rice in urban
areas. Domestic cereal production has, however, been given a sharp boost
by recent increases of grain prices on the world market and the withdrawal
in November, 1974 of consumer subsidies on imported rice. All domestically
produced cereals are expected to have a ready local market. To help promote
increased self-sufficiency in cereals, Government intends to improve market-
ing arrangements and funds for a cereal marketing study have been included
in the Sine Sa'oum project (para 1.04). The official farmgate price for mil-
let and sorghum is CFAF 30/kg and for maize CFAF 35/kg. These prices are
equivalent to their current economic value based on import substitution (Annex
10, Tables 1 and 2). Project financial calculations have, however, been based
conservatively on 1980 import substitution prices of CFAF 28/kg for millet
and sorghum, and CFAF 30/kg for maize.



- 23 
5.04      Groundnuts.  ONCAD has a marketing monopoly for groundnuts and all
project output would have a ready local or export market. However, between
1975 and 1980, world market prices for groundnuts in 1974 terms are expected
to fall from about US$410 to about US$270/ton. Current farmgate prices are
CFAF 41.5/kg, and when production subsidies are taken into account, represent
an effective tax rate of about 36% on farmers. But in line with the sharp
decline expected in world market prices and to maintain adequate Government
revenues, it is expected that farmgate prices will have to decline in 1974
terms to about CFAF 27/kg by 1980, and this price has been used for the
project's financial projections (Annex 10, Table 3).
5.05      Cotton.  SODEFITEX has a marketing monopoly for cotton and there
would be a ready domestic or export market for all project output. During
the boom in commodity prices in 1974, world market prices for cotton fiber
were USe83.6/lb and seed about US$160/ton, and in response to the improved
prices, Government raised the official farmgate price for seed cotton from
CFAF 30/kg in 1973 to CFAF 46.5/kg in 1974. Even so, the effective tax rate
on farmers is about 45%. However, by 1980, world prices for fiber and seed
are expected to fall in 1974 terms to USé52/lb and US$140/ton respectively.
As a result, it is expected that Government revenues will fall in an effort
to maintain the producer price in real terms at its current level, and to
keep the taxation rates on cotton and groundnuts at similar levels. Project
financial projections have been based, therefore, on a farmgate price con-
tinuing at CFAF 46.5/kg (Annex 10, Table 4).
C.   Settler Incomes
5.06      Because of their poor circumstances, the majority of settlers
would have very low pre-project incomes, certainly below the average per
capita income for the departure area, and would be dependent on relatives
and friends for their subsistence. For these families, the project would
provide income opportunities that otherwise would be unobtainable. Based on
the farm budgets in Annex 11, farm production of settlers in new villages,
including food consumed by the family, would be worth CFAF 93,000 (US$410)
in the first year of settlement, and would rise to CFAF 286,000 (US$1,315)
within ten years. For settlers moving to existing villages, production would
rise from CFAF 81,000 (US$310) in the first year, to CFAF 250,000 (US$1,100)
within ten years. Over the ten year period, the equivalent per capita in-
comes in new villages would increase from US$82 to US$132; for settlers mov-
ing to existing villages they would increase from US$70 to US$110. During
this period, settler families are expected to increase from 5 to 10 members,
mainly as a result of the continued migration of close relatives from the
departure area. The equivalent present day average figure for similar types
of farms in the departure area is CFAF 15,000 (US$70) and for the country
CFAF 19,000 (US$85). Income per work day including the value of subsistence
would rise from about CFAF 166 (USe74) in first year of settlement to about
CFAF 300 (US$1.30) after 10 years. These earnings compare favorably with
rates of about CFAF 150 a day for hired labor in the departure zone. Hence
the project would provide adequate incentives for settlers particularly as
many wouild have few alternative work opportunities, no land, and pre-project
incomes well below the average for the departure zone.



- 24 -
D.   Government Revenues
5.07      The Government would derive incremental revenues from surpluses
accruing to the price stabilization funds for groundnuts and cotton, and its
cash flow attributable to project activities would show a positive cumulative
balance in about 11 years (Annex 12). Deficits in the early years would
result mostly from investments in infrastructure, and from allowances and
supervision costs for settlers, and would be highest in PY 1 when it would
total CFAF 143.8 million (US$0.6 million). Costs borne by Government would
total about CFAF 734,000 (US$3,260) per family, equivalent to a per capita
cost of US$326.  Government's expenditures can be divided in:  (a) those
associated with general agricultural support activities that are not normally
recovered through direct taxes, and (b) other expenditures specific to the
project that could be considered for direct recovery. The breakdown of
Government costs into these categories is summarized in the following table:
Expenditures of the Type
Normally Not Recovered by Expenditures Specific
Project                     Direct Taxes                to the Project        Total
------------ CFAF '000/Settler Family ----------------
Roads, water supplies,
schools, and health
facilities                   320.0                                            320.0
Agricultural Extension         53.0                           -                53.0
Settler Management              -                         200.0               200.0
Settler Allowances              -                         161.0               161.0
Total                   373.0                        361.0              734.0
Since settler families would have pre-project incomes lower than the average
for rural families (para 5.06), they would not be in a position to contribute
to project costs during the early years of resettlement, but would, to the
contrary, require support while they develop their holdings. The income op-
portunities and security for a livelihood offered by the project are attrac-
tive, but even so, incomes of CFAF 25,000 -CFAF 29,000 (US$110-130) per
capita after 10 years would be well below the present per capita GDP (para
2.01) and in line with average incomes in the rural sector. Consequently,
direct cost recovery from settlers for infrastructure development would not
be justified on the grounds of income distribution, and moreover, would not
be needed for Government to recover its costs since this would be achieved
through the surpluses derived from the crop stabilization fund within 11 years.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project's direct benefits would be the increased agricultural
output described in para 5.01 that would provide improved livelihoods for the
6,000 members of settler families, and a net contribution of about CFAF 300



- 25 -
million (US$1.3 million) annually to Senegal's foreign exchange earnings.
The project roads, water supply and social infrastructure improvements would
also benefit about 10,000 members of existing farm families in the project
area. As other benefits not taken into account in the rate of return, the
project would help to diversify agricultural output by promoting cotton, and
to reduce crop failures by raising output from a part of Senegal that is less
prone to drought than most other areas already under cultivation (para 2.27).
6.02      The economic rate of return would be about 14%.  The calculation
is based on the Bank's price projections for groundnuts, cotton and cereals.
Costs include all expenditures on infrastructures, settler recruitment, trans-
portation, installation, supervision, farm inputs and family labor costed at
the value of production of a family engaged in subsistence agriculture. When
family labor is costed at zero the rate of return is 20%. Benefits take
account of the probability of a drought occurring in 1 out of 4 years. An
overall reduction of benefits of 25%, or an increase in capital costs of 15%
would lower the rate of return respectively by 7 and 3 percentage points
(Annex 13, Table 2). In view of the experience gained in the pilot project,
the risk that benefits would fall by 25% is low unless world market prices
fall much more than expected, and cost overruns are unlikely to exceed 15%.
Therefore, the project is expected to have a satisfactory rate of return.
6.03      The project's pre-investment activities would permit the Government
to make detailed plans for the development of Eastern Senegal for the period
1980-85. They would make a realistic assessment of the scope for resettlement
in Senegal and would determine the extent of the threat to the region posed by
riverblindness. Without information on these issues, there is a probability
that much effort and investment may be misdirected and a high risk that the
region's resources and potential -- particularly the potential inherent in its
relatively good rainfall, which in Senegal is a valuable resource -- would not
be developed effectively.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with Government that:
(a) it would cause STN to remove from the project those settlers
who failed to respect the terms of their contracts (para 3.04);
(b) the classrooms would be staffed and maintained by the
Ministry of Education (para 3.05);
(c)  it would submit proposed road standards to IDA for comments
and agreement, and the new roads and tracks would be maintain-
ed by the Ministry of Works (para 3.06);
(d) the consultants and counterpart staff employed to prepare
the master plan would have experience, qualifications and



- 26 
terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and Government would
submit satisfactory details and proposed arrangements to
carry out the annual surveys for the pilot and second
resettlement projects to IDA within 6 months of the date of
credit signature (para 3.12);
(e)  the project manager would have experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA (para 3.15);
(f)  it would consult IDA on the details for the transfer of
STN's credit and marketing responsibilities to cooperatives
during the first year of project implementation (para 4.06);
(g)  it would cause BNDS to provide the farm credit funds required
by the project and make all loans to settlers on specified
terms and conditions, and not to change the terms and condi-
tions of the loans without consulting IDA (para 4.07); and
(h)  it would cause STN to make accounting and auditing arrangements
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.10).
7.02      Condition of effectiveness would be that:  (a) STN had signed an
agreement with SODEFITEX satisfactory to IDA to provide agricultural extension
services to settlers(para 3.14); and (b) all Government instructions necessary
to implement the agreed financial procedures for the project had been issued
(para 4.05).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  against the cost of finalizing the master plan, that IDA and
the Government had reached agreement on the draft master plan
including the draft terms of reference for preparing investment
proposals (para 3.12); and
(b)  against the provision of US$30,000 for a health survey, that
details for the survey had been approved by IDA (para 4.09).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$2.0 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
FINANCED BY THE BAN,K GROUP
Cr. No. 140    First Agricultural Credit Project; US$6.0 Million and
Ln. -o. 584    US$3.5 Million
Credit of February 10, 1969 and Loan of same date (cancelled);
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
1.        The credit is almost fully disbursed.
Or. No. 252    Casamance Rice Project; US$3.7 Million
Credit of June 19, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
2.        Good management and adequate rainfall during the last campaign
ensured good crops for groundnut and rice, which are well above appraisal
estimates. The number of farmers participating in the project is expanding
at a faster pace than anticipated and their response is good. Housing and
offices will be commissioned by June 1975, six months behind schedule. The
road improvement proiram is in progress, but most of the improvement of
bottomland for rice cultivation probably will not be implemented, because
of lack of funds and of technical expertise. The project has incurred some
cost overruns, mainly because extension staff were increased to cope with
good farmers' response, and because of salary increases. In addition, changes
in the USS exchange rate will cause a loss equivalent to US$900,000. As a
result, the project will be short of funds at the end of 1975, instead of 1976.
Government has asked the Bank Group to finance a new project in the same area
starting early 1976. Terms of reference for the preparation of this second
project have been agreed upon by Government and IDA and the feasibility study
report is being prepared by the project management unit. RMWA is coordinating
preparation, and appraisal is tentativelv scheduled for September 1975.
Cr. No. 254    Terres Neuves Settlement Project; US$1.35 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
3.        The project's settlement program was completed in 1974 as anticipated
at appraisal. Adequate and evenly distributed rainfall ensured good crops
iast season. The project has been successful in providing higher incomes than
expected for settlers and has attracted more active people than anticipated in
1974. STN (the State Corporation in charge of the project) has taken over
project management from the management agency agreed upon at appraisal. This
change, together with personnel shifts, have caused managerial and adminis-
trative problems that are not yet solved. The project's accounts have been



ANNEX 1
Page 2
audited recently. Government's contribution to project costs has been paid
in full, and the previous financial difficulties encountered by the project
are now overcome.
Cr. No. 350    River Polders Project; USS4.5 Million
Credit of January 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
4.        The Credit bacame effective in June 1973.  Procurement is now
completed for the main components of the project and contracts have been
awarded. Construction of works is progressing satisfactorily. The Senegalese
authorities requested that the Debi/Lampsar components of the project be
deleted from Credit 350-SE and be reformulated within the broader framework of
integrated development of the Senegal River Basin. The proposed reformulation
was agreed upon by IDA and an engineering project for Debi/Lampsar was
appraised in December 1974 and approved by the Board in April 1975 (para 8).
Because of price increases and US dollar devaluation, the proceeds of Credit
350-SE will not be sufficient to cover the project as appraised, despite the
deletion of the Debi/Lampsar component. The project authority, SAED (Societe
d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta), is presently seeking a
suplementary financing of about US$1.2 million to complete the project.
Cr. No. 404    Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$8.2 Million
Credit of June 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
5.        The 1974/75 campaign was good.  Groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest level since 1969, about 50% over the 1973/74 production
level. Demand for medium-term credit remains stronger than anticipated, but
available credit funds would be sufficient to cover requirements for the next
campaign. The subsidy on fertilizer has not been reduced, as required, but
the scheduled study under the Credit should provide a basis for policy review.
Major organizational and financial problems still exist at ONCAD despite
technical assistance provided since 1969. Government has taken steps to
remedv this serious situation by giving ONCAD management more financial auto-
nomy and by strengthening it with qualified accountants.
Cr. No. 446-SE Drought Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of December 7,
1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
6.        The project is part of the Sengalese plan to help people in drought
affected areas to re-establish their self-sufficiency by assisting themn to
redevelop and improve their farms and lands. The credit became effective in
Februarv 1974. All sub-project plans have been approved by the Association.
Orders were placed in late 1973 for all project items, most of the equipment
is already in place and initial delays in disbursements should be reversed
shortlv.
Cr. No. 549-SE       Sine Saloum Agricultural Development, US$7.0 million
Ln. No. 1113-SE      Loan of Ma   2  1975 and
US$7.0 million Credit of same date
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
7.        This project, due to start in 1976, aims at increasing and



ANNEX 1
Page 3
diversifying agricultural production in the Sine Saloum region through the
reinforcement of SODEVA's activities.
Cr. No. S-18-SE      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit,
US$1.0 million Credit of May 22, 1975;
Closing Date: September 2, 1975
8.        The credit finances the execution of the engineering studies needed
for the implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme.  With provision
for retroactive financing, the studies have been initiated.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PILOT PROJECT RESULTS
A.   Background
1.        STN employed ORSTOM to monitor and evaluate project progress, and
results are available for the first two project years. These cover two
croppîng seasons and the recruitment and installation of 150 settlers.
B.   Settler Recruitment
2.        STN encountered difficulties in the first two years to recruit
the settlers called for by appraisal targets. The recruitment campaigns
were run by a Government administration officer in the heavily populated
Fatick district of the 'Groundnut Basin' and were backed fully by the local
administration and news and broadcasting media. The main cause of difficul-
ties was the reluctance of potential migrants to move to Eastern Senegal
because they did not know how or whether the project would work, because of
rumors of the dangers of living in the project area, and perhaps most im-
portantly, the hostility initially expressed by relatives to the concept of
migration and the breakup of families in the departure areas. Nevertheless,
as a result of the publicity campaigns sufficient settlers were recruited,
but with no chance for selection, with delays in installation, and a feeling
on the part of the settlers that they were carrying out a service for their
country rather than the reverse.
3.        The recruitment picture has improved substantially and the 150
settlers settled in the third year of the project were recruited with little
difficulty. The main reason for the change was the information on the pro-
ject spread by settlers and theîr relatives among the population of the
departure areas, in particular on the good results of the first and second
cropping seasons, and satisfaction in general expressed about the project's
organization.  Of the 108 settlers installed in 1973, 71 had learned of the
project through friends and relatives, and the only adverse information con-
cerned the lack of school and health facilities and the failure of the water
supplies (para 14).
4.        Since most potential migrants have only temporary land rights, work
for other families, and have low incomes, they tend to drift away from the
places they live and work during the cropping season to live off friends and



ANNEX 2
Pgge 2
relatives in other rural areas and towns during the dry season. As a conse-
quence, it was found that many potential migrants who had contacted authori-
ties in the cropping season, could not be found for transport late in the dry
season (February to April), and recruitment would be facilitated by trans-
porting settlers in January.
C.   Composition of Settler Families
5.        The maîority of settlers are from the Serer tribe (87% in 1973) and
are from among the least tradition and caste bound families. The average
family size was the equivalent of 4.3 people in 1972 and of 5.7 people in
1973. In most cases, close family members remained in the departure areas
in the expectation of joining the family at a later date.
6.        0f the 108 families recruited for the project in 1973, 82 had al-
ready moved from their place of birth in search of work. Of these, 52 had
spent some time in towns (29 in Dakar) living off friends and relatives and
sometimes taking low paid jobs. Most of the settlers who had always lived
in rural areas were sourgas (bachelors or yotng married men who depend on
relatives for land, housing and food in return for their labor). Ninety-
nine heads of families had worked on farms the year before they were re-
cruited, mostly on poor land borrowed for the season or as sourgas. For
nearly all settler families, the opportunities to farm their own land and
increase their incomes were the most important motivations to migrate.
D.   Social Development of New Villages
7.        The only serious social problem that has occurred and remains
unresolved concerns the selection of village chiefs. Except for one village,
where the chief is a former chief, there has been friction and rivalry among
factions in selecting a chief. In the most serious case, a village has been
split into two with a chief in each section. Traditionally, under spontaneous
migration, the chief is the head of the first family to settle on the land,
however, under organized settlement a conflict has occurred between the tra-
ditionalists and those settlers who wish to follow democratic processes to
elect a chief. Over time, however, the rivalries are decreasing and each
village is seeking its own solution. The main impact of conflicts for the
project is the lack of leadership that could be used to further project
implementation.
8.        In contrast to the lack of cohesion among males, settlers' wives
have formed a cohesive group. They continue traditions from the Sine Saloum,
and work together in their demands for women's rights, and in agricultural
and social activities. Their cohesion is not restricted to the village, but
includes all new villages and links with wives of established farmers. An
important initial complaint of the women concerned the allocation of land
for their own crops. Family heads were reluctant to allocate cleared land



ANNEX 2
Page 3
to their wives, but following an ultimatum from the wives that they would
leave the project, family heads provided them with fields, agreed to clear
land for them and STN provided women with their own seed.
9.        The issue of land allocation also arose over the sourgas.  As with
their wives, family heads were reluctant to give cleared land to sourgas for
their own crops. Consequently, some sourgas brought from the departure area
left their original family head to work for other families, to work in nearby
villages, or returned to their villages. The issue has been important only
in the first year of settlement, because of the restricted area of cleared
land provided for each family, and has been resolved by the second year when
sourgas have had a chance to clear their own fields. The land requirements
for sourgas and the militancy of the women have been the main impetus behind
the rapid land clearing that has taken place.
10.       Family Ties.  All settler families have maintained close ties with
relatives, either through visits to Fatick or visits to Terres Neuves. The
motivation for the visits has been to obtain news, to give money and food to
relatives in Fatick, or a celebration or death. The success of the project
can be measured by the fact that the transfers of food and money have been
mostly from the migrants to Fatick rather than in the opposite direction,
and transport bringing new settlers is always filled for the return trip
with produce from the project. Despite these ties, the settlers are beginning
to consider Terres Neuves as their permanent home, as shown by the fact that
the traditional celebrations after harvests are increasingly held in Terres
Neuves rather than with relatives in Fatick. After the first harvest, nearly
ail the families returned to Fatick, but after the second year, 58 of the 148
families in the project held harvest celebrations in the new villages.
i1.       Relations Between Established Farmers and Settlers.  Relations have
been good, and established farmers have welcomed the project, because of the
promise of increased commercial activity. The ties, however, have not been
limited to the commercial level, as established farmers have loaned fallow
land to settlers to grow cereals, and have helped settlers cultivate their
land. For their part, settlers have helped established farmers with cropping
activities and the only significant friction has occurred when herds of the
traditional pastoralists (Peuls) have damaged settler crops.
E.   Project Implementation
12.       Infrastructure Development.  The project included the construction
of 65 km of new feeder roads and tracks, the rehabilitation of the Koumpentoum
to Maka road, the construction of a project headquarters, village stores, a
clinic and a school, and the provision of six tubewells or traditional wells
for the new villages. Road construction was carried out by the Ministry of
Works along tracks cleared by a contractor. Forty kilometers of feeder roads
and tracks have been built at an average cost of about US$1,800/km (appraisal



ANNEX 2
Page 4
estimate US$1,000/km). These roads serve the new villages, and have been
constructed satisfactorily, but to a higher specification than required for
village traffic (4m wide and 10 cm gravel surface). No access tracks have
been built to the established villages. The Koumpentoum to Maka road has
been rehabilitated by the Ministry of Works as far as Mereto (50% of the
distance). This improvement meets the needs of the pilot project, and the
rehabilitation of the Mereto to Maka section will not be required for new
settlement villages. Most of the roads were completed several months behind
schedule, but these delays did not in themselves hold up settler installation.
13.       Project headquarters was scheduled for completion in 1972, but due
to delays in funding STN, it was only completed in late 1974, and the project
manager and his deputy were housed in rented accommodations in Koungheul some
40 km from the project area.
14.       Since it had been expected that water supplies would be difficult
because of the depth of water table (60m), provision was made either to build
traditional wells or artesian wells. Since the latter would have cost about
US$40,000, project management recommended tubewells with hand pumps designed
in Senegal costing about US$15,000 per village. The first four villages were
equipped with these pumps, but following frequent breakdowns and unsuccessful
modifications, they are being replaced by a new type of hand pump and supple-
mented for emergency supplies by traditional wells. Since mechanical pumping
equipment costs about US$13,000 per village to install, requires regular
maintenance, and annual operating costs of US$5,000, it was not feasible to
consider mechanical pumps for the project. Therefore, while the new hand
pumps were being tested, the last two villages have been provided with tradi-
tional wells at a cost of US$8,000 each. These wells were constructed under
contract, but the performance of the contractor was unsatisfactory and they
were only completed after a six-month delay. As a result of this delay and
the failures of the pumps in the first four villages, project management has
been obliged to supply water daily to project villages by tank trucks from a
Government operated pump at Mereto.
15.       A project school and clinic planned for 1974 are being built by the
regional medical and education authorities at Mereto and should soon be
operating. These facilities are much sought after by the settlers.
F.   Agricultural Results
16.       Rainfall.  The average rainfall for the project area is about 850 mm,
occurring between May and October, but in 1972, the rainfall was 589 mm and
in 1973, 659 mm. While the rainfall in 1973 exceeded that for 1972, it was
less in June, the critical month for planting, 133 mm against the 201 mm for
1972. Rainfall in the southern Groundnut Basin was about 520 mm in 1972 and
500 mm in 1973.
17.       Agricultural Sample Surveys.  ORSTOM obtained results from all 41
settlers in PY 1, and from a sample of 37 settlers in PY 2. These represented



ANNEX 2
Page 5
25% of all settlers, 27.5% of families installed in 1972, and 24% of families
installed in 1973. The average composition of the families sampled is shown
below:
Adults (14 years and over)            Children
Male        Female         0-5 Years  6-14 Years  Total
Families Installed in 1972  2.0             1.4               1.1          0.8      5.3
Families Installed in 1973  1.8             1.4               1.4          1.0      5.6
18.       Area Cultivated.  In 1973, the area cultivated per family averaged
3.1 ha compared to 2 ha planned at appraisal. The additional cleared areas
were made up mostly of land for wives and sourgas (paras 8 and 9). To take
account of this change, project management recommended the following farm
plans for PY 2:
Groundnuts  Cotton  Millet  Sorghum  Maize  Total
Families Installed in 1972   2.0          0.5      0.5      1.0     0.5    4.5
Families Installed in 1973   0.75         0.25    0.5      0.5       -      2.0
Women                           0.5        -        -        -        -     0.5
Sourgas                         1.0        -        _        _        _     1.0
In fact, the areas cultivated were much larger and were as follows:
Groundnuts  Cotton  Cereals  Total
Families Installed in 1972           3.75       0.31      1.60    5.66
Families Installed in 1973           2.40       0.25    1.59    4.24
As a consequence, the total area under cultivation was about 680 ha compared
with the 400 ha estimated at appraisal. An important reason for the increase
in area cultivated by families installed in 1973 was the help given by the
first settlers to the new settlers. Of the farms sampled, the areas cultivated
ranged from 4.24 ha for a family with 2 adults to 8.37 ha for a family with
6 adults in the case of families installed in 1972, and from 2.45 ha for a
family with 2 adults to 8.39 ha for a family with 5 adults in the case of fami-
lies settled in 1973.
19.       Groundnut Yields.  In 1972, yields of the 41 settlers averaged
1,000 kg/ha, the appraisal target. In 1973, they averaged 1,390 kg/ha for
settlers installed in 1972 and 1,310 kg/ha for settiers installed in 1973.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
The lowest yields were found on fields cultivated by women, which were
generally less well cared for and cleared than fields cultivated by the
family heads and sourgas. Thirteen fields sampled had yields below 500 kg/ha,
and of these, 9 were cultivated by women. Ten fields of family heads had
yields of 2,000 kg/ha, and 63% of all fields exceeded 1,000 kg/ha. The good
results for groundnuts in 1973 was due in part to the rainfall distribution
which was favorable for groundnuts.
20.       Cotton Yields.  The first crops of both groups of settlers yielded
about 820 kg/ha compared with the appraisal target of 1,000 kg/ha. The low
yields reflect the unfamiliarity of the settlers with cotton. For their
second crop, the 1972 settlers obtained average yields of 1,135 kg/ha. Yields
ranged from about 100 kg/ha on some poorly cultivated fields to 2,320 kg/ha on
the best field (0.25 ha).
21.       Cereals.  Yields averaged 410 kg/ha in 1972, but in their second
year, the 1972 group of settlers obtained average yields of 870 kg/ha. For
their first crop, the settlers installed in 1973 obtained average yields of
620 kg/ha. These yields which were well below the 1,000 kg/ha estimated at
appraisal result from using early maturing varieties of millet, not recommend-
ed by the project, and the reluctance of settlers to use fertilizers on their
subsistence crops. Nevertheless, about 30% of the settlers obtained yields
of over 1,000 kg/ha in 1973.
G. Land Clearing
22.       The project provided for clearing 2 ha of land for each family prior
to their installation. In 1971 and 1972, land was cleared under contract
using bulldozers and blades to knock down and clear the trees and vegetation
at a cost of CFAF 90,000/ha (US$400/ha). As an experiment to reduce costs,
a contract was awarded in 1973 to clear land with a chain. The average tree
population is about 1,000/ha (85% with a diameter below 15 cm, 10% between
15 cm and 30 cm, and 5% over 30 cm). The time taken to clear the land was
measured, and as a result, it was estimated that clearing required 3.5 to
4 hours/ha and windrowing 2.5 to 3 hours/ha of tractor time. These results
were obtained in the dry season when the ground was hard, and clearing at
the end of the rainy season would probably reduce the time required by about
2 hours/ha. Overhead charges for transporting the bulldozers, and for hiring
the chain were about CFAF 10,000 (US$45/ha), and the rate per tractor hour,
CFAF 10,000. Thus, the average cost of clearing was CFAF 80,000/ha (US$350).
For a larger contract carried out under favorable conditions, the cost may be
reduced to between 50% and 75% of the costs obtained in this experiment.
Moreover, despite the unfavorable conditions, the standard of chain clearing
was high and superior to that of the previous two years.
H.   Settler Benefits
23.       Subsistence.  The annual cereal requirements for an adult are
between 200 and 250 kg, and average requirements for members of settler



ANNEX 2
Page 7
families are estimated at about 200 kg. In 1972 the first group of settlers
produced an average of 125 kg of cereals/capita, and by the second year their
'production was equivalent to 262 kg/capita. The 1973 group of settlers pro-
duced 174 kg/capita on average, and over 50% produced more than the equivalent
of 200 kg per capita. Therefore, while yields were lower than estimated and
cash sales extremely limited, the project is meeting its targets of making
settlers self-sufficient in cereals.
24.       Cash Earnings.  At appraisal, it was estimated that settler families'
cash incomes would be CFAF 4,951 in PY 1 and CFAF 24,503 in PY 2.  Actual
incomes for the first year of participation in the project were CFAF 34,400
for the group starting in 1972 and CFAF 69,900 for the group starting in 1973,
and second year incomes of the 1972 group were CFAF 110,500. The main reasons
for the substantial increases over appraisal estimates were sharp increases in
producer prices and the increased areas cultivated. The divergence in real
terms will probably decrease as the motivation to clear land declines and as
producer prices, particularly for groundnuts, are allowed to fall with the
expected decline in the world market prices.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES Il RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ONCHOCERCIASIS -/
(River Blindness)
1.        Onchocerciasis is a parasitic disease propagated by a species of
the blackfly, Simulium damnosum, which breeds in the rapids of the so-called
"white water" rivers. The disease occurs in Africa, Yemen, and parts of
Central and South America. Worldwide, about 30 million people are infected.
2.        The disease's principal clinical manifestations are unsightly and
intensely itchy skin rashes, chronic skin manifestations such as elephant's
skin, atrophy and depigmentation, hanging groins and hernia, and a variety of
eye lesions which may culminate in blindness. Some heavily infected patients
have microfilariae in the urine. Chronic weight losses are common among
residents of heavily infected areas.
3.        In the Republic of Senegal, onchocerciasis affects most of the
upper parts of the Senegal River and Gambia River basins. This area is part
of the large Senegal River basin area of onchocerciasis focus which may in-
clude parts of Guinea, The Gambia and Mali as well as Senegal and also
extends, probably with discontinuity, to Guinea-Bissau and to the onchocer-
ciasis foci of the Upper Niger River area.
4.        In Eastern Senegal, some data on onchocerciasis distribution,
prevalence and severity have been collected by field workers of the Ministry
of Health for the Kedougou district and the southern part of the Tambacounda
district.  In these areas, about 40% of the total population has some symptoms
of the disease and indications are that the disease is probably as severe here
as in the Volta River basin area, where an international campaign for oncho-
cerciasis control has started. Experience with the disease in Africa shows
that it can spread relatively rapidly, forcing people to live away from the
1/   This annex is based on the mission's findings, reports prepared by the
"Secteur Special des Grandes Endemies" in Tambacounda, a study on vector
bionomics in Eastern Senegal conducted by the "Organization de Coordina-
tion et de Cooperation pour la Lutte contre les Grandes Endemies" (OCCGE)
and general information provided by WHO and UNDP.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
blackfly breeding grounds. Senegalese authorities have not yet made an evalua-
tion of the impact of the disease in Eastern Senegal. More information is
required on the distribution of the disease and its impact on population
distribution to make meaningful plans for assisting the established popula-
tion and for resettlement.



A.NNEX 4
Page 1
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Settler Recruitment
1.        Settlers would come from the most heavily populated parts of the
Groundnut Basin. They would be recruited in the Fatick district, which was
the recruitment area for the pilot project, and in the M'Bour, Thies, Diourbel
and Louga districts. Recruitment would follow the system developed satis-
factorily for the pilot project. A Government recruitment agent ("Inspecteur
de l'Amenagement du Territoire") would be stationed permanently in the de-
parture area to inform potential migrants of the settlement program. The
recruitment agent would be helped by local officials. Information on the
settlement project would also be given through the national broadcasting
system. Influential leaders in the departure areas, as well as some of the
potential settlers, would be invited to visit the settlers already established
in the project area. However, the most convincing motivation for new candi-
dates has been the good reports on the settlement area made by settlers
already established who return to their departure villages to visit relatives;
hence no difficulties are anticipated in recruiting new settlers at the pro-
posed rate of 200 families a year.
Settler Accommodation
2.        Some 450 families would be settled in nine new villages.  The loca-
tion of these villages has been identified during project preparation. Also,
between 50 and 150 families would be settled in existing villages in the
project area to determine if this could be a feasible resettlement technique.
Established farmers who have been interviewed expressed willingness to accept
settlers to the extent that the number of settler families remains substan-
tially lower than the number of established families. A number of villages
in Eastern Senegal already consist of different tribes, and hence there are
reasonable prospects for this method of settlement.
3.        New villages that accept settlers would also receive simple storage
facilities and would have their access roads and wells rehabilitated. All
settlers would build their houses with local building materials plus materials
valued at CFAF 20,000 provided as a grant by STN.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Subsistence Allowances
4.        Settlers would not be self-sufficient in cereals until the third
year after installation and would need supplementary provisions of food.
Therefore, as under the pilot project, they would receive an allowance of
food from STN valued at CFAF 40,000.
Land Clearing
5.        The Project would mechanically clear two hectares for each of the
settlers that would be installed in the new villages. Clearing and uprooting
would be carried out by force account, according to techniques developed during
the pilot project. In case Government would be unable to clear the land by
force account, the work would be contracted out. The cost is estimated to be
between CFAF 50,000 and CFAF 100,000 per ha. Settlers would repay the cost.
It is estimated that each of these settler families would clear by hand an-
other hectare of land prior to the first cropping season starting in June.
6.        Settlers moving into existing villages would be paid to clear and
uproot their land by hand. STN would provide handtools (mainly axes, picks and
spades) valued in total at CFAF 6,000 per settler. To ensure that clearing
is undertaken on time for the first crop year, part of the settler family
would be installed in January to build a house and to clear 1.5 ha of land
prior to the cropping season starting in June. This clearing would consist
of cutting and burning all surface material and removing the roots of small
trees and would require about 65 mandays per ha.
7.        To encourage settlers moving into existing villages to clear the
land effectively, they would receive a payment of CFAF 8,000/ha for felling
trees and CFAF 12,000/ha for removing stumps, for a total of 2 ha. The
payment would be made only during the first three years of settlement. It
is expected that by the end of the third year after installation in existing
villages a family would have felled the trees on 4.5 ha, of which 1 ha would
be uprooted, and thus would be entitled to a total grant of CFAF 28,000.
As additional incentive for removing stumps, all settlers would be allocated
4 ha of land initially and would be allocated one additional hectare and be
supplied 400 kg of rock phosphate as a grant for each hectare cleared of
roots.
Technical Recommendations
8.        Crop intensificatiorn would be based on a package of measures tested
in the pilot project. The main components of the package would be: (a)
cultivation with draft oxen;(b) improved seed; (c) correct land preparation,
in particular plowing every three or four years; (d) crop rotation; (e) timely
seeding and adequate spacing; (f) application of fertilizer; and (g) timely
and repeated hoeing and weeding.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Cropping Pattern
9.        Settlers installed in new villages would be able to start immediate-
ly intensified cropping on the two hectares of land mechanically cleared and
destumped. During the first year, the settlers moving into existing villages
would cultivate cereals and groundnuts, using traditional cultivation prac-
tices; agricultural intensification would start in the third year, when part
of the holding would be cleared of stumps and roots. The main crops would
be groundnuts and cotton as cash crops, and sorghum and millet as food crops.
The basic rotation would be fallow, cotton, cereals and groundnuts. The
land would be plowed for cotton, and cereals would benefit from the residual
effect of fertilizer applied on cotton.
Selected Seed
10.       Recommended selected varieties would be 57-313 for groundnuts; the
1-1/32" to 1-1/16" fiber length BJA 592 variety for cotton; the long-cycle
51-69 variety for sorghum; the recently released short-cycle Souna 2 variety
for millet; and the JDS or BDS varieties for maize. These varieties have
been developed locally, by the "Institut de Recherche du Coton et des Textiles
Exotiques" (IRCT) for cotton and by the "Institut de Recherches Agronomiques
Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres" (IRAT) for groundnuts and cereals. They
have been successfully tested and have proved to be well adapted to the clima-
tic conditions of the project area. Seed would be used at a rate of 100 kg/ha
for groundnuts, 7 kg/ha for sorghum, 4 kg/ha for millet, and 20 kg/ha for
maize.
Fertilizers
11.       Since the major soil deficiency is phosphorous, the settlers would
apply 400 kg/ha of rock phosphate to each hectare cleared of roots. Project
recommendations for fertilizers would be:
groundnuts           100 kg/ha of 8.18.27
sorghum              150 kg/ha of 10.21.21, plus
100 kg/ha of urea as side dressing
millet               150 kg/ha of 14.7.7
maize           :    300 kg/ha of 8.18.27 plus
100 kg/ha of urea as side dressing
cotton               150 kg/ha of 8.18.27 plus
50 kg/ha of urea as side dressing



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Pest Control
12.       Cotton pest control would involve six sprayings with peprothion
(a mixture of DDT, endosulfan and methyl-parathion) at 12-day intervals,
starting about six weeks after seeding. Cotton seed is supplied treated
with fungicide by SODEFITEX. For crops grown under the intensification pro-
gram, seed would be treated with a fungicide-insecticide mixture (Thiram and
DDT) at the rate of 200 g/100 kg of seed for groundnuts, millet and sorghum,
and 300 g for maize. The maize crop would be treated with 250 g of DDT per
100 kg after harvesting.
Farm Implements
13.       For plowing seeding, ridging and weeding, the settlers would buy
agricultural implements. In the first year, they would buy a tool frame with
hoe and seeder, and in the second or third year when they start intensification
they would buy a plow and ridger. Then in the fifth year, they would buy a
cotton seeder.
Yields
14.       The expected yield development of crops grown under improved techni-
ques is described in the following table:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Year      GN             MI              C               S              Ma
--------------- Tons/ha -----------------
1         0.9            0.7                            -               1.2
2         1.0            0.8             -               1.0            1.3
3         1.1            0.8             1.0             1.2            1.4
4         1.2            0.9             1.1             1.3            1.6
5         1.3            0.9             1.2             1.4            1.8
6         1.35            1.0            1.3             1.5            2.0
7         1.4            1.0             1.4             1.6            2.0
8         1.45            1.1            1.5             1.7            2.0
9         1.5             1.1            1.5             1.8            2.0
10        1.5            1.1             1.5            1.8             2.0
il        1.5            1.2             1.5             1.8            2.0
12        1.5            1.2             1.5             1.8            2.0
13        1.5            1.3             1.5             1.8            2.0
14        1.5            1.4             1.5             1.8            2.0
15        1.5            1.4             1.5             1.8            2.0
GN: groundnuts
MI: millet
C : cotton
S : sorghum
Ma: maize
Ox-traction
15.       The project would continue the development of mixed farming started
in the pilot project through the promotion of ox traction. Settlers would
purchase pairs of oxen on credit, and veterinary care would be provided by the
livestock officer. The extension service would assist farmers in training oxen,
and in assuring adequate feeding by the collection and storage of crop resi-
dues (groundnut hay and cereal stems). The extension services would discourage
the purchase of draft horses and donkeys which are subject to trypanosomiasis
in the area.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SETTLEMENT PROGRAM INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
A.   Water Supplies
1.        The tubewells and experimental hand pumps used for water supply in
four of the villages in the pilot project proved to be unreliable and are
being supplemented by traditional wells. It is therefore proposed that water
for the nine villages in the expanded scheme be provided from traditional
wells. These wells would have a reinforced-concrete shaft of about 2 m in
diameter, and a precast reinforced-concrete gravel filter that would be
covered by at least 5 m of water at the end of the dry season. At the surface
the wells would have a parapet of about 80 cm and a circular reinforced-
concrete surround about 6 m in diameter. Two drinking troughs would be built
for cattle, and the water would be lifted by rope and bucket. In addition to
these new wells, about 15 wells would be rehabilitated in established villages
receiving settlers.
2.        Except for three wells urgently required in 1975 that would be built
on contract, construction and rehabilitation would be carried out by the
Government's well construction brigades on force account. Previous experience
with contractors in the region has been poor, and it is estimated that con-
struction by force would cost about CFAF 3 million (USS13,000) per well, or
about 50% of the costs of contractors.
B.   Roads and Tracks
3.        A 25-km gravel road would be built from Koumpentoum to Massembe.
The road would serve five new villages and about ten existing villages. It
would be 4 m wide and have a 10-cm gravel topping. Seventy-six kilometers
of village access tracks would be provided to link the new villages with the
secondary road network. These would comprise a levelled track, culverts and
gravel infills in low spots. The schedule for road and track building,
together with the estimated costs, is given in Table 1.
4.        The Ministry of Works constructed roads for the pilot project and
its performance was satisfactory. Either this Ministry or the Army's
Engineering Crops would build the roads and tracks for the second project.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
C.   Buildings
5.        Table 2 gives a schedule for buildings.  All buildings would be
low cost and constructed on force account with materials purchased and labor
hired by STN.



&nn0x %
Table 1
SEEL
TERRES NEVES II RESETTLZMENT AN) ESTEN SGAL
TECEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SETTLEMT PRQAM - INFSTRUCTUE
Road eiilndi   Schedule
A. Cspital Costs (CF! t'000)                  tTear
UhIit
Access Tracks                          Cost    1           2         3         4
Extension of              km              1         3
village 4 1/              eost          400    1,200       -         -        _
Access to village- 1 I/   ka              1         4
Cost          40o0   1,600       -         -        -
Access to villages        ian             1        15
8 and 9  /                Cost          1400    6,000      -
Access to villages        mn              1                14
10, 1,l 12 and 13 1/      cost          400      -      5,6o0 0               _
Access to vilage 114 1/  ka               1                10
cost          400      -     4,000         -        _
Access to established    km               1        10      10       10
villages                  coet          400    4,000  14,00    14,000
Total                     kan             1       32      314       10
Gost          400   12,800  13,600    4,000
Gravel Roads
Kowupentoum-Massemibe                                      25 1
Gost          800      -    20
Total Capital Cost                            L2,800  33,600    4jo0o
B. Maintenance Costs (CFAF t'00)
Access tracks             km              1                32       66       76
Coat           30     -         960    1,980    2,280
Gravel roads              kn              1                         25        25
Coat           70          -   -       2        l.75S
Total Mainterance Costs                                                   4,;0  2
1/ Map 1127, for location.



Annex 5
Table 2
SENEGAL
TERRIES NEUVES II RESETTIEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SETTLEMENT PROGRAM - INFRASTRUCTURE
Buildings
Unit                     Year
Buildings                       Cost         1        2         3        4
-__--_-------OCFAF '000---------------
Field Workers         Number       1        3         4         1
houses 1/             Cost       100     300        400      100         -
Warehouses 2/         Number       1        4         4         1
Gost     1,000   4,oo0    4h000    1,000           -
Classrooms 3/        Number        1       3          6        3
Cost     1,500   4,500      9,000    4,5oo         -
Total Capital Cost (CFAF '000)         8,800    13,1400    5,600         -
Maintenance Costs (CFAF '000) 4/         -          440    1,110      1,390
1/  One house for a settlement officer in each new village, 3 houses built
in PY 1 for villages 7, 8 and 9 for a settlement officer, h houses in
PY 2 for villages 10, 11, 12, and 13, 1 house in PY 3 for village 4.
2/ One 100 m2 store in each new village.
3/ Three classrooms would be built in Diam Diam, three in Silame and six
in Massembe.
1V 5% of capital cost.



KNNEX 6
Page 1
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A
REGIONAL PLAN FOR INTEGRATED
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
A.  Background
1.        Eastern Senegal comprises about 60,000 km  or 30% of Senegal's land
area. It is remote from the major population concentrations and the capital
of Senegal, and has a poorly developed infrastructure and a population of
about 235,000, or about 6% of the total for Senegal. Except for small pro-
jects to grow rice and cotton and to resettle farmers from Senegal's Groundnut
Basin, the region has been neglected in the Covernment's development plans.
Interest in the region, however, has been kindled because of its relatively
reliable rainfall and the scope this offers for diversifying and sustaining
agricultural production in years when drought may destroy crops in other areas
of the country. In addition, it comprises large areas of unoccupied land
suitable for livestock production. The Governuent intends to implement two
principal projects in the region between 1975 and 1980: a project costing
about US$20 million to increase production of cotton, cereals and groundnuts,
to be implemented by SODEFITEX and for which the Government is seeking finan-
cial assistance from FED; and a project costing about US$10 million for live-
stock development, for which the Government has requested financial assistance
from the Bank Group. The Government also wishes to expand resettlement for
farmers from the Groundnut Basin.
2.        To date, Government projects in the region have been poorly coordi-
nated, but this has not adversely affected their success because investments
have been small and there has been no significant overlapping of activities.
However with the growth in development activities, a comprehensive plan for
agricultural development is needed to ensure that future planning is coordi-
nated and based on sound assessments of the region's resources. In particular,
a plan is required to determine the important constraints on development; the
relative merits of investments for improving farming by established farmers,
for livestock development and for resettlement; the priorities for infrastruc-
ture improvements; and institutional responsibilities.
3.        There is no consensus in the Government on an appropriate develop-
ment strategy for the region, but only a widely held and probably incorrect
belief that there are large areas of unused land suitable for cropping.
Reconnaissance soil surveys and the incidence of river blindness give evidence



ANNEX 6
Page 2
that unoccupied land suitable for cultivation may, in fact, be in short supply.
Hence, studies are required to verify the region's potential and the extent
of the constraints likely to be imposed on its development by river blindness
and the availability of cultivable soils.
B.   Scope of the Plan
4.        The plan would take account of Eastern Senegal's human and physical
resources and the Government's plans for developing the region. It would
cover cropping and livestock production by established farmers and livestock
owners and prospects for continuing resettlement, but would not cover urban,
mining or industrial activities not directly related to the rural sector.
C.   Plan Area
5.        The plan would be for the administrative region of Eastern Senegal
with the exception of the Niokolo Koba National Park and classified forests.
D.   Data Collection
6.        As a great deal of information is available in reports on Eastern
Senegal, the first plan activity would involve an exhaustive review of all
existing physical, technical, sociological and economic information on the
region. The major sources of information would be reports, maps, aerial
photographs and data provided by Governnent departments, development agencies,
and research organizations in Senegal.
7.        The following information would be collected:
(i) Population. Number, location and size of villages; distribution
of rural population by ethnic groups; population density;
population growth; population movement from other regions
toward Eastern Senegal and from Eastern Senegal toward the
cities.
(ii) Soils. Distribution of cultivable and grazing areas and
assessment of their production potential.
(iii)  Water Resources.  Identification of water resources from
rivers and from groundwater; possible changes in water supply
over recent years (in particular the incidence of droughts),
means of improving village water supplies, and planned
development for the Gambia river.
(iv) Climatic Conditions. Details of rainfall in the region;
annual and monthly distribution (average, high and low,
with frequency of low rainfall); implications for agriculture.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(v) Public Health. Location and intensity of major human
diseases, with particular attention to riverblindness and
bilharzia; importance of human health problems as a constraint
to development.
(vi) Agricultural Situation. Description of croppingpatterns in
traditional and modern farming; yields and production of cash
and food crops; assessment of farm labor requirements; use of
farm implements, number and type of tools and farm implements;
use of purchased seasonal inputs; status and achievements of
research organizations; farmers' revenues and returns on labor
in the main ecological areas with different cropping systems;
constraints on developing cash and food crops.
(vii) Livestock. Livestock numbers, traditional grazing, draft oxen,
cattle fattening, other livestock; assessment of the region's
resources for development and the availability of grazing
land, fodder and suitable farm residues; possible constraints
to cattle development, such as diseases, labor, water, marketing,
cattle prices; assessment of the region's potential for livestock
development.
(viii) Institutions. Description and role of existing Government and
quasi-Government agencies serving farmers and cattle herders;
efficiency of these services, particularly with regard to
extension, credit, input supply and marketing; number, size,
role and effectiveness of cooperatives.
(ix) Land Tenure. Description of official and traditional land
tenure systems; methods of land allocation for agriculture
and grazing to local farmers and migrant farmers and to
cattle herders; effectiveness of the prevailing land tenure
systems for resource utilization.
(x) Infrastructure. Location and condition of existing infrastruc-
ture, in particular welis and tubewells, primary and secondary
roads, storage facilities for farm inputs and farm produce,
infrastructure specifically related to livestock such as cattle
markets and slaughterhouses, etc. Location and condition of
schools and dispensaries and of rural stores for consumer goods;
and situation in the region as compared with national standards
and with Government targets.
8.        The collection of information would be supplemented by a critical
analysis of past and ongoing development projects in the region, with a view
to determining the reasons for their success or failure and lessons for
future development.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
E.   The Plan
9.        Information on the region would be presented in a data brief, and
on the basis of what is known of the region's resources the plan would
recommend an appropriate development strategy and make an assessment of
agricultural development priorities, including the Government's desire to
expand settlement. Areas with high development potential could be selected
and the plan would provide terms of reference for the subsequent preparation
of investment proposals for these areas. Additional surveys and studies
needed to prepare investment proposals would be detailed and their costs
estimated. Also, modifications would, if needed, be proposed for projects
being implemented or already planned to fit into the strategy outlined by
the plan.
F.  Health Survey
10.       Existing information shows that human diseases, particularly river
blindness, represent in some areas a severe constraint on development and
prevent the settlement of migrants. A survey and study would, therefore, be
carried out to determine the implications of the disease for the region's
development. This survey would be undertaken by a team of specialists, and
on the basis of separate terms of reference that would be prepared in con-
sultations between the Government, the Bank, WHO, and other specialized
organizations in this field. The survey would be carried out in areas identi-
fied during preparation of the plan as having a good potential for development.
G.   Institutions
il.       The plan would make recommendations on the appropriate roles and
responsibilities of Governinent departments and agencies in providing support
services to farmers, livestock owners and settlers (extension, credit, .
marketing, human and animal health, rural works, communications, education
etc.).
H.  Responsibilities and Organization
12.       The Ministry of Planning would employ three qualified Senegalese
and a consultant team comprising a study team leader/economist, an agronomist,
a rural works engineer, a livestock specialist, a soil surveyor, a financial
analyst, and a marketing specialist to prepare the plan and investment pro-
posals. The consultants would be needed for a total of 36 man-months, of
which 14 would be required for the draft master plan and 22 for the completion
of the plan and the preparation of investment proposals.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
I. Timetable
13.       The plan and investment proposals vould be prepared according to
the following sequence and tentative timetable:
(i) Draft plan completed - December 1976
(ii) Health survey completed - March 1977
(iii) Review of draft plan completed - June 1977
(iv)  Final plan and terns of reference for preparation
of investment proposals completed - August 1977
(v)  Investment proposals completed - December 1977.



SEN1EGA,ALIo
TE  ES NEUVES Il RESETTLEMENT AND EASTEE±9 SENEGAL                                                Ti
TECH141CAL ASSISTANCE PROSEC
SIMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS 1/
CFAF 000
Py I     _PY 2_      PY 3       PY 4      Total       % FE       Total FE       % Taxes       Total Taxes
A.  Civil Works
WelIs                                           37,900    16,590        5,925      -        60,415        45         27,200           21            12,700
3uiliings                                       10,428    15,859       6,636       -        32,923        45         14,800           25             8,200
Roads                                           15.168    39.816       4.740       -        59,724        25        14,900            25            14,900
Sub-total A                                     63,496    72,265       17,301              153,062        37        56,900            23           35,800
A. Vehicle=, Equipaent and Transport
Fa,d Tools                                       1,426      1,426       1,426      -         4,278        50          2,140           20               B60
Vehicles                                        13,669        -           -                 13,669        55          7,520           40             5,460
Transport for Setil es                           4.536      4.536      4.536       -        13608         20         2700             40             5,440
Sub-total B                                     19,631     5,962       5,962       -        31,555        39        12,360            37            11,760
C.  Salaries. Operatîng Expenses and
Maintenance
STN - Settlement (Salaries)                     10,300    11,500      19,200   16,700       57,700        -             -              8             4,616
SODEFITEX  (Salaries and Overhead)                -         9,000     10,600   12,200       31,800        -             -             8             2,544
STN - Operating Expenses                        12,100    11,600      11,600   11,600       46,900        40        18,800            29            13,440
Maintenance (Roads and buildings)                 -         1.400      4,840    5,524    _1 764           30          3,500           25             2,900
Sub-total -                                     22,400    33,501)    46,240   46,024    148,164           :5        22,300            16           23,;00
D.  Settler Recruitsant and Installat ion
Recruitment                                        120        120         120     -            360        -            -             15                 53
Land Clearing and Subsistence Allowances        30,200    46,000      33,400    1,200    110,800         36         40,500
Sub-total D                                     30,320    46,120      33,520    1,200    111,160         36         40,500            1                5
E.  Incremental On-farm Costa
Fertiliser, seeds, and insecticides              6,600    14,783      20,830   23,984       66,197        52        21,183            7             4
Draft Oxen andi lIsplemsents                    13,600    13,800      16,426    3,000      46,826        40         18,730            5             2,63
Upkecp of Oxen and Implements                    1,500     3.254       5.00C    6.400       16,154        23         3,715            6             1.000
Sub-total E                                     21,700    31,837      42,256   33,384    129,177         34         43,628            6             7,974
F.  Regional Plan
Consultants' Costa                              33,800    37,000        -         -        70,800       100         70,800            6             4,248
Counterpart Salaries                             6 000     6.000        -         _        12,000        -            -               8             1.000
Sub-total P                                     39,800    43,000        -         -        82,800        86         70,800            6             5,248
Base Cost Estisate                             197,347   232,684    145,279   80,608    655,918          38        246,488           13            84,335
Physical Contingencies                          31,487    31,435       8,191      -        71,113        37         26,311           25            17,778
Expected Price Increases                        27.277    63.689      49,292   17.983    158.241         32         50.637           10            16,362
Total Project Costs                            256,111   327,808    202,762   98,591    885,272          37        323,436           13           118,475
1/   Mid-1975 prices.  Civil works, equipment, materials, consultants and operating expernditures in Tables 2 - 5 are based on mid-1974 prices and have
been adjusted for price increases as follors:  Civil woris + 18%; equipment, materials, consultants and operating costs + 147%.  Salary costs are
based on the revised rates introduced by Goverrnient in Novemaber, 1974, and these rates are assumed to continue throughout 1975.



SENEGAL                                                                               AMNEX 7
Table 2
TERRES NEUVES 1I RESETTLENENT AND EASTERN  SENEGAL TECSFICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
A. Infreateucture. Settler Recuitmunt, Transportation and Land Clar ig
('000 CPA!)
Unit cost
('000 CFAF)           1975               1976              1977           1978             TltE l           L/ Foreign Etchaige
2/
1. Welle aid village iifrastructure
Nem  aille, type I                           Nimber                    1                   3              -                -                 -                    3            -
Ccst                 6,000              08,000              -                 --18,00e                                           50
Ne  -elln, type 2                           NCbe                 6      0           I                                     -                 -                   6             -
Cost                 3,000               9,000              9,000             -                 -             l, 000             40
Improvemcent  if infrastructure in           Number                    1                   5                  5                5             -                  15             -
established villages receini.g            Cent                 1,000               5 OUi              5 000             5 OUI             -             15,000             40
settiers (acîcîs moada nelin, stores)
Sebtstal 1                                                                           32,000             14,000             5,000                            51,000             45
2. B.ildingi
SOt tlient housee                            Nmber                     1                   3                  4                 1            -                   8              -
Cost                   100                 300                400               100             -                 800            20
Village stoes                                Number                    1                   4                  4                 1            -                   9              -
Cent                 1,000               4,000              4,000             1,000             -              9,000             45
Clans-rocms                                  Number                    1                   3                  6                 3            -                  12             -
C-st                 1,3500              4500               9 000             4,5018 -                           000             45
Subtotal 2                                                                            8,800             13,400             5,600                            27,800             45
3, Roads
Acce-n t-rcks                                Nimber (kl)               I                  32                 34                10            -                  76             -
Cnst                   400              12,800             13,600            4,000              -             30,400             25
Secondary grnvl reads                       Nimber (kl)               I               -                     25            -                 -                  25             -
Cent                   800               -                 20,000             -                 -             20,000             25
Subtotat 3                                                                           12,800             33,600             4,000             -              50,400             25
4. Vehicles
5 ton truck                                  Nimber                    1                   1             -                 -                                     i             -
Cent                 5,000               5,000              -                 -                 -              5,000             55
ibirecter' e ccr                             Nimber                    O                   I             _                 _                 -                   I
Ccst                 1,600               1,600              -                 -                 -              1,600             55
Projeet Manager' s car                       Nmber                     1                   I             -                 -                 -                                 -
Cost                 1,600               1,600              -                 -                 -              1,600             55
Oeputy Manager-  n Prjece ccr                Nimber                    i                   1             _                 _                 _                   1
Cost                   850                 850              -                 -                 -                850             55
Recrueiter' n car                            Nimber                    I                   I             _                 _                 _                   I -
Cnet                   850                 850              -                                                    850             55
Subtotal 4                                                                            9,900                                                                  9,900             55
5.   ectrnitiet, teansoortation & teoln  tsta
Kecruitment                                  Nimber                    1                   4                  4                4             -                  12             -
C-st                    30                 120                120               120             -                360             15
Traîsportation   f n igmamt femilies         Nimber                    1                 200                200              200             -                 600             -
C-st                    20               4,000              4,000            4,000              -             12,000             50
Handtools foe  laId cl-aring                 Nimber                    1                 200                200              200             -                 600             -
Cect                     6               1 200              1 200             1 200             -                60              50
Subtotal 5                                                                            5,320              5,320             5,320                            15,960             50
Total Capital Oint, including Tains               -                        -              68,820             66 320           19 920             _             155,060             40
Total Cepital Cest. ecluding Taies                                                        50302             49912             14 662             -             114.876             53
1/    Cotns  hn iesnlde ta-es
2/    Wll. fnr th. firIt 3 villagic -eIAd pyrbably be c.nstrncted on cteracnt et as  nt of ebot CFAF 6 million per-  -l tc  encire c mipletien on tire;  othbe relis sould
be construted an f-rce ac...r.t by GOeememnet c nll building brigades.



SENEGAL
TURRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMdNT AS S EA3TERN SUNEGAL
TECSTNCAL ASSISTANCE PROT,3CT
PROJECT CESTS
S. On-fart Conte
(CFAF ' 000)
.r2J        PY2        PY3         PY 4        PY5         5 6         PY 7        PU     8 py 9          PY 10        Pil          PY 12         PY 13        PY 1     4 P Y 15 - 20    I       Port     nnle.s,
1.  Fortinoce
10.21.21             Sait Cnet       42.9        41.6        40.9       40.6        40.4        40.3        40.0       39,7         39.5       39.2          38.8         38.8         38.8         38.8            38.8
No. (tonnr       -          15         45          69          83          88          86         86          82          82           82           82           90            90              90                     -
Cnet             -        624       1,840       2,801       3,353       3,546       3,440     3,414        3,239       3,239        3,182        3,182        3,492        3,49-2           3,492
14.7.7              USit Cnet        38.9        37.7        37.2       36.9         36.6       36.5        36.3       36           35.8       35.5          35.3         35.3         35.3         35.3            35.3
NIoOtone)       25          38          28         34          34          34          34         34          34          38           42           49           49            49              45-
cN.t           895      1,433       1,339       1,255       1,244       1,241       1,234     1,224        1,217       1,349        1,483        1,730        1,730        1,730            1,588
8.18.27              Unit Cnet       42.1        40.8        42.4        40          39.9       39.4        39.2       38.9         38.7        38.5         38.3         38.3         38.3         38.3            38.3
No. (tons)      25         85         140         176         202         218         252        315         364         394          202          220          220          218              206                     -
Cnet         1,052      3,468       5,936       7,040       8,060       8,589       9,878    12,254       14,087      15,169        7,737        8,426        8,426        8,349            7,890                     -
Urne                 Unit Cnrt       56.7        49.2        40.6        35.6        33.1       32.1         33.1      34.1         35.2        36.1         37.1         37.1         37.1         37.1            37.1
No. (tons)       -          20         49          69          82          88          93        110         124         133          135          142          145           145             142
Cnet             1         984      1,989       2,456       2,714       2,825       3,078     3,751        4,365       4,801        5,008        5,268        5,380        5,380            5,268
Ronck Phnephnte      Unît Cnet       12.3        11.5        10.9        10.7        10.3       10.6        10.1        9.7          9.3         8.9          8.4         -            .            .                . 
taN. (tonn)    180         280        268         240         240         240         240        243         240         160           .            -             -
Cnet         2,214      3,220       2,834       2,568       2,520       2,544       2,424     2,328        2,232       1,424           _            _            _             _               _                      -
Sbtnto1l 1                        4161        9,729    713.938       16.120     17,891      18.745      20,054    22.971        25,140     25.982        17.410       18.606        19.028       18,951          18.238                   60
2. Seedd 1/
Gr.ondnut 2/         Unit Cont       59.4        53.8        50.3        47.2        44.8        42.2       43.5       45.0         46.5        47.9         48.5         48.5         48.5          48.5            48.5
No. (tnne)      40          90        124         151         163         184         188        243         240         230          222          220           218          220             224
Cont         2,376      4,842       6,237       7,127       7,27        770 T,      s'l1i    1035W        11,6t0'    T11,0 T1 77-g                f7U        T0,73v,       10,670          10,8r6
Millet               Unit Cnet        70         70          70          70          70          70          74         70          75          70           70           70           70            70              70
No. (t) .        20.9        0.2         2.5        2.6         2.5         2.5         2.7        2.8          3.0         2.9         2.9           2.7          2.8          2.9             2.8
Cnet            63          14        175         182         175         175         189        196         210         203          203          189           196          203             196
Mniîs               USit Cont         75         75          75          75          75          75          75        75           72          75           75           75           75            75              75
No. (tone) -.                            4.8        5.0          5.5        6.0       7,0.        10.5         13.8       10.8          16.0         17.0         18.0         18.0            17.0
Cnet            -          150        360         375         412         510         525        787.5     1,035       1,185        1,200        1,275         1,350        1,350           1,275                     -
S-rghnn              Unit Cnet       60          60          60          60          60          60          60        60           60          60           60           60           60           60               60
No. (tons)      -            08          2.0        3.0          3.8        4.2         4.1        n.1          3.9         3.9          3.9          4.1          4.2          4.2             4.2
Cnet            _          48         120         180         228         252         246        246         234         234          234            246          252          252             252
Sobtotol 2                        2,439       5,054       6,892       7,864       8,117      8,702       9,138    12,16n.5    12,639        12,639       12,404       12,380       12,371       12,475           12,587                     -
3.                              ifEt En  ond  lnneato 3/
Onot poir-           Unit Cnet       30          30          30          30          30          30          30        30           30          30           30           30            30           30              30
Nunben         200        28°0        200         200         200         200         200        200         200         200           200          200          200          200             200                      -
Coot        6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000      6,000       6,000       6,000        6,000        6,000        6,000         6,000           6,000
Inp len-ts           Coot         5,749       5,749       7,809      2,060        3,460      1,400       1,400         -            -        2,709        2,709        2,709           -             -               -                     40
Canin                Cnrt            -           -           -           -        1,883       1,883      1,883         -            -           -            -            -             -            -               -                     40
Pendtools            Unit Cnet         I          I           1           1           S           1           I          I           I           I            1             1            I            I               I
Nutabon        205  40      0         600         600         60            0         600        600         600         600           600          600          600          600              600
Cnet           200         400        600         600         600         600         600        600         600         600           600          600          600          600             600                    30
Sbîtotol 3                       11,949      12,149      14.409       8_660      ii,943       9.8a3        9.883    6.600        6,600       9.309        9,309        9,309        6,600        6,600            6.600                    16
4.  Mliatnnonne Cnatn
Soon (poins)         Unit Cot          3          3           3           3           3           3           3          3                 3            3            3                   3            3               3                      -
No=ber         200         400         600        600         600         600         600        600          600         600          600          600          600          600              600
Cn-t           600      1,200       1           1,800       1,80 0      1,000       1,000      1,800       1,800       1,800        1,800         1,800        1,800        1,800           7,800                      _
Fodd-r               Cost            72G      1,080       1,440         900         760         400         220         -                       -            -             -            -                            -                       -
Fo.r ICpînanots      Cnst             -         575       1,150       1,931       2,326       2,861       3,190     3,330        3,330       3,330        3,600        3,870         4,140        4,140           4,140                    40
S.btotol 4                        1.320       2.055       4.390       4,631       4.806       5.061       5.210     5.130        5,130       5,130        5.400        5,670         5,940        5.940           5.940                    23
5.  Ltnd Cle-nlon G-rntî  Coot             600       1,200       1,800      1,400         200          -           -          -            -           -            -            -            -             -               -
6. anehan-i-l Lnod
Cie._ion              Cnet        20,000      20,000       5,000          -           -
7.    Enbeletnnn
Allonano-e         Cnet        10,200      28,200      28,200       1,800          -
Tntol, ionloding Tea-s           50,669      79.187      74,629      40,475      43.037      42.391      44.285    46.865.5    49.509       53.060       44.523       45,965        43,938       43.966          43,365                     31
1/ In-lndne ro-ts nf fuagioidnn xod pesticidnn.
_/  Ornoundonu: Cornosn price pls 257.



Ananx 7,
FZNFlCA                                                                               table 4
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL TEChNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT çOSTS
C. Msaagemnnt CaOts - (CTAT '000)
Unit Cost                                                               % Foreign
('000 CTAT) PY1         PY 2        PY 3         PY 4       Total       Exchange
1. Staff renuirements and salaries allevanees, STN
Directo  -                                                  Ne                  1       _                                        1           2
Cost           4,550        -           -         4,550         4,550       9,100          15
Preject hianager - Sottlînent 1/                            Nunber              1        -          -               I            1           2
Cost           1,900        -           -          1,900        1,900       3,800          15
Technical assistant - settlenent                            Number              I           1           1           1            1           4
Cest           1,600       1,600       1,600       1,600        1,600       6,400          15
Accountaet                                                  Nurber              1           1           1           1            1           4
Cnst           1,900       1,900       1,900      1,900         1,900       7,600          15
Clerk                                                       Nmber               1           1          1            1            1           4
Clst            850          850        850          850          550       3,400          10
Secretary                                                   N.sber              1           2           2           2            2           8
s!                                                Cost              540       1,000       1,000      1,080         1,080      4,320           10
.atchia" -                                                  Number              1           1           1          4            4           10
Cost             310         310         310       1.240        1,240       3,100          10
Mensonger                                                  eNumber              1           1           1           1            1           4
Cent             310         310         310         310          310       1,240          10
Drivers                                                     Number              1          2           2           2            2           8
Cent             600       1,200       1,200       1,200        1,200      4,800           10
Temporary Werkers                                           Number              1           6           6          6             6         24
Cnst             160         960         960         960          960       3,840          10
Settiement Officors 3/                                      Number              1           2           5           6            3          16
Cnet             380         760       1.900       2,280        1,140       6,080          10
Recruiter                                                   N.e.br              1           1           I          I                         3
Cost           1,350       1,350       1350       1,350                    4,050           15
Scb-tetal 1                                                                         10,320      11,460      19,220       16,730      57,730
2. Mainteneoce and operating cost of vehicles (STN) 4/
Tr-c                                                        Nueer      - b.1                                        i             
Cnst           2,200       2,200       2,200       2,200        2,200       8,800          55
Cars                                                        Nvmber             1           4           4           4            4          16
Cnet           1,050       4,200      4,200       4,200        4,200      16,800           55
Snbi,tol 2                                                                           6,400       6,400       6,400        6,400      25,600          55
3.  Maintenance cests of infrastrueture  (Local Goverrment and ITN)
Roads                                                                       -           -            960       3,730        4,110       8,80C           25
Buildings                                                                    -          -            440       _,110        i,414       2,964           35
Sub-total  3                                                                                     1,400       4,840        5,524      11,764          30
4. Other STN0 Oper-ting Cents
Rentale                                                     Number              1           I           1           1            -
Cost           2,400       2,400       2.400       2,490        2,400       9,600          -
Office and training expeenes                                Nomber              1           1           1           1           1           4
Cent           1,500       1,500       1,500      1,500         1,500       6,000          50
Travel expennes                                             Cest            -            800         300         300          300       1,700          50
Miscellaneous contributions                                 Cost            _          1,000       1,000       1,000        1,030       4,000          -
Snbhtotai 4                                                                          5,700       5,20C       5,200        5,200      21,30C          20
5.  Agricultural extension  nervices  ostsn
Secter chiai -                                              Nu-ber              1       _                                                     .%5
Cost           3,000        -          15C0        1,500        1,500       4,500          15
Liveatock Officer                                           N.cber              I       _               1                        1           3
CkNe           1,600        -             1,600,000             1,600       4,800          15
W.arebh,ee attendante                                       Noter               1        -2                         2            2           6
Cnst             460        -            920         920          920       2,760          15
Techeical assistants                                        Number                       -              2           2            2           6
eCot           1,600        -          3,200       3,200        3,200       9,600          15
Entensten Officers                                          Number              1       -              4           8           12          24
Cest             400        -          1,600       3,200        4,800       9,600          10
Overhead cests                                              Cnst            -           _            200         200          200         600          15
Sub-total 5                                                                                      9,020      10,620       12,220      31,860          13
Total ManageRent and Operating Cents, ieeladicg  tane              -             -         22,420      33,480     46,280        46,074    148,254           24
Total Management and Overating Cont.,s,eludiog  tans               -             -         18,140      28,190     38 140       37,795    122,265            29
1/  Th.e cast  fer PY 1 and PY 2 are met under the vilet prenjet (Credit 254-SE).
2/  Three satchen are already provided under the pilot project for PY 1 and PY 2.
3/  One field verker pr-vided under the pilot project in PY 1 and PY 2 vould also work n the additien to village 4. Field workers would stny 2 yenrt  ic each now
village and veld serve settlers in establinhed villages.
4/  Truck.  20,000 Sey/pear,  pyrating coet ef CFAT 110/1S, light vehicle   30,000 km/year, operating cnst - CFAT 35/kl.
5/  Rental office in lDakar and Director's hose.
6/  An the seeter chief  -uld previde services t  established farmets in the ara, only 507 of his cnet it  charged ro the projeet.



ANNEX7
Table 5
SENEGAL
TERRES NEES Il RESETTLENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Cost of Regional Plan
PYl    PY 2        PY 3         Total
CONSULTANTS (Man-months)
Team Leader/Economist                           3           5           8
Rural Engineer                                   2          3            5
Agronomist                                       3          3            6
.Aimal Hhsbandry                                1           1            2
Financial Analyst                                2          3            5
Soil Surveyor                                   2           -            2
MarketinR                                        1          1            2
&%ecialist for .nus2. urveys of
Resettlement Projects                  2       2           2           6
Total (Man-months)                 2      16          18          36 1/
------------- CFAF'OOO ----__________ % F.E.
COSTS
1  Consultants  Us$6,ooo per man-month   24,480       27,360      51,840             100
2.  Travel                                  1,440       1,200       2,640             100
3.  Local Staff  i                          6,000       6,000      12y000              15
4. Vehicles /                              35360         -         3,360              55
5. Vehicle  Operating Costs                 2,160       2,160       4,320              55
6. Health Survey                            35600       3,600       7,200              70
7. Report Preparation                         720         720       1,440             100
Sub-Total                             41h-60     41,040       82,800              80
Physical Contingencies                      4v,5        4«,08o      8,160              80
Expected Price Increases                    9,840      14,400      24,240              80
Total Cost                            552680     59,520      115 200              80
1]  14 man-months for preparation of a master plan and 22 man-months for preparation
of detailed investment proposals.
Three Senegalese counterparts, two for planning and one for annual surveys.
Two light vehicles.



SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESRTTLR18T ANS EASTERN SRNESGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PRO1ECT COST
Taxes 1/
CFAF '000
PY E       PY 2         PY 3        PY 4                      PY S  L   67             pv 8                      PY 0I       PY11         PY 12        PY 13        PY 14        py iS- 20
1.   Taxes .. Capital Costs
1ello axd vtillag  infrastructures                 7,300       2,800        1,000        -            -            -           -            _            _            -            _           _            -            -            _
Bsilding.                                          2,200       3,350        1,400
Roxda                                               3,200      8,400        1,000        -            -            -           -            -            -            -           -            _            -            _            _
VehiceSs                                           3,960        -            -
Recaitxext, transportatiax axd toolsR 1.860                    1860         1.860        -                                                               -
SRb total                   1,520       16,410       5,260
2.   Taxas on Os-Fats  Cxxts
Fertilizers                                         -           -             230         510          915        1,160       1,315        1,360        1,300        1,400       1,550        1,955        2,020        1,995        1,860
I-secticides                                        -           -              55         110          530          275         440          550          770          850         990        1,100        1,100        1,100        1,100
SEmplemexts                                          575        575          780          395          35C         140          140        -            -             270          270          270        -            -             -
Cart-                                                                        -           -             530          530         530         -            -
Ha-dtools                                              20         40           60          60           60           60          60           60           60           60           60          60           60           60           60
Mainten-ane                                         n-60                      115         190          23C          290          320         330          330          330          360          390         415          415          415
Suo  total                      595         675        1,240       1,265        2,305        2,455       2,805        2,300        2,460       2,940        3,230        3,775        3,595        3,570        3,435
3.   Taxes on Maxagemeg t Cotst
0TN Staff                                          1,360       1,420        1,530       1,340         -            -            -           -            -            -            -           -            -            -            -
Maietexaxte and opseation - Vehicles               2,560       2,560        2,560       2,560         -            -           -
Maintenance fafrastesetare                          -            350        1,210       1,355        1,355        1,355        1,355       1,355        1,355        1,355        1,355        1,355       1,355         1,355       1,355
Other STN operating .osts                           960          760          760         760         -            -           -            -            -
Extensiox servîtes                                 -             000         880           960         960          960         480          480          480          480          480         480          480          480          480
Sub tataS                    4,080        5,890        6,940       6,975        2,315        2,315       1,835        1,835        1,835        1,835       1,835        1,835        1,835        1,835        1,835
2/
Total 1, 2, 3 -                                   23,995      22,975       13,440       8,240        4,620        4,770       4,640        4,135        4,295        4,775        5,065        5,610       5,430        5,405        5,270
4.  Tas component af Physical Cnntingcncies             2, Sfl      2,800        1,270           -          -             -           -            -           -            -            _            _             _           _            _
Total 1, 2, 3, 4                                 26,895       25,775       14,710       d,240         4,§2G       4,770       4,640        4.135        4,295        4,775        5,065        5,610        5,430        5,405       5,270
Total taxes, correct Canas                       33,350       34,795       21,476       13,010       7,807        8,648        9,000       8,600        9,574       11, 374      12,966       14,361       13,900      13,831        13,491
-s>
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1/ Tax -ate- table 1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lx
/ Tax compoxennt              term  priai to physical - antiagceaies.
*/ 15% as civil -akt, 10°7 on equipment.



Annex 8
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMNT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNIGAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
QUARTERIY DISBURSEMNTS OF IDA CREDIT
us$ '000
IBRD                      Cumulative                     Undisbursed
FY                       Disbursements                    Balance
FY 1976
December 31                 100                          1,900
March 31                     200                         1,800
June 30                     400                          1,600
FY 1977
September 30                600                         1,400
December 31                  800                         1,200
March 31                     900                         1,100
June 30                    1,100                           900
FY 1978
September 30              1,300                            700
DeceTber 31                1,400                            600
March 31                   1,500                            500
June 30                    1,600                            400
FY 1979
September 30              1,700                            300
December 31                1,800                            200
March 31                   1,850                            150
June 30                    1,900                            100
FY 1980
September 30               1,950                            50
Deceiber 31                2,000



SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
(Ton)
PY 2    py 3       py 4      py g      py 6      PY 7      PY 8     PY 9      PY 10    PY il       PY 12      PY 13      PY 14      PY lS      Py 16      Py 17       PY 18-20
Groundnuts       305       925       1,350   1,735    1,974    2,169    2,428         2,708   2,758    2,773         2,771      2,767      2,744      2,752      2,760      2,768         2,768
Cotton            -         -           60      194       313       362      496        762   1,093    1,273         1,345      1,387      1,387      1,387      1,387      1,425         1,463
Millet           195       147         514      554       558       580      640        671      711       698         704        689        719        749        742        742           742
Maize             -        120         299      342       409       463       615     1,038   1,425    1,600         1,600      1,700      1,700      1,700      1,650      1,650         1,650
Sorghum           -        100         296      510       691       814       860       975      970       985         990      1,035      1,080      1,080      1,080      1,080         1,080



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Cereals
1.        Cereal marketing in Senegal is more concerned with distributing
imports than with trade in local production. In normal years, over one third
of Senegal's cereal requirements are imported, averaging some 315,000 ton per
year. In 1972, the height of the drought, 400,000 ton were imported. On
average, imports include about 190,000 ton of rice, 100,000 ton of wheat,
and 25,000 ton of maize.
2.        Millet and sorghum comprise the most important domestic cereals,
with combined production of just under 500,000 ton per year. Most is pro-
duced for subsistence consumption; only 30,000 ton were purchased by ONCAD
in 1973/74. Maize production is about 30,000 ton per year, of which some
12,000 ton were purchased by ONCAD in 1973/74. ONCAD's producer price for
millet and sorghum, which had been considered too low to encourage production
of a marketable surplus, was recently raised from CFAF 25/kg to CFAF 30/kg,
while that of maize was set at CFAF 35/kg. With world market prices for
these commodities doubling between 1972 and 1974, the new producer prices
are about equal in 1974 terms to their economic value based on import sub-
stitution, (Tables 1 and 2). There is a possibility for some substitution
of millet for wheat in bread (up to 25% of the flour). The main market pro-
spect for millet, however, lies in its substitution for urban consumption of
rice, two thirds of which must be imported. The world market price of rice
tripled between 1972 and 1974 and, although some decline is expected, it
should remain considerably higher than the 1972 level for the rest of the
decade.  With this increase, Government raised the official sale price from
CFAF 58/kg to CFAF 100/kg in November 1974. At this price, local cereals
will be competitive with imported rice in the urban cereal market, even
taking account of the preference of the people for rice because of its
taste and ease of preparation.
Export Crops
3.        Groundnut marketing is a Government monopoly.  The marketing agency,
ONCAD, buys groundnuts from the cooperatives at a fixed price, provides hand-
ling and transport services, and sells the groundnuts to oil millers at a
price based on the world market price. The total marketed production, rang-
ing from 500,000 to 1 million ton per year, is processed locally; and virtually
all of the groundnut cake and about 80% of the oil is exported. Oil is sold
on the domestic market at a subsidized price of CFAF 200/liter compared to
a wholesale cost of about CFAF 300/liter.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        The world market price of shelled groundnuts, which fluctuated
around US$190/ton through the 1960s, reached US$610/ton in April-May of 1974.
As a result of these increases, ONCAD's selling price to oil millers in-
creased from CFAF 34/kg in 1971/72 to CFAF 80/kg in 1973/74. However, only
a fraction of the increases was at first passed to farmers, as the producer
prices for unshelled groundnuts were increased from CFAF 23.1/kg in 1971/72 to
only CFAF 29.5/kg in 1973/74. However, Government raised the producer price
for the 1974 crop to CFAF 41.5/kg. The world market price for groundnuts in
1974 terms is expected to decline through 1980 to the extent that, if the
producer price is maintained at CFAF 41.5/kg, no transfers would be made to
the price stabilization fund, but to the contrary, this fund may be required
to support the farmgate price. To maintain positive and adequate balances--
for price stabilization and revenues for Government sufficient to cover the
costs on behalf of groundnut farmers--the producer price may have to be
lowered to about CFAF 27/kg in 1974 terms (Table 3). This price has been
used in all financial analyses in this report.
5.        Cotton marketing and ginning is the exclusive monopoly of SODEFITEX.
About 55% of the cotton fiber is exported, with the rest sold to local textile
factories; this proportion is likely to change as production increases faster
than local demand. All seed not required for planting is sold to oil mills,
and most of the oil and cake are exported.
6.        World market prices for medium staple cotton have almost doubled
in the last two years, rising from about US$0.38/lb in 1972 to US$0.70/lb in
1974. The proportion of the proceeds of sales transferred to the stabiliza-
tion fund increased from about 25% of the selling price in 1972/73 to 60% for
the 1973/74 campaign. Coupled with a 40% increase in production, stabiliza-
tion fund revenues increased from CFAF 300 million to about CFAF 2 billion
over the same period. Government has increased the net producer price for
seed cotton by 55%, from CFAF 30/kg in 1973/74 to CFAF 46.5/kg for the 1974
crop, and with the expected decline in world market prices, the stabilization
fund revenues will fall substantially. But even so, it should be possible to
retain a farmgate price of CFAF 46.5/kg in 1974 terms, and leave adequate
revenues for Governinent (Table 4). This price has been used, therefore,
for the project's financial calculations.



Annex 10
Table 1
SENEGAL
TESES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Maize
(in 1974 terms)
1975      1975
US$      CFAF
(1) Average World Market Price 1/
Maize per ton (FOB Gulf Mexico)             I16       26,100
(2) Per Metric Ton of Maize in Senegal
Freight, Insurance and Port Charges                  10,450
CIF Senegal value of one ton of maize                36,55o
(3)  Transportation within Senegal                          2,400
(4) Economic Farmgate Value 1/                            34,150
!/ The official price to the farmer set by Government is CFAF 35,000/ton.



Annex 10
Table 2
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Millet and Sorghum
.(in 1974 terms)
1975     1975
US$      CFAF
(1) Average World Market Price
Millet/Sorghumuper ton (FOB Gulf Mexico)         106     23,850
(2) Per Metric Ton of Millet/Sorghum in Senegal
Freight, Insurance and Port Charges                      10,450
CIF Senegal value of one ton-MLU1et/Sorghlm              34,300
(3)  Transportation vithin Senegal                             2,400
(4)  Econamic Farmgate Value 1/                               31,900
2/ Official price to the farmers set by Government is CFAF 30,000/ton.



Annex 10
Table 3
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Groundnuts
(in 1974 terms)
1975       1975
US$        CFAF
(1) Average World Market Price
-  Groundnuts per ton (CIF Europe)                   410        925250
(2) Per Metric Tons of Groundnuts in Senegal
-  Equivalent unshelled basis (70 percent)                      64,575
-  Freight Insurance                                             8,670
-  Export Price FOB Dakar unshelled                             55,905
(3)  ONCAD Expenses (transportation & handling) 2/                 4,300
(4) Economi¢ Farmgate Value                                       51i,605
-  To the Stabilization FRnd                                    10,105
-  To the Farmer 2/                                             41,500
1/ Incremental cost of which: - transport cost    ......... CFAF 3,000/ton
- storage      ................ CFAF   500/ton
- fixed cost ......... .   CFAF   800/ton
2/  The official price for 1974 was CFAF 41.5/kg.



Annex 10
Table 4
SENEGAL
T_RRES NEUVES II RESETT$EMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Cotton
(in 1974 terms)
1975         1975
US$          CFAF
(1) Average World Market Price
-  Lint per ton (CI? Liverpool)                       1,124        252,909
-  Cottonseed per ton (CIF Europe)                      134         30,150
(2)  Per Metrie Ton of Seed Cotton in Senegal
-  36.8 percent of the CIF Liverpool value
of one ton of lint                                              93,070
-  60 percent of the CIF Europe value of one
ton of cotton seed                                              18,090
1-ii160
-  Marketing, Freight and Insurance
(Lint and oil)                                                  12 121
-  FCB Senegal value of one ton seed cotton                         99,039
1/                             2/
(3)  Ginning, Mransportation and Production  Costs                    38,601
(4)  Econoemc Farmgate Value                                          60,438
-  To the Stabilization Fund                                        13,928
-  To the Farmer                                                    46,500
1/ Ginning costs = CFAF 11,200/ton of seed cotton.
2/ Farm inputs of about CFAF 16,225 per ton of cotton are paid by SODEFITEX
and the farmer receives the net producer price of CFAF 46,500/ton of cotton.



SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT ANIS RASTEON SENEGAL TEGSUICAL ASSISTANCE PEOJECI
Plan fora1-      nPo      aolCnrn
TEAN                              1                2               3                4                5               6               7                8                                 0il                                12                13               14                15
Land Entîtininnt                 10               10              10               10               10              10              10               10              10                10                10                10                10                10               10
LandAllî...tad  ha ll                              45              5                65               7               N               9               10              10                10                10                10                10                10               10
Cîearnd Lnd h.                                      .55             6.5             5.               7               S               9              10               10                10                10                10                10               10                10
F.11o,           ha               O                O                O               1                2                1              2                2                2                2.5               2.5               2.5                2     -1.5                        1.5
T-ditiA-l                             A     YC.lYPt                                P    A         P       A     Y         A Y                   Y    P               P      Ai              P A Y               A    Y     P       A    Y     P    A    y    P   AT y P
Nillot                       0.5a0.6-0.3  1.5nO.75=1.13   1.5nO.75=1.13  1 nO.75=0.75   1nO.75=0.75    1.5o0.75-1.13  2n0.75=1.50   1.5n0.75=1.1S  2.5n0.75=1.08   1nO.75-0.75    1n0.75-0.75                        0.5n0.75=0.30    1.5n0.7"5=11    l.x075.l13           1.0.75=0.75
Groondooto                   i  .0.9=0.9  2  nO.9 =1.0       2  .0.9 =1.0  1.5.0.9 =1.35   1=0.9 =0.9          1.5n0.9 -1.25  1o0.9 =0.9    2.5nO.9 =2.25  1.5n0.9 =1.351.0n.9 -0.9   0.5.0.9 =0.45                  0.5n0.9 -0.45    0.5n0.9 =0.45  1.5.0.9 -1.35 150913
Intewstftad Cultivation
Sorghn                           -                           0.5.1.2=0.6   0.75n1.2=0.98   1nl.4=1.4           1=1.5=1.5        0.5n.1.-0.8   1n1.7=l.7         0.5n.10=0.9   0.5o1.8-0.9    lnl.8-l.S               lnl.0-l.8          în.N.-1.N         ..-.             ..-.
Malan             -              -          0~~~~~~~~~~~~.25n1.5=0.3 0O.25nl.6=-0.4  0.5n1.8-0.9   0O5a2  =1.0  0.5n2.0-1.0   1a2.1=2.0          0.5n2.0-1.0       1a2.0-2.0    1.2.0=2.0           1.5.2.0=5.0          1.2.0-2.0    I 1.2.0-2.0          1..0-2.0
Groondoato    -               -                -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.75n1.2-0.9    lnl.25=l.25    201.2=2.6  2n1.35 =2.7   1.1.4=1l.4     1.5n1.45-2.18    2.1.5=3.0    2n1.5=3.0               2.1.5=5.0          2a1..5-3.0    1.5.1.5-2.25   1.5.1.5-2.25
Cotton                                   -                  0.25n0.8-0.2   0.25n1.1=0.28 0.5n11.2=0.0    0.5n1.3=0.65           1o1.4  =1.4   lnl.5-1.5        1.2n1.5 =2.25  1.5n1.5=2.25 1.5n.10o2.25              2.1.5-3.0        1.5.1.5-2.25   I.1.5l.-2.25         2.1.5-3.0
mili.t                                                                                                                    0.5.1.0-0.50 0.5.1.0-0.50            ~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.1.2-1.2  0.5.1.4-0.7    0.5.1.4-0.7    0.5.1.6=0.7
Total Prod.rtion (tona.
Millet                          0.3              1.13             1.15            0.75             0.75             1.13           1. 5             1.12             1.00              1. 25             1.25              1.58              1.85             1.83             1.45
Oronodoota                      0.9              1.0             1.0              2.25             2.15             3.95           3.6              5.05             3.53              3.9               3.45              3.45              3.45             3.60             3.60
Sorghon                          -               -               0.0              0.98             1.4             1.5             0.0              1.7             0.9               0.9                1.8               1.0               1.8              1.8              1.8
Raina-                                                           0.30             0.4              0.9              1.0            1.0              2.0              1.0               2.0               2.0               3.0               2.0              2.0              2.0
Cotton                           -               -               0.2              0.28             0.6              0.65           1.4              0.5              2.25              2.25              2.25              3.0               2.25             2.25             3.0
F- ou  hortaron.1 .llo. td ontaalatoad balano                    .. îoatnd hantara hy hortara for thn ora op-rood.
2/A -Aro  (4-otan.)
yY=YI.ld (ton/ha)
P~ - Pod.ntlo  (tona.)i



SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTER" SENEGAL 
TEChNICAL AOSISTAiE PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - MA73. CLEA7ING
TEAR                          I               2              3              4              5              6              7              8              9              10             10             12             U              14              15
A.  V.o.of Peod.tiu.<Ç(?~yfil
ue of t  <o28/kg)                   8,400          31,640         31,640         21,000         21,OOO         31,640         42,o0o        31,640         52,640         35,000         35,000         44,240          51,240         51.240         40,600
Orood0,ntau         <27/kg)           24,300          48,600         48,600         60,750         58,050       106,650          97,200        98,550         95,310        105,300         93,150         93,150          93,150         97,200         97,200
S-rghb              (28/kg)             -               -            16,b80         27,440         39,200         42,000        22.400         47,600         25,200         25,200         50,400         50,400         50,400          50,400         50,400
Moine               (30/kg)  î,         -               -            11.400         12.000         27,000         30,000         30,000        60,000         30,000         60.000         60,000          90,000         60,000         60,000         60.000
EDEEON              (46.5/kg)-          -               -             9,240         12,940         27,720         30,030        64,680         69,300        103,950        00350          103,950        138,600        103,950         103,950        13.,600
o-eu plu.  nai.  of groundn.ut hby                     - _                          54.000           -             2.500        55.600          1.900          1,660         56,400          1,500          1.500         55.500           1,800          1 800
Sub-tEtO1 A         32,700          80,240        117,680        188,130        172,270       242,820        312,080        308,990        308,760        305,850        344,000        417,890        414,240         364,590        388,600
Trcoght eff.et Scb-Totul   29,430           72,220        105,910        169,320        155,040        215,540        280,870        278,090        277,890        347,270        309,600        376,100        372,820        32C,130         349,740
D. A100,ou7oens d Credit
Nolsinitence *110,tce                 51,000           9,000           -              -              -              -             -              -              -              -              -               -              -              -              -
Lg.d nîenrioo  1I2gnoo  3/            12,000           4,000         12,000                  -              -              -              -                      -             -               -              -              -              -              -
Credit 0,,en                          30,000            -              -              -              -              -             -              -              -              -              -               -             -               -              -
Cr-dit LI0pl7nn                       26.745            _            10,300           -            23 245                                                                    13.545
S.b-tota1 B        121,745          13,000         22,300           -            28,245           -             -              -              -            13,545           -               -             -               -              -
-rono         15co=e  151,175  85,220        128,210        169,320        183,20)        215,540        280,870        278,090        277,890        360,815        309,600        376,100        372,820        328,130         349,740
C, Production Costa
Seede - Millet          4kg/h.            56             168            168            112            112            168            224            168            280            168            168            168            224            224             168
Gtroudoetn   100kg/h.         3,750           7,500          7,500          8,438          7,500         13,125         11,250         13,125         11,250         11,250          9,375          9,375          9,375         11,250          11,250
So-ghum         7kg/hb          -               -                98           147            196            196             98            196             98             98            196            196            196             196            196
Mon"e          20kg/hb          -               -               150            150            300            300           300            600            300            600            600            900            600             600            600
Seed Tr-ot=ont
Moi.e: 300 g/lOOkg .eed d]              -               -                 6              6             12             12             12             23             12             23             23             35             23             23              23
Othe.-  200 g/1OOkg .eed-               _               _                 3             62             E2            159            157             82            11            156            161            162            161            122             122
nffle DDTr  2 59g/lOOkg ctop             -               _               128            135            304            338           338            675            338            675            675          1,013            675             675            675
F-rtili-e  _~
Millet 14.7.7 - I50 kg/ko               -               -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -             4,050          4,050          8,100          4,050          4,050          4,050
S-rgheur 10.21.21 - 150 kg/ko           -               -             1,800          3,376          5,400          6.300          3,600         8,100          4,050          4,050          8,100           8,100          8,100          8,100          S,100
Groundn-tn 8.18.27 - 100 kg/hb          -               -              -             2,250          3,600          8,400          9,600          5,400         8,100          10,000         00,800         10,800         10,800          8,100          8,100
HAine      8018.27 - 300 kg/kh          -               _             1,800          2.250          5,400          6,300          7,200         16,200          8,100         16,200         16,200         24,300         16,200         16.200         16,200
Moine  an 100 kg/hk                     _               _               600            750          1,800          2,100          2,400         5,400           2,700          5,400         5,400           8,100          5.400          5.400          5,400
Sorghu= cent 100 kg/hk                  -               -             1,200          2.250          3,600          4.200          2,400         5,400          2,700           2,700         5,400           5,400          5,400          5,400          5,400
H.nd toolo                             1,000           1,000          1,000          1,000          1.000          1.000          1,000          1,000          1,000          1,000          1.000          1,000          1.000          1,000          1,000
Noe ned Soedet                        28,745                                                         -              -                                                   -              -                      -              -              -              -
Plough                                  -               -            10,300           -              -              -              -              -             -               _              -              _              _              _              _
Gcttc_ S.ed.t Attlchent
Seeder Replnceen-t                      _               _                                            -                                                                        13,545           _              _              _              _               _
C-tt                                    -               -              -              -            28,245                          -                             -
M.itnt n..n.   fnro Iplne,oci           -              2,875          2,875          3,905          4,847          5,547          5,547          5,547          5,547          5,547          6,902          6,902          6,902          6,902           6,902
Purbhn.e ....                         30,000            -              -            30,000           -              -            30,000                                       30.000           -              -            30,000           -               -
Ouet. V-rnnee,  tc0                    3,000           3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000         3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000           3,000          3,000          3.000          3,000
Fodder P- reha,ro                      3.600           1.800          1.800            900          1.100                          -                     -              -              -              -              -               -              -
Tot-l C      70,151          16,343         32,428        58,731         73,498         51,145         77,126         64,916         47,593        109,264         72,050         87,551        102,106          71,242         71,186
D.  Net Inct-  before debtosrvice
fiR,ily c.o..ucti.c o-d tone.         81,024          68,877         95,782        110,589        109,787        164,395       203,744        213,174        230,297        251,551        237,550         288,549        270,714        256,8b8        278,554
E. Fouitv Cconumpttcc und Toces
210 kg/person            29,400          35,280         47,040         588000         558,00         55,900         50,500         50,000         30,00          58,800         58,800         58,800         58,800         58,800          58,800
Orcondeut  15 kg/perI oc              2,025           2,430          3,240          4,050          4.505          4,050          4,050         4,050           4,050          4,050          4,050          4,050          4.050          4.050           4,050
Nousing ncd M. aeNllneeu.            30,000           5,360                                  -             -                      -              -                     -                      -              -
Toc,,     CFAF 500/-ctiv-              1,500           2,000          2,500          3,000          3.000          3.000          3,000          3.000          3,000          3.000          3.000          3,000          3,000           3.000          3.000
Tot.1       62,925          45,070          52,780        65,850         66,305         65,8050        65,850         65,850         65,850         65,850         65,850          65,850         65,850         65,850         65,850
F. NOt Cnnh Iccome Before Debt
Service                                 18,099          23,807         43,002         44,739         43,482         98,545        137,894        147,324        164,447        185,701        171,700        222,699        204,864         191,038        212,704
G. Debt Service
0Oxe                                    -              7,441         14,882         14,882           -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -               -              -
Noe -nd Seeder                          -               -            12,774         12,774         12,774           -              -              -              -              -              _              _              _               _              _
Plough                                  -               -             2,545          2,545          2,545          2,545          2,545           _              -              _              _              _              _               _              _
Sender                                  -               -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -             3,348          3,348          3,348           3,34           3,348
Cn-t                                    -               -              -              -             6,981          6,981          6,9801         098i           6,981  6 981
T-t1O          -              7,441         30,201        30,201          22,300          9,526         9,526          6,981          6,981            -            3,348           3,348          3,348          3,348           3,348
H. Net C.nh I.n-ce After Debt
Service                                 18,099          16,366         12,301         14,538         21.182         89,019        128,368        140,343        157,466        185.701        168,352        219,351        201,516         187.690        209.356
1/  Cottcn preducrion  eorets ofabout CFAF' 16,225 (us$72.00/iecîore bulît intc the formioto  price; the inputs ore described ic Ac-ex 4
b]  Eqcieolect te n reduetion by 407, cf expected yields Oc I ye-r out cf4*ncd  calculnted ut on everege equal Oc 10-/ cf ov,,eoî predu,tctinP
3/  CFAF 6,000/ho fer Collic  treees Bcd CFAF 12,000/ha fcr reovicg recto from yeer I 0e yaea  3, wcith o Iiemir ef tvo hectreroN
4/ Applicable te ictenntfîed crpop  cony.x
5/  Ferrilitr faenmgate price 10 CFAF 24/kg._



SENEGA
TERRE  NEUVES II EESETTIIEST  AM ESETEN SENEGAL TEoeICM. ASSISTANCE PMJEGT
PLAN FOR A 10 RIA PARS! - MECOMICAL ClEaEIN  OP 2 RA
TEAR                                 1               2               3               4               S               6               7              O                9               10              il              12              13               14              15
LanA Entitlccet. ha                  10              10              10              10              10              10             10              10              10               10              10              10              10               10              il%
0acdll...ted, haî/                 3               4               S               6               7               O               9              10              10              10              10              1.0              10              i0n1
laAcleared ced  -rpped             3.0             4.0
talOn,                      O       ~       ~       ~      ~~                      ~~ O          1          1               I               I                               1III                                                                              S
TradttoflOI Cultîatîo    A   Y   Pl    A   Y(   O       A   Yo  P       A    y    P'  A   Y    P       A    Yi P      A   y    P      A   y    O      A   y    P         A   y    P     A   Y,  P       A   Y'  P       à   Y,  P        à   Yi P       A   y     P
Millet                         0.50,0.6-0.3   0.50,tflS=050,3   0.5xO.75=0.38  0.5.0.75=0.58 0.5.0.75m0.38  0.5x0.75-0.38  0.5x0.75=O.38  0.5c0.75=0.58  0.5.0.75=0.38   0.5o0.75=O.28 0.5.0.75=0.380.O5x0.75-0.38  05.50.75..0.38  0.5.0.75-0.380.,.-03
lro...dents                   0.500,c09.0.45  0.500.09 =0.45  0.5.0.9 =-0.45  0.5.0.9 =0.45 0.5.0.9 -0.45  1.5.0.9 =0.40  1.5o0.9 =0.45  1I5.0. -0.45  1.0o.09 =0.45   1.010.09 =0.45 1.00.09 =0.45   1.0.0.9= 0.45  1.0.0.9 -0.45  1.Otl.9 -0.43 1.0.0.9 -0.45
Inenifled ltîvation
Ourghue                                       0.50x1.0..0.5    0.75.1.1=0.03 101212 108513                     1.0,0.5=1.5    10.01.7=1.7    10.0,8           IO.=.8           .O.=.8           1.01.81011.8        .8=1.8      1.01.1.8.8 101S1.8              1.0.1.8.4.8
Malte                                          0.50.1.2=0.6    0.50c1.3-0.65  0.50.1.4=40.7  0.5Ox1.5=0.75  0.50.1.6-0.0   0.75,1.8=1.35  1.25,2.0=2.5   1.50.2.0,3.0   1.50.2= 3.0             1.50.2 -3.0   1.5002 =3.0       1.30.2- 3.0   1.50.2 ..3.0    1.50,2 -5.0
Groundout.                     1.25,1.0-1.25  1.50.1.2=1.8    2.0.1.25=2.5   2.50,1.3=3.25 2.50.1.35=3.38 2.50-1.4-3.5   3.0.1.45=4.35  3.0.1.5=4.5    2.01.L5=4.5    3.0.1.5=4.5               3 0.1.5=4 S   3.0.1.5-4.5       3.0,1.5-4.5   3.0.1.3-4.5    3.0.1.5-4.5
cetton-                                                        0.254.1=10.25  0.501,12=0.6  0.501,125=0.65 0.50.1.3=-0.65  0.75.1.55-1.01 1.25.1.4=1l.75  1.50.1.45=2.10 1 50.1.5=2.25   1.50.1.5-2.25 1.50.1.5-2.25   1.50.1.5-2.25 1.50.1.5,2.251.9.525
mi llet                        O 75.0.8=-0.6   0.00004           .0,50..0-0.3   0.30,.1=10.53 0.30,1.2=0.6   0.5001.2=0.65  0.50,1.4-0.7   0.50,1.4-0.7   0.50,1.4-0.7   0.50x1..07              .Oo.4-0 .7 0.50. 1.4-0.7   0.50.1.4-M.   0.31.0.    0.50,1.4-0.7
Total Production (tonal
Millet                                09              0.82            0.66            0.03             0.08           1.05            1.08            1.08            1.08            1.08            1.08             1.08            1.08            1.08             1.08
Oron, ua7.0                                           2.2             2,53.8383                                       3.95            4.80            4.958           4.95            4.95            4.95             4.02            4.95            4.95             4.95
Oo-Sh-                                -               0.5             0.83            1.2              1.2            1.2             1.7             1.0             1.8             1.8             1.8              1.8             1.8             1.8              1.8
maie                                                  0.6             0.65            0.7              0.75           0.0             1.35            2.3             2.0             2.0              2.0             2.0             3.0             5.0              3.0
Cotto                                 --                              0.25            0.6              0.63           0.65            1.01            1.75            2.18            2.22            2.25             2.25            2.25            2.25             2.20
1/   Pour  hectares allctaido  înatullatîo    n   aac             ae  hectare hy hectare for the acta uproot.d
AY -Vi dA  (ton/ha)-
P- Prduction (t.n..4



SENEGAL
T5055  NEUVS Il RESIETTLEISN ANS EASTERN SENEGAL
lEOSOICAI AS TANCE 150.350
FANS BUDGET2 - MECHANICAI 1154015G
TEkS                                   I             2             3             4               5            6             7              S             9              15            il             12            13             14            15
Mile     28/kg)                25,200         23,240        24,640        26.040          27.440       28,840        30,240         30,240        30,240          30,240        30,240         30,240        30.240         30,240        30,240
Sr,dm. <7/g                   45,900         60,750        79.650        99,900         103,410      106,650       129,600        133,650       133,650         133,650       133,650        1,6(50        133,650        133.650       153,650
Sog,.            28k)-                                14,000        2240           33.600         36,400       42,000        47, 600        50,400        50,400          50,400        50,400         5,400405060040
mal..           (30/kg)-                              18.000        19.50-0        21.000         22,500       24,000         40,500        75.000        90,000         190,000        90.000         90.000       190,000         50,000        90,000
Coîlo,,         <46,5/kg)  1/             --                        11,625         27,900         292,295      30,225         46,965'       81,375'       001,370        104,625       104,625         004,625      104,625        104,625       104,625
Og. pi,.. .&1..of gooood.t hy             -                                   - .  5.002.500                                  55.8000        1.90           1. 660    ~   56.400          1.500         1.0            5500          1.Bo0         1.80
S.b-to.t .1                  7110          11A           158,655       262,44          219.045      234,215       350,705        372,565       407,320        465,315        410.415       410,410        464,415        6075          410.715
g-,.ht eff.et  00-t,.1l  2/        3,990        104.391       142,790        236,196        197,140      210.794       315,035        335,3019      366,588         418,784       369,374        369,374       417.974        369,644       369,644
0,,bsI.tor.ea allo,,,aoa     ~51,000         9.000           -             -              -            -              -             -                                                                                         
0.0   lm5iag  -reit                200,000           --------                                                                                                                                         ----
Credit 0,t                             30,0                                                                                                                                                                               
Crg,8d1 it  ,pl-ta                      00745         10,300           -                          28.245         --                                                       13.545--                                                    --
040-total B                 309,745         19,300                                      28,245         -             --                           -             13,545          -              -             -              -             -
Gros. 1,,oom.        5~~~73,735     123,691       142,790       236,196         225.385      210,794       315,635       335,309         366,588       432.329        369,374       369,374        417,974        369,644      369,664
C. Prodotlon C-t1
Og.ed  - 10011,     4 kg/ha                140           112           112            112            112           112           112           112             112           112            112           112            112           112           112
G-o,d,et. 100 kg/h.             6,563          7,500         9,375         11,250         11,250       13,125        16,875         16,875         15,000         15,000        15,000         15,000        13,000         15,000        15.000
s-rie         kg/hl               -              112           147            196            196          196            196           196            196            196           196            196            196           196           1916
.81,       20' kg/h.a                            300           300            300            3060         300            450           750            700            750            750           7950           750           75075
T" .130g 1 ..k.d'                                      5             5             5               S            5             9             14             16             16            16             16            16             16            16
Oth-o.1200 g/100 kg ,.. d                _481          578            770           963            963          963          1,105         1,130           1,155         1,155          1.155         1.155          1,155          1,135        1.135
506,. 00T:250 g/100 kg eoop             -203                          219           236            253           270           456           844           1,013         1.015          1,013         1,013          1,013          1,013        1,013
10i11.t 14.7.7 - 150 kg/h.             2,825         1,000          1,000         1,000          1,00    .00          1,000         1,000          1,000          1,000         1        .000  1,800          1,800         1,800          1      ,000l'e
S-rgh-, 10.21.21-150 kg/ha              -            1,000         3.144          3,600          3,600        3,600          3,600         3,400          3,600          3,600         3,600          3,600          3,600         3.600         3,600
G-o,ht,1  0. 18.27-100 kg/h.           3.000         3,600         4,800          6,000          6,000        6,000          7,200         7,200           7,200         7.200          7,200         7,200          7,200         7,200         7.280
Mai,, 8.10.27 - 3001 kg/ha-                          3,600         3,600          3.600          3,600        3,600          5,400         9,000          10,000        10,000         10,800        10,000         10.000         10,800       10,800
Mai,,_ r.10  kg/ha                                   1.000          1,200         1,200          1,200         1,200         1.000         3,000           3,600         3,600          3.600         3,000          3.600          3,600        3.600
S-rgh,, orla 100 kg/ha                               1,200         1,000          2,400          2.400        2,400          2,400         2,400           2,400         2,400          2,400         2,400          2,400          2.400        2.400
1.04 10018                               1,000         1,000          1,000         1,000          1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000           1,000         1,000          1,000          1.000         1,000          1,000         0,000
NoosdS..d.r                             2807745                        --- -                       -              -              -                    -                     -              -              -                     -             -
Pl-Egh                                    -           10,300           ----                                                                                   -------
Cotton 0.04., Attaoloet                   ----                                                     7,000                        --------
S.,4dv R,plî.o.t                          -----                                                                   ---            -                                        13,545-                                       ---
C.r                                       --                   -                     -            28,245          -             -             -               -----
m.loîtooa f-o  Ooplaaat.                 2.875         3,905          4,847         4,847          3.347         5,547         5,547          5,547          5,547         6.902          0,902          6,902         6,902          6,902         6,902
P-rha,, o,e                             30, 000         -              -           20,000           -             -           30,000          .                           30,000           -              -30,000                      - 
OsaI Vftoîoee, etc.                      3,000         3,000         3,000          3,000          3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000           3.000         3,000          3.000         3,000          3,000          3,000         3.800
FoU,.- p-oîh-.                           1.800           900            500          -               -            -----                                                      -                    -                     -
Total C                     280,429         41,115        36,619        70.509          76.471       43,118        81,000         56,493         57.189        102,089        58,544         58,544         88.544        56,544        58,544
D. Net Th-=o b.f00- 4,1  evt     e
£mily toe.~tiee 4d t-0e              93.306        82,576        106,171       165,687        148,914       167,676       234,635       278,816         309,399       330,240        310.830        510,830       329,430        311.100       311,1000
E. F4011y Coat,1o  44 T-0,
C.r..l. 21 0 kg/p.r.oe                  29,400        35,280        47,040         50,000         50,000        50,000        50,000        50,000          98,800        30.000         50,000        50,000         5.8080         58.800        58.800
Oîooodooot  15 kg/P-...                  2,025         2,430          3.240         4,050          4,505         4,050         4,050         4,050           4,050         4,050          4,050          4,050         4.050          4,050         4.850
000...    404 -d1M,0,1140,..            30,000         5,360           -             -               -            -.-                                                -                     -                             .             - 
Tala, CF/A! 500/.ottve                   1,500         2,000          2,300         3,000          5,000         3,000         3,004         3,000           7,000         3,000          3,000          3,000         3,000          3,000         3.000
Tot.l                        62.925         45,070        52,780         65,850         66,305       65,850         65,850        65,850          65,850        65,850         65,850        65,850         65,850         65,850       65.850
P. Not 00,h Ieoo,o  Bofore Doht Servte        30,381        37.506         53.391        99,837         82,609       101,826       168,785       212,966         243,549       264,390        244.980        244,980       263,580        245,250       245,250
G. DcOt ServIe,
Oss                                       -            7,441         14,882        14,882            -            -             -              -                             -             -              -              -             -             -
000 .1d Se.d-r                            -                          12,774        12,774         12,774          --                                          ---- .                                                     ---
Plog                                      -            2,545          2,545         2,545          2.545         2,545          ----                                                                      ----
S,,,r-                                                                        -                            -             -                     -              -              -            3,348          3,348         3,348          3,348         3,348
C,r                                                     -              -             -             6,981         6.981         6,981         6,981           6,981           -                    -                     -              -             -
MeOh.oiOg  04010                                                                   34,523          34,523       34,523        34,523         34,523         34,523         34.523        34.523         34,523        34.523         54,523        34.523
Total1                                       9,986        30,201         64,724         56,823       4.4,049        41,504        41,504          41,504        34,523         37,871        37.871         37,871         37,871        37,871
N. Nat Ca,h 1oo.e  Aft-r 0D1 Serolto          30,381        27,520         23,190        35,113          25,786       57,777       127,281        171,462        202,045        229,867       207,109        207,109        225,709       207,379       207,379
1/  C0tte p_od..tlo  00010 of Oboot CFA!' 16,225 <US$72.00/too)Oo- Ouilt lot  th. fOoNioto prîco; th, inp.tt  ,  dotctthod 80 Ao,ou 4.
2/  E           t1oaer  0      baoto   y 402. 0f OoP-tîd yi.1dt  I,  700  out of 4, Oed talclI.td e,a   vrg   qoal t0 107. of -eo   productio..
5S/  Applito..l  t0 loteaîfi  .-4trp. oely.
4 F,Il,rf-,gt10 poîoo 1, 09A2 24/kg.



SENEGM
TERRES NEUVES Il RESETTLEMENr AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTA.NCE PROJECT
GOVERNMEnT REVENUES PROM AORrI URAL PRODUCTION  1/
(CFAF Million)
PY 2     PY 3       PY 4       PY 5       PY 6      PY 7       PY 8       Py 9       PY 10    Py l       py 12       PY 13      PY 14    PY 15-20
A. Groundnuts
Economic Farmgate Price per ton          62.8      59.2       56.1       54.4      53.9      61.4       69.8       79.0       89.2    100.4       105.4       110.7      116.3      122.1
Farmer'e income per ton                  41.5      41.5       43.3       46.6      49.9      53.3       57.1       61.1       65.3      69.9       73.4        77.1       81.0       85.0
Total Production (tons)              385       925      1,350      1,735      1,975     2,170     2,430      2,710      2,760     2,770      2,770       2,770      2,745       2,765
Government Revenue                    8,200    16,373     17,280     13,533      7,900    17,577    30,861     48,509     65,964    84,485     88,640      93,072     96,899    102,582
B. Cotton
Economic Farmgate Price per ton          -         -          87.8       94.6      101.4    108.5      116.1      124.3      133.0    142.3       149.4       156.9       165.0      172.9
Farmer' Income per ton                   -         -          65.0       69.9       74.8     80.0       85.6       91.6       98.0    104.9       110.1       115.6       121.4      127.5
Total Production (tons)               -         -          60        194        313      362        496        762      1,093      1,270     1,345       1,390       1,390      1,435
Governinent Revenue                      -         -       1,368      4,792      8,326    10,317    15,128     24,917     38,255    47,498     52,859      57,407     60,604      65,149
Total Govermment Revenue           8,200    16,373     18,648     18,325     16,226    27,894    45,989     73,426    104,219   131,983    141,499     150,479    157,503    167,731
Total Goverument Revenue, with
drought effect 2/               7,380    14,735     16,783     16,493     14,603    25,105    41,390      66,083    93,797   118,785    127,349      135,431    141,752    150,957
1/  Current prices (IBRD Projections to PY 15 and 5% thereafter); production figures averaged PY 15-20.
I/ mpact of probable droughts causing a 407% drop in production every four years calculated as an average ennual los6 of 102.



sEnEGALi
TERIES IWVES II REBEElNE T AMO EAmBEN SIEA.L
TECHNICAL ASSISTINCE FiOJECT
GOVEHNHENT  CASH FIOW  1/
CFA! Million
F  91     PY2       py 3       P   4     Pf 5       F   6     py         F  P8        j       FPY 10     n9l       PY 12      n  13      Y V14     F   15     PY  6      r  17        18      PT19      PT 20
A.  Sources
IDA Credit                                            90.0      157.5     112.5      67.5       22.5        -                                         -         -                               -          -                  1 4        7           -          -
Crop  Stabilit tiar sorpîuses  2/                      -          7.4      14.7       16.6      16.5       14.6      25.1       41.4      66.1      93.8      118.9      127.3     135.4      141.8      151.0     156.5      166.4      174.8     Id3.5      127
Taxes  3/                                              -         33.4      39.2       21.5      14.0        8.4       9.3        9.8       9.4       10.4      12.4       14.1      15.7       15.2       15.1      16.6       D93        23.S      30.1       40.3
Eupaysiest cf long tercsl bass <sschasicî lîI nd
cle          gtirh                      l           -          -         -          6.9      13.8       15.5      15.5       15.5      15.5      15.5       15.5       15.5      15.5       15.5       15.5       8.6        1          -
Total Sources                                         90.0      198.3     166.4      112.7      66.8       38.5      49.9       66.7      91.0      119.7     146.8      156.9     166.6      172.5      181.6     183.7      187.4      198.3     23.6       233.0
B. Acviirattooe
Civil Warks  4/ +  eohostiol lard cl.aring           124.7      155.2      34.5                        -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -               -               -         _     _
EquiFment 4/                                          24.1        8.7       8.0                  -          -         - -4-                -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -
lubsidies  S/  6/                                       3.5       7.8      10.9       13.1      15.5       17.1      19.3       13.8       15.7      15.9       9.8       11.0       11.8      12.4       12,9       13.1       -8        U.5        15.2      56.0
Allvwasoes  5/                                         11.4      52.1      38.0        0.2       2.2        -          -         -         -          -                    -          -                    -          -         -          -          -          -
MauE,eoest Caste  5/                                  25.2       41.3      61.6       55.8      23.3       25.2       19.3      20.6      22.0       23.6      25.3       27.0       28.9      31.0       32.5       34.1      35.8       37.6       39.5      a.5
oSb-total  -ertl    Caponents                        188.9      245.1     153.0       69.6      40.8       42.3      38.6       34.4      37.7       39.5      35.1       38.0       40.7      43.4       45.0       47.2      49.6       52.1       54.7       57.5
Studios  nd Ivestosnt Proposais                       44.6       48.0       -          -         -
D.bt Serice  1/                                        0.3        1.3       2.3        3.0       5.3        3.4        3.4       3.4       3.4        3.4       7.0        7.8        7.8        7.7       7.7        7.7       7.6        7.6        7.6        7.5
Total Applifatio.s                                   233.8      294.4     155.3       72.6      44.1       45,7       42.0      37.8      41.1       42.9      42.9       45.8       48.5      51.1        52.7      54.9      57.2       59.7       62.3       65.0
C.  F       Co   hFMt Cash Solo1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
N.t Cash Flou                                       (143.8)    (96.1)      11.1       40.1       22.7      (7.2)       7.9      28.9       49.9      76.8     lOi.9      111.1      118.1     121.4       128.9     128.8     130.2      138.6      151.3      168.0
C-aulstive Cash FloT.                               (143.8)   (239.9)   (228.8)   (180.7)   (166.0)   (173.2)   (165.3)   (136.4)    (86.5)          (9.7)     94.2      205.3      323.4     444.8      573.7      702.5      832.7     971.3   1,122.6   1.290.6
1/   Current  trms (ofîatlor  it vêtus of Sot.-sntiot 1 ind« ta PY 14 sd 5% thecsêftsv).
2/   B.sed or I1BD price prooJctio.s   (oy, 1975)   s-d a f.rmg-te price for ground-uta ddolrifig boet-sc  PY I sud PY 3 frou CFAF 37.55/kg to CFA7 32.0/kg if  1974 t-ros asd r foogats pritc  for cottor equivaleot ia 1974 te    et 46.5/kg.
3/ durez 7 Table 6
4/   Includes phye         l  cotingecies   d ppetad prcri
4/   Irriodas -phyitd prcst i-r.e.o.e.
6/   Rock phosphate provided as a F9act, other fertiliesrs subuidised at the rate of 501. of coats, 1976 to 1981 snd 25% of .o.t thoereftvr.
7/   Ayornt rsrainig to be paid cf IA credit  ft-er PY 20 is CFAF 405 million.



xéNfiY 13
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC RATIL OF RETURN
1.        The following assumptions have been used in the rate of return
calculation in Table 1:
(a) Project Life. The project is assume.1 to have an economie
life of 20 years, the expected life of the main capital
investments.
(b) Costs. Cost figures are based on 1974 prices. They include
all the incremental investment and management costs of STN
and Government departments detailed in Annex 7, Tables 2,3
and 4, plus additional management costs between PY 5 and PY 20
required to ensure the full development of settler farms.
Costs also include all the purchased farm. inputs detailed in
Annex 7, Table 3 for PY 1 to PY 20 and family labor costed at
the value of production of a family engaged in subsistence
agriculture (para 3). Costs exclude taxes, subsidies and
expenditures on pre-investment activities.
(c) Benefits. Yields and output are detailed in Annexes 9 and 11,
and benefits are based on total production estinated for settler
farms. Production estimates include a provision for drought
everv fourth year, equivalent to a 40% loss of output. Groundnut
and cotton output is treated as exports and cereals as import
substitution. The economic farmgate prices are based on the
Bank's projections and details are in Annex 10.
2.        Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity of the rate of return has
been tested against changes in costs and benefits due to price and production
variations and the results indicate that the project would be justified
economically under most conceivable circunstances.  Details of the sensitivity
analysis are in Table 2.
3.        A rate of return has also been calculated costing family labor at
zero. In this circumstance, the rate of return is estimated to be about 20%.



>  e  Vl Ol  L  Z  Table2
o~~~~~~ I     
ONa   N  =  O   I        N I   1 O 
I_            , 8=   |   4N- s N   NOrN'| 
iS       st    g o      Vl    r- -4  N         Cos
I             z    ~    o       N  =N      r ON   D\
-          rMo   r N -a  vi ONN
I~ ~~~~~~ NO Ni         -  4  N  N I          NI
I . ~~~~~~~~N Oj I o  ,r -4 
>1   S  Q  °  e  8       2      -a      g  N _     r
4-              o              N  N  N  N  Njl °-- - ~   -4    I 
I          ° °              ' r°-  O   NN    oN  uO   c r 
N1                            is         20                    j                 a  DOr  Ne_
O~~~~ |m»mqN rN zC4_N_ 
N_ON  ND N   N N r O :
N  N   O                                 ON-a <t°N  _                            Ors   o 
- r-  nfr =w  0222212a
çN  O                                     ar
-r4=    _1                         -   s1r  N  N  O2    . 
g o r w -| ~t  2<j<D                                             Or
2~~~~~~~ aa
N  Nv I                                          
sq   vl c               bc        W           -     -  ' VI  d
t Vl Vl >1 1 a >1 » v W v oa -c<
81  vl 11    I                                         ru    a _           Ova_   r    
o1  CI  4$l  4lg              2                            N    O   °V1 s ~ °V
ol       ~           ~ ~ ol             a  r           o I  r      ear
4   r  -   r-  o  a  N~~~~~~a  a Oro         i
a    O       Or    ,r  r, -- s     a   e                        n



Annex 13
Table 2
,WNEGAL
TERMS NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT AND EASTERN SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN CALCULATICN
Sensitivity Ana2ysis
______;_______% of Appraisal Estimate 
-_----------Costs -----------               Benefits            ROR
Capital                  Other
100                      100                   100                24
125                      100                   100               IL
110                      110                   100                12
100                      100                    75                 7






SENE GAL
ANO E$E _   /   `tTERRES NEUVES II RESETTLEMENT
AND EASTERN SENEGAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AF  R  1C  A` «W   v, ;<I
oKEDOUGOU L.s; r ;   I   POirrLl
.,- 4 S ```                                                               ` ,,  /*f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iô-dre
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 r\ tror,r =                       rois o  sM^
ogf.  D.g-i.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~M       frn seirsie.rdrî.
~~~~'  lu~\>  SoÇrs
O.NA RiG                N     A.
_._.  Ei  |  S   q   A   U          ,}       X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- X  ronolm 0,^    _ tÉw~~~~~M AL 
BA I -  -  -  - I _._ __/__ ___ IÉ I _ , __, _,, _ _ _ . ....................... __ __. . ......... ._ 1 __1. ._ _ s b __ __ _ t1 .'
'O-50                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL PARK  CO>  S-ror
ErfO7 KEDOUGOI>
0  i NC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                               ~Frrs
B  1 s s A  u~~~~~~~
G  U  1 N  E A'     ~E






IBRD 11273
14 .1    ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ 6r--~~~~                                   MAOICH 1975
r ==~~~~~~~~~~~~~-< ~~~~~OMENTOUM                                                         -j,  \ y< d g|t.b   
mNGHEUL                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - J__ fr~ /e0<tv4\
(St <       / Xvsv       Aroaof Map   \MALI
-ILj
/  V   N    \/a            Bgueyenel      ^ D8alam     L -              <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oumOUSANAR                                                                     GUEA1f /S c          'GiJN? _
°\Mdn  T-ee\ . agnej 0                                                   0 lllrdaftttltrle
0    \                                                                         00 _</I;                       V        i               K11/n                            /
V 7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  ,,ieV',o lzîupVw
\  g  \  V12g \ ua 0 X / X & j S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SENEGAL
du "Il   0 v.7,o   /  \ H/    ;          @                           .  \                 /          S                  /TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT  E
'.1 \                      K-d5wnatna°g 2~V.9                                                     Mù2 Kungouln*,  /  K                           ASSISTANCE    PROJECT  
V                                                                                                                                                  ERR Vl4   _   <>  _   O   MAKi 9/>  g / IiA-f  SETILEMENT AREA
Q0      VILLAGESTOBEESTASLISHEDUNCERTHEPROJECT
\       VILLAGES ESTABLISHE oNDERTHEPILOTPROJECT
O  EVISTING VILLAGES
ACCESO TRACKS TO BE CONSTRUCTES UNSEI THSE PROJEAT
ORAVEL SUAS TO BE CONSTRUTTEVUNOER THE PRVJECT
O/\\  | 4 )   9     _ _ GRAVEL ROADO CONSTRUCTED UNOER THEILE PROJECT
. .. . . . . . . . .RAVEL RCA00 Os 8o CONSTRSUCEO RY PUBLIC WORKS SEPASTMENT
GARVELSROAUS
RAILAS 4A 
INTERMATIURAL BOANUARIES
KILOMETERS
SENEGAN.S<SIS                                        -S@t*63O                                                                                                                     e ,tc 42N1_ .   1$



