CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 578 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Terres Neuves Resettlement Project)
*                                 BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 6, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 578 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Terres Neuves Resettlement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 6, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1975, between the REPUBLIC              OF
SENEGAL      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0 1. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "STN" means the Societe des Terres Neuves, a public establishment
of the Borrower created by Law No. 7 1-063 of November 30, 1971 and operating
under Decree No. 72-44 of January 25, 1972;
(b)   "SODIFITEX" means the Societe' pour le Dcveloppement des Fibres
Textiles, a corporation (Societe' anonyme d'Economie Mixte) organized and
operating under the laws of the Borrower; and
(c)   "First Resettlement Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 of the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association
dated June 18, 1971 and "First Credit Agreement" means such Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.0 1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Except as providled in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance


﻿4
with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on account
of expenditures for consultants' services under Part 13(3) of the Project until the
Borrower and the Association shall have agreed on a draft plan for the integrated
agricultural development of Eastern Senegal and, in the case of' the health study
under Part B(1) of the Project, until the Association shall have agreed on the terms
of reference for such study.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of' the proceeds of the Credit, shall be pirocUired in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of' such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of' three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I';) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from   time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Cedit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1985, and ending May 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1905 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1J) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (0-1/2') of such principal anmount.
Section 2.08. The currency 01' the lrench Republic is heIreby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause STN to carry out Part A of the
Project and shall carry out Part B thereof through its Ministry of the Plan, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, economic and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Proceeds of the Credit allocated to the financing of Part A of the
Project shall be made available by the Borrower to STN in the form of a grant.
(c)   In the carrying out of Part A(6) of the Project, STN shall utilize the
extension services of SODEFITEX for an initial period of one year, under a contract
containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Prior to the end of such period, the Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views in order to agree on the arrangements necessary for the c.,rrying out of'
such Part of the Project until the completion thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall emlploy consultants whose qUalifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
and shall promptly assign to work with such consultants qualified and experienced
counterpart staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of' Use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable iml a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their prepraration, the plans, specifications, contract documents and wodk and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land or rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, in agreement with the Association, shall
determine the specifications for the secondary roads to be constructed uinder Part
A of the Project.
Section 3.07. Within six months of the (late of this Agreenit, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a detailed plan satisfactory to the Association for
the annual surveys of the First Resettlement Project and of the present Project.
Section 3.08. In carrying out the settlement program included in the roject,
the Borrower shall cause STN to employ in Koumpentoum a project manager with
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.09. For the purposes Of carrying out Part A(5) of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause the National Development Bank of Senegal (BNDS) to
make available to STN   the funds required for seasonal credits to settlers for
fertilizers, seeds and insecticides and for medium-term credits for draft oxen and
implements, such credits to bear interest at two percentage points above the
discount rate of the Central Bank and be for terms of twelve months in the case
of seasonal credits, and five years including one year's grace in the case of
medium-term credits, which terms and conditions shall not be changed without
prior consultation with the Association.
Section 3.10. The credits accorded to farmers for mechanical land-clearing
under Part A(4) of the Project shall be provided at a rate of interest two percentage
points above the discount rate of the Central Bank and for terms from ten to
fifteen years including periods of grace of up to three years.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and shall cause to be
maintained by STN, records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained  appropriate accounting   practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of toe Project, of STN and of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause STN to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association: (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the reports of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested, and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and Inancial statements of STN and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause STN to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause STN at all times:
(a)   to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, agricultural and  banking practices and  under the supervision   of
experienced and competent management, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers; and
(b)   to operate and maintain its installations, equipment and other property,
and promptly as required make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound business and engineering practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the roads and tracks constructed
under Part A (2) of the Project be adequately maintained by its Ministry responsible
for public works,


﻿8
Section 4.05. During the first year of implementation of the Project, the
Borrower and the Association shall exchange views on the details and the timing
for the transfer from STN to cooperatives of credit and marketing responsibilities.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to
remove from the land settled under the Project settlers who fail to carry out the
terms of their contracts of settlement with STN.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the classrooms constructed under
Part A (2) of the Project to be adequately staffed and maintained by its Ministry
of Education.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof,
namely, the legislation under which STN has been created, or any provision thereof,
shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated in such a way as to prevent
the Borrower from carrying out its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the agreement between STN and SODEFITEX referred to in paragraph
(c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement has been entered into; and
(b)   the Borrower shall have completed arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for making available for use promptly when needed in carrying out
the Project all funds required for the purpOse, such arrangements to include the
establishment of a revolving fund in an adequate amount.


﻿9
Section 6.02. The date October 15, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.0 1. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist re des Finances
Rue Charles LafnO
Boite Postale 40 17
Dakar, Senegal
Cable address:
Minifinances
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1618 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s / Andr6 Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s I R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                      544,000          80% of local
expenditures
(2)   Vehicles; land-                   48,000          60% of local
clearing tools                                     expenditures,
or if imported
directly for
the Project,
100% of foreign
expenditures
(3)   Mechanical land                  I60,000          80% of local
clearing                                           expenditures
(4)   STN personnel                    206,000          80% of local
expendituLes
(5)   Extension                        112,000          80! of local
services                                           expenditures
(6)   Consultants' ser-                284,000          100  of foreign
vices other than                                   expenditures or
annual surveys                                     80% of local ex-
penditures
(7)   Ministry of the                   30,000          80( of local
Plan costs, Part                                   expenditures
B of the Project,
other than for the
annual surveys
(8)   Annual surveys,                   48,000          1004 of foreign
Part B of the                                     expenditures or
Project                                            80/ of local ex-
penditures
(9)   Unallocated                      568,000
TOTAL          2,000,000
0


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that
if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof: to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of (a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or
(b) expenditures under Categories (4), (7) or (8) unless the Association shall have
approved the salaries and allowances on account of which the withdrawal is
requested.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred


﻿13
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the continuation of the Borrower's farm-settlement program
in the Eastern Region to benefit about 600 additional families, and includes the
following Parts:
Part A      (1)   establishing nine villages for 450 settler families, and installing
150 families in existing villages;
(2)   constructing 8 settlement officer houses, 9 stores, 1 2 classrooms,
76 km of village access tracks, and 25 km of secondary roads;
(3)   constr :ting 9 wells for new villages and rehabilitating about
15 wells for existing villages accepting settlers;
(4)   providing settlers with tools and grants for manual land clearing,
with credits for mechanical land clearing and with subsistence
allowances;
(5)   providing settlers with seasonal and medium-term credit facilities
for agricultural inputs; and
(6)   providing farm extension services to such settlers.
Part B      The preparation of a rural-sector master plan and of investment
proposals for an integrated agricultural development project in Eastern
Senegal. This Part would comprise:
1)   preparing a draft master plan based on existing information on
the region, annual surveys of the First Resettlement Project and
of the present Project, and a health study;
(2)   establishing terms of reference for surveys and feasibility studies
required to prepare investment proposals for an integrated
agricultiral development project suitable for financing from
exterffal sources; and
(3)   completing the master plan described in Part B( I ) above and
carrying out the surveys and feasibility studies required to
prepare the project described in B(2) above.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for the construction of three wells under Part A(3) of the Project,
estimated to cost in total the equivalent of about $100,000, shall be awarded
following local advertisement for competitive bidding according to the Borrower's
usual procedures, modified if necessary to provide for public opening of bids and
for awards to the lowest evaluated bidder.
2.    All other construction shall be carried out by the Borrower or by STN.
3.    Vehicles and equipment shall be purchased on the basis of competitive
quotations.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
0          1.    With respect to the contracts for the wells described in paragraph A.1 of
this Schedule:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association.
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the -aid
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform  the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿16
2.    With respect to all contracts, two conformed copies of the contract shall
be furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


