Document of
The World Bank                  V1\E Cr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2635-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
October 25, 1979
This docursent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipents only I the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwis be disclosed witht Worl Bak authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =   Pakistan Rupees
US$1   =   Rs 9.90
Rs 1  =   US$0.101
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP   -    Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
IRRI   -    International Rice Research Institute
SCARP  -    Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
GOP    -    Government of Pakistan
NWFP   -    North West Frontier Province
SBP    -    State Bank of Pakistan
WAPDA -    Water and Power Development Authority
AETI   -    Agricultural Engineering Training Institute
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -  June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:        Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
Amount:              US$30.0 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Ter s:    The credit proceeds will be on-lent to ADBP at
annual interest of 4% and with repayment over
20 years, including five years of grace. GOP
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The project would finance, through loans to farmers
by ADBP, medium and long-term agricultural investments
in farm mechanization, minor irrigation, land improve-
ment, canal lining and livestock including work oxen.
Through the project the direction of ADBP lending would
focus progressively on smaller farmers. The project
would include technical assistance and have substantial
institution-building characteristics, being designed to
enhance the development impact of ADBP and improve its
financial viability and administrative efficiency.
The principal risk is that these institution-building
objectives would not be fully achieved; their realiza-
tion will require the active, strong support of GOP.
rThi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of teir official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                        Local Foreign  Total
----US$ Million-----
I. Development Loans
Tractors                  28.8   90.2   119.0
Minor Irrigation           11.1    4.6    15.7
Implements/Equipment    23.9    8.4    32.3
on-farm Development        11.2     -      11.2
II.  Seasonal Loans               16.6    1.9    18.5
III. Technical Assistance
and Training                  2.4    2.0      4.4
Total before
Contingencies           93.9  107.1   201.0
IV.  Price Contingencies          23.1   13.9    37.0
Total Project Cost /a  117.0  121.0   238.0
Duties and Taxes           13.4    -       13.4
Total Project Cost       103.6  121.0   224.6
(net of duties and
taxes)
Financing Plan:                                                Total
(US$ Million)
IDA                                30.0
IFAD                               30.0
GOP/ADBP                          142.2 /b
Sub-borrowers                      22.4
Total                           224.6
Estimated Disbursements:                    IDA FY    1980   1981   1982
----US$ Million---
Annual                       7.5   10.5   12.0
Cumulative                  7.5   18.0   30.0
Rate of Return:            Above 50%.
Appraisal Report:          No. 2472-PAK dated August 6,  1979.
/a   Totals may not agree due to rounding.
/b   Net of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A FOURTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of
US$30.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a fourth agricultural
development bank project. The credit would be on-lent to the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) at 4% per annum interest and with repay-
ment over 20 years, including a five-year grace period. The International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is providing a further $30 million
for the proje!ct on similar terms to the IDA Credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Fifth Plan Review" (No. 2394-PAK, dated April 12, 1979) was distributed
to the Execut:ive Directors on April 18, 1979.
3.        Economic performance during the 1970s compares unfavorably with the
record of rapid growth of output and exports during the 1960s. GDP has grown
at about 4.0% per annum in real terms, compared to more than 6% during the
1960s, and rapid population growth has meant that there has been little
increase in per capita incomes. Output in the major productive sectors
(agriculture and manufacturing) has risen even more slowly than GDP - at
about 2.5-3.0% per annum - and GDP itself achieved a growth rate of 4% only
as a result of expansion in construction, government and service industries.
During the last two years some expansion in manufactured value added exports
and agricultuiral output has taken place, although some major crops have
continued to suffer setbacks.
4.        To a considerable degree this disappointing performance has been due
to factors outside the GovermLent's immediate or direct control.  The 1970s
began in crisis with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh, and
there followed a series of economic and climatic misfortunes which undermined
the basis for growth. These included a poor monsoon in 1974/75 and serious
floods in 1972/73 and 1975/76,, as well as the petroleum crisis and the subse-
quent world recession. Moreover, political instability and uncertainty have
continued to have serious economic implications. However, the policy response
to these problems has also in many respects been inadequate, contributing
significantly to the economy's disappointing performance. Changing attitudes
to the private sector, illustrated by a series of nationalizations that began
in 1972, had a depressing effect on private investment, while legislation
served to increase real wages in the industrial sector at a time of other
cost increases and increasingly difficult export markets. Major increases
in public investment have mor,e than offset declining private investment, but



-2 -
public investment has been concentrated in capital-intensive, long-gestation
projects which in many cases have yet to result in increased production. This
investment contributed to a massive deterioration in the trade account, itself
aggravated by Government policies designed to protect the consumer from the
implications of stagnating production. To finance imports, and to cover
serious shortfalls in public saving, the Government resorted to heavy borrow-
ing from abroad, including a major increase from OPEC countries during the
mid-1970s. Workers' remittances have increased very substantially over the
last few years, but a very large trade deficit and rising debt repayments
have imposed a serious strain on the balance of payments while the problem of
domestic resource mobilization has continued to constrain economic development.
5.        A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment and mea-
sures have been implemented which go some way towards solving the country's
serious resource management problems. The issue price of wholemeal wheat
flour to the public was recently increased by 25%, an important step towards
reducing the high level of subsidies. The agricultural processing industries
(except the vegetable ghee industry) have been denationalized, the area open
to private investment has been greatly extended, credit and tax incentives
(especially for export) have been improved and improvements have been recorded
in the labor situation. Agricultural support prices have been maintained, and
in some cases increased, and an effort is being made to improve input avail-
ability to the farmer. Finally, a review of Government investment and related
priorities was undertaken in the context of the preparation of the revised
Fifth Plan which, while still over-optimistic in many of its projections,
recognizes the need to redirect the pattern of economic development away from
large public industrial and other long gestation projects and towards the
agricultural and social sectors.
6.        These measures have in part been responsible for the first upturn
in the economy since the FY73/FY74 commodity boom. GDP rose by more than 6%
during FY78 and the available evidence suggests continued expansion in FY79.
Nevertheless, despite some favorable developments, prospects for future growth
remain uncertain. For the immediate future, this uncertainty relates to
worrying trends in the overall fiscal and monetary management of the economy.
Despite several tax and tariff increases in the FY80 budget which was
announced in June, the budgetary outlook has not improved; and the prospects
are for continuing large budget deficits as in recent years. These threaten
to accentuate inflationary pressures and could lead to serious balance of
payments problems. For the longer term, the most disturbing features are
continued low levels of productivity in agriculture, the lack of any signif-
icant recovery in private investment and the rapid growth in population.
7.        Despite the fact that the economic situation provides little room
for maneuver, and despite the policy changes that have already taken place,
further measures appear essential if the basic issues limiting economic growth
in the longer term are to be adequately addressed. These issues include the
farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the structure
and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind conti-
nued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expendi-
tures; the deterioration in the performance of public sector enterprises and
the administrative machinery generally; the low elasticity of tax revenues



-3-
and the problems of public rescurce mobilization; and the large trade deficit
and the continued dependence on capital inflows from abroad.
8.        Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.  Repeated set-
backs in agriculture have, however, undermined growth and thrown doubt on the
input-based sl:rategies followed in recent years. The FY78 wheat crop was
attacked by rust and, for this and other reasons, declined by 10%. This
setback fortunately was temporaLry and a sharp recovery in wheat output was
recorded in FY79. Also of concern have been the persistent problems besetting
cotton; production in FY79 fell to 2.7 million bales compared to nearly 4
million in the early 1970s, but the current crop, not yet fully harvested, is
said to be very encouraging and likely to reach 3.5 million bales. Rice
production in FY80, similarly in the process of being harvested, is also said
to be very good. The sugar crop, on the other hand, has been poor recently,
and it is clear that despite encouraging signs a number of fundamental factors
continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential
implied by the resources and technologies already available. Thus, while
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer and
other inputs, it appears also essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which have a direct impact at the farm
level. Major improvements are possible in the water delivery system and in
the general level of agricultural practices.  High priority therefore needs to
be given to watercourse improvement programs, to investments designed to
reverse water-logging and salinity and to projects designed to establish a
systematic and effective research and extension service.  Without such initia-
tives, agricuLtural growth in the longer term will suffer and the benefits
from the avaiLable inputs and resources will remain well below their technical
potential.
9.        Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production have, however, declined from about 10% per year during the 1960s
to little over 2% during most of the 1970s, although since the present Gov-
ernment came to power there has been some recovery in both manufacturing
value added and exports.  The major structural change in the industrial sector
since 1973 has been the expansion of the public sector from about 10% to about
25% of industrial assets.  Private investment has declined markedly as a
result of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation, labor problems, adverse
export market conditions and problems in raw material supply. The textile
industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of value added in large-
scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency, excess capacity
and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manufacturing growth
generally has been affected by the poor performance of public sector enter-
prises. A recovery in world markets and export incentives have together
contributed to a recent revival in yarn exports, but a more fundamental
improvement in industrial investment depends on a period of reasonably pro-
longed stability and a shift in the overall balance of production towards
higher value added products whi.ch are responsive to market opportunities and
preferences. Also important will be progress in, and results from, oil
exploration for which there appears to be considerable potential.



- 4 -
10.       While it is clearly vital to re-establish a base for more rapid
growth in the commodity-producing sectors, it is also true that rapid growth
in population, currently running at about 3% per annum, has seriously handi-
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have unfortunately had little effect and there have been few changes
in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines
in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on Government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved health
facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population
growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain
comparatively low and undue emphasis has been given to such elements as higher
education and urban health facilities. High priority needs therefore to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social service
expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the
population and the economy.
11.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. Domestic resource mobilization has become a major prob-
lem area in the economy. Public sector development expenditures increased
from 5.5% of GDP in FY71 to 11.2% in FY77 and to an estimated 10.3% in FY79,
while non-development expenditures more than trebled. Public sector savings
declined, and indeed were negative from FY72 to FY75, although they recovered
and remain marginally positive. The scope for non-inflationary domestic
borrowing has been limited and financing public expenditures has become
heavily dependent on external and domestic bank borrowing. Foreign assistance
financed no less than 70% of development expenditures in FY76 although this
fell to 46% in FY78 because of a decline in aid disbursements. To improve
domestic resource mobilization, additional taxation and improvements in tax
administration are needed; non-development expenditures must be restrained,
possibly through selective reductions in subsidies; and the contribution of
public enterprises should be enhanced, for instance through tariff increases.
Given the limits to domestic and external borrowing, and the constraints on
increasing revenues and decreasing current expenditures, it remains essential
to limit the size and adjust the content of the public investment program.
Emphasis needs to be given to providing adequate resources for agriculture and
other areas where substantial and rapid increases in production and exports
appear possible, as well as to the social sectors, which have been neglected
in recent years. Conversely, the proportion of resources devoted to capital-
intensive industrial and long-gestation projects should be reduced.
12.       The external position has been greatly assisted by rapidly rising
workers' remittances from abroad, notably from the iddle East; these rose
from US$130 million in FY73 to US$578 million in FY77, to US$1,166 million
in FY78 and to an estimated $1,400 million in FY79. This increase has, how-
ever, been more than offset by a massive deterioration in the trade balance
with the result that the current account deficit increased from about US$130
million in FY73 to more than US$1,000 million in FY75. The huge increase in



- 5 -
remittances reduced the current account deficit to $600 million in FY78 but
the deficit again rose to over $1 billion in FY79, largely due to a 30%
increase in the value of imports, itself in part the consequence of last
year's poor wheat crop. While suspension of debt payments to Iran, short-term
borrowing and a run down in international reserves kept the external sector
manageable in FY79, the options for FY80 are much more limited. Scheduled
debt service will rise substantially and net aid flows--according to Government
figures--will remain at only about $350 million. Allowing for a somewhat
lower current account deficit than expected by the Government, a $200 million
loan from Saudi Arabia to the Zakat Fund, and additional short-term financing,
the gap remaining to be financed appears to be in the region of $200 million.
Foreign exchange reserves at present are very low and will remain tight unless
additional resources (e.g., from the IMF, debt relief or quick-disbursing
non-project aid) become available.
13.       Total external debt outstanding at the beginning of FY79 amounted
to about US$7.0 billion of which US$3.76 billion was due to bilateral members
of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.0 billion to OPEC, US$1.08 billion to multi-
lateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders.
Contractual debt service to multilateral and bilateral aid agencies rose from
US$313 million in FY73 to US$397 in FY78 although the burden of these payments
was eased to US$200 and US$261 million respectively as a result of debt relief
arrangements. The four-year debt relief agreement with Consortium countries
expired on June 30, 1978, and as no further agreement has been reached debt
service payments will rise steeply. In FY79, contractual payments are expected
to amount to around US$535 milLion and considerably more in subsequent years.
As a proportion of exports, non-factor service payments and workers' remit-
tances, debt service rose from about 15% in the FY75-77 period to around 17.5%
in FY79. Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability
to borrow to meet future requirements, and to restrict commercial borrowing to
a minimum. For this reason, Bank Group lending to Pakistan is currently
confined to IDA credits. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of
FY78 was about 15% of its external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank
Group in total debt service is now about 9%.
14.       Pakistan's resource endowment, especially in the Indus Basin system,
is substantial and during the 1960s the economy demonstrated a considerable
capacity for growth. Rough estimates suggest that the economy could grow at
perhaps 5-6% per annum over the next five years, and that this could be
accompanied by a wider distribution of the benefits of growth than was
achieved during the 1960s. A start has been made in the process of policy
adjustment, but it is clear that a wide range of further initiatives are
necessary to deal with the causes underlying the economy's disappointing
performance in recent years. Only if these new policies and programs are
pursued consistently over a number of years will the basis for longer-term
improvements in living standards for the population as a whole be established.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.7 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. Through FY79, 38% of total commitments were for
public services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for
industrial imports) and 2% for education. Lending for public services has
amounted to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommu-
nications and water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture
was for Indus Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through
the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC).  For most
projects for which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now
going ahead satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are
that the rates charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with
inflation and, hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30,
1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries. The most important
part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the Government's
program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by controlling salinity
and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and groundwater. The
Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant for
improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
17.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
18.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the



-7-
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have worked with
municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city.  A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of the plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with a low f.oreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases.
19.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Projects under appraisal include a
third higlhways project, third WAPDA power project, and a further credit to
PICIC. Preparatory work is proceeding on a Karachi bulk water supply project,
a grain storage project, a further irrigation and drainage project, and a
vocational education project.
20.       IFC has made investments in eleven Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$63.6 million, of which US$54.2 million was by way of loans and US$9.5
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$29.4
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a
shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN PAKISTAN
The Agricultural Sector
21.       Agriculture remains the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It
accounts for roughly one-tlhird of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force
and, directly or indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of Pakistan's exports
(principally cotton and rice). The irrigated area accounts for about 90% of
farm output. The complex irrigation system based on the Indus and its tri-
butaries covers an area of about 33.5 million ac and constitutes the largest
system in one river basin in the world. The rainfed areas lie largely in the
north and northwest, being concentrated in regions where rainfall averages
more than 400 mm per year.
22.       Agricultural growth in Pakistan during the 1960s averaged almost
6% per year, due mainly to the introduction of high yielding varieties of
rice and wheat, increased use of fertilizer and the rapid spread of private
tubewells. Since the early 1970s, however, the rate of growth has failed to
keep pacet with population. While certain minor crops have performed well,



- 8 -
value added in the major crops was only 8% higher in 1976/77 than in 1971/72
and only 5% up on the exceptionally good year of 1969/70. This slow growth
can in part be attributed to a series of climatically unfavorable and polit-
ically disturbed years. However, it is clear that there are also more fund-
amental factors which have restricted growth. Yields for the new varieties
are far below those achieved under comparable conditions in other countries.
Indeed, although average yields of wheat and rice have risen through the
introduction of HYVs, the yields of the HYVs are considerably lower than in
the late 1960s. It would seem that this is due, at least partly, to poor
cultural practices. Although the setback to wheat production in 1977/78 was
mostly in Punjab (see paragraph 8), the susceptibility of the new varieties to
rust reflects unfavorably on Pakistan's plant breeding programs. Cotton has
also faced a series of setbacks, the most recent being in the past year when
heavy rains and associated pest attacks cut production to well below the
levels achieved in the early 1970s.
23.       Pakistan's ability to sustain faster growth in agricultural produc-
tion will depend not only on programs to increase the availability of water
and other inputs but, more fundamentally, on establishing ways in which the
available resources can be used more efficiently. Programs to increase the
timely availability of water, fertilizer, insecticide, and certified seed will
continue to be important, but past experience has shown that increased avail-
ability is not enough to ensure their satisfactory use. Greater priority
must, in particular, be given to developing new policies and programs that
have a direct impact on removing constraints on productivity at the farm
level.
24.       To ensure the success of farm level programs, inputs need to be made
available in adequate quantities and at appropriate dates, and farmgate prices
must be maintained at levels which encourage their use. Recent increases in
procurement prices and reductions in the prices of fertilizers have improved
price incentives, although the large subsidy on fertilizer imposes serious
burdens on the national budget. However, there is still room for major
improvements in the water delivery system, in general land and water manage-
ment and in the standard of farming practices. It now seems certain that the
losses in the watercourses are much higher than originally assumed and that,
in part, this explains why cropped areas have failed to respond at the expected
rate as supplies of water increased. Watercourse improvement programs are
being initiated but the scope of these is insignificant compared with the
need. In addition, cultural practices have changed little since the early
1960s despite the introduction of high yielding varieties.
25.       Small farmers having less than 12.5 ac constitute over 67% of the
farmers in Pakistan--although they account for only one-third of the total
farm area.  In the past, the major benefits from increased inputs and improved
technologies have gone to the larger farms. Research and extension need to be
geared to generating and spreading technologies appropriate to the smaller
farmers, and special measures will be necessary to ensure that they benefit
from future programs aimed at augmenting production.
26.       The need for broadening agricultural strategies to include farm
level and related programs was identified and discussed in detail in a Special



-9 -
Agricultural Sector Review, distributed to the Executive Directors in March
1976. 1/ Since then, a number of projects have been initiated in Pakistan
or are under active consideration which take this need into account. They
include the Seeds Project and the Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project, approved by the Executive Directors in FY76; the Punjab
Livestock Project and Third Education Project (which includes an important
component for agricultural training), approved in FY77; the SCARP VI Project
and the Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project, approved in
FY78; and the SCARP Mardan Project and the Sind Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project, approved in FY79.
27.        Following the Sector Review, and in order to assist the Government
further in carrying out the new strategy for agricultural development, the
Bank has identified further projects in the fields of agricultural extension
and research; agricultural credit; irrigation, drainage and salinity control;
foodgrain storage; and water management. Funds for project preparation are
being provided through a number of on-going projects.  In addition, the UNDP
is financing the preparation of a Revised Action Plan for the Indus Basin
(with the Bank as Executing Agency) and has indicated its willingness to
support the strengthening of project preparation capacity in the Federal
Ministry and Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
Agricultural Credit in Pak:istan
28.        In 1965/66 institutional credit for agriculture in Pakistan amounted
to Rs 137.8 million. By 1967/68, this had more than doubled to Rs 387.3
million. A decade later, iin 1977/78, annual institutional lending for agri-
culture had reached Rs 1.9 billion. Of this, about Rs 1.2 billion or 65% was
seasonal credit (loans repayable within 18 months) and the remainder medium
and long-term loans. However, despite this massive growth in institutional
credit in Pakistan, probably more than 70% of all agricultural credit is still
provided from non-institut:Lonal sources such as commission agents, money-
lenders, landlords, relatives and friends.
29.        The principal agricultural credit institutions are the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP); the Commercial Banks (CB); the Federal
Bank for Cooperatives (FBC) and the four Provincial Cooperative Banks.
Lending targets for these :institutions are set by the Agricultural Credit
Department (ACD) of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) and are reviewed by the
National Credit Consultative Council. ACD subsequently monitors the perform-
ance of the institutions in achieving these targets.
30.        Of the various credit institutions involved in lending to agricul-
ture in Pakistan, ADBP is substantially the largest. The cooperative banks
were recently established and are still small. The commercial banks mainly
provide short-term seasonal financing and tend to focus on larger farmers.
The combined medium and long-term development lending of the five commercial
banks engaged in the agricultural sector amounted to Rs 430 million in 1977/78,
compared to Rs 385.8 million provided by ADBP for the same purposes.
1/   Report No. 922a-PAK



- 10 -
31.        ADBP was established in 1961 by the merger of the Agricultural
Development Finance Corporation and the Agricultural Bank of Pakistan,
founded in 1952 and 1956, respectively. ADBP is wholly Government-owned
with GOP owning 98% and the Provincial Governments 2% of the current paid-up
capital of Rs 232.5 million. The Bank is administered by a 12-member Board.
The Chairman is the Chief Executive and is appointed by GOP. ADBP's sources
of funds are capital contributions from GOP and Provincial Governments;
borrowings from SBP, including loans from multi- and bilateral lending
agencies that are onlent through SBP; and deposits by customers. ADBP con-
ducts its operations through a network of about 120 branches and 50 sub-
branches and, to an increasing extent, through mobile credit officers.
32.        ADBP has in recent years had serious financial and other problems.
In part, these problems have stemmed from the fact that ADBP has been used
from time to time as an instrument for implementing welfare-type programs
on behalf of GOP. These activities, particularly so-called "emergency
lending," have generally been incompatible with sound banking practice.
Emergency lending has usually been undertaken after national disasters such
as floods and drought when GOP has required ADBP to carry out extensive
lending in affected areas. In these operations, ADBP has had to disburse
its own funds against the recommendation and certification of Revenue Depart-
ment officials. ADBP's record of recoveries from emergency loans has been
poor and such lending has tended to reduce credit discipline, impair staff
motivation, and generally to affect ADBP's financial position adversely.
33.        The Loans for Agricultural Purposes Act of 1973, which introduced
an agricultural passbook system to provide access to information on land
ownership, generally facilitated agricultural lending processes but reinforced
a latent tendency in ADBP at that time to disregard the financial, economic
and social merit of its lending. ADBP's lax lending procedures, together with
the effects of emergency lending, resulted in substantial overdues and seriously
undermined ADBP's financial stability. These difficulties were compounded
by losses incurred in erstwhile East Pakistan and by the inadequate spread
allowed ADBP on its borrowings from the State Bank. As a consequence of
these various adverse factors, funds have not been available for building
reserves or making provision for bad and doubtful debts. General Reserves
have remained virtually unchanged since 1972 at a negligible Rs 4.7 million,
while Special Reserves in 1978 were only Rs 9.5 million.
Bank Group Involvement
34.        Between 1965 and 1976 IDA provided ADBP with US$67.0 million, in
three credits (76-PAK, 117-PAK, and 157-PAK). The first of these credits,
for $27 million, was signed in June 1965 and reimbursed the foreign exchange
costs of tubewells ($10 million) and farm machinery ($17 million). By early
1967, it was evident that ADBP did not have sufficient resources to continue
its lending program. The second credit, signed in June 1968, was a short-
range bridging operation; IDA provided $10 million and the Swedish Inter-
national Development Authority $5 million. The third credit, for $30.0
million, was made in 1969 and closed in 1976. The project financed the
purchase of about 8,000 tractors and 4,600 tubewells.  Disbursements against



- 11 -
tractors were substantially larger than anticipated at the time of appraisal,
due to heavy demand from farmers, while financing of tubewells fell short of
the original expectations. The Audit Report on this project is discussed in
paragraphs 37 and 38 below.
35.       Because of ADBP's poor financial situation, consideration of a
further IDA credit to ADBP, requested in late 1973, was deferred. However,
in the face oi- continuing GOP requests that the Bank appraise a Fourth
Project, IDA missions to examine ADBP and its operations visited Pakistan in
March 1976 and July 1977. Following the 1976 mission and in line with IDA
advice, ADBP t:ook advantage of a British technical assistance grant to employ
a consulting iEirm to examine its organization, accounts and procedures.
Following the 1977 mission, IDA listed in detail the reforms that should be
undertaken if ADBP were to be considered for further IDA support.
36.        In :Line with these proposals, GOP and ADBP have now made substan-
tial progress in implementing financial and administrative reforms at ADBP.
GOP has increased its equity in ADBP, permitting the latter to attain a
debt/equity ratio of 7:1, and has waived liabilities of Rs 124.3 million
incurred by ADBP in the former East Pakistan. GOP has also agreed that it
would not require ADBP to undertake "emergency" lending in future except in
the event of a major natural calamity, and then only as a disbursement agent
for GOP funds (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). ADBP
has geared brianch lending to recoveries and improved its overall recovery
performance in 1977/78 by 12 percentage points to 48%. In addition, in October
1978, GOP appointed the ex-head of a leading commercial bank in Pakistan as
Chairman of ADBP. Under his leadership, major changes to reestablish ADBP as
an effective development institution, and to direct its lending principally to
small farmers, are being implemiented. A reorganization program, designed with
the aid of the British consultants, was introduced in February 1979 as part
of these changes. The consultants are continuing their work, which will be
expanded and extended to December 1980. Other changes to revitalize ADBP
have been agreed under the proposed project and are described below.
Project Performance Audit
37.       The Project Performance Audit of Credit 157-PAK by the Operations
Evaluation Department 1/ concliuded that: "The agricultural impact of the
project has been positive, and estimated ex-post economic and financial rates
of return 2/ exceeded the original estimates. However, the source of the
achieved growth has been different from original assumptions. The real pro-
duction expansion of the project is mainly attributable to the increase in
the cultivated area, assisted by tractor, and to a lesser extent to the higher
cropping intensity based on tulbewell irrigation and mechanized cultivation.
1/   "Project Performance Audit Report;  Pakistan-Third Credit for Agricul-
tural Development Bank (Credit 157-PAK)," OED report No. Sec M78-559,
dated June 30, 1978.
2/   40% and 50% respectively.



- 12 -
Tractor use itself results in little direct yield increase. A shift in the
cropping pattern also contributed to the rise in the value of output. The
socio-economic impact of tractorization under the project in the context of
introduction of intermediate mechanization (of cultivation but not harvesting
operations) has been substantially consistent with recorded experiences in
other countries such as India and may be summarized as follows: (a) while
the rate of return on tractor investments was generally satisfactory, actual
increases in yields and cropping intensities were substantially less than
forecast at appraisal; and (b) tractorization led to displacement of tenants
by the land-owner, as far as farm operations were concerned. However, the
aggregate demand for farm labor was not significantly reduced because the use
of tractor also created new demands for labor."
38.        The assessment of OED has been taken into account in designing the
proposed project. In particular, both through this project and through the
IDA-supported agricultural extension projects, advice would be provided to
farmers specifically designed to promote more intensive cultivation practices,
to promote use of smaller tractors and other farm equipment tailored to small
farmer needs (including farm mechanization and minor irrigation equipment),
and to strengthen on-lending criteria which will address the complementarity
of investments in minor irrigation and farm mechanization.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was appraised in the field in October 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington during May 30-June 1, 1979; the Pakistan
delegation was led by Mr. A. Jamil Nishtar, Chairman, ADBP. A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 2472-PAK), dated August 6, 1979 is being distributed separately.
Project Description
40.        The project would span approximately the three fiscal years 1979/80
to 1981/82 and would finance, through loans made to ADBP, medium and long-term
agricultural investments, mainly in farm mechanization and minor irrigation
but also in other economic activities such as land improvement, canal lining,
and livestock including work oxen. The project would progressively move the
direction of ADBP lending to smaller farmers and have substantial institution-
building characteristics, being designed to (a) enhance the development impact
of ADBP and (b) improve its financial and administrative efficiency. The
former would be achieved by the adoption of full loan appraisal involving
assessment of the financial, economic, and social impact of loans made, by
paying particular attention to the needs of smaller farmers and amending
procedures to facilitate the making of loans to this group, and by the active
promotion of technologies appropriate to the needs of different categories of
farmers and agro-ecological conditions. The improvements in financial perfor-
mance and administration would be achieved by continuing with the reforms and
reorganization now underway and introducing additional measures to improve
efficiency.



- 13 -
41.       The proposed IDA credit would finance a proportion of the costs of
ADBP loans made for the following purposes:
Minor Irrigation       -  tubewells, lowlift pumps and other minor irriga-
tion equipment;
Farm Mechanization    -  tractors, tillage implements, threshers, drilling
rigs and other farm equipment;
on-farm Development   -  land leveling, canal and drain construction and
lining, storage, and tree planting and similar
activities; and
Livestock              -  dairy cattle, work oxen, poultry and other farm
livestock.
42.       The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would
participate in financing ADBP's lending program; a $30 million IFAD loan for
ADBP was approved by IFAD's Board on June 26, 1979. IFAD would contribute
in parallel with IDA towards the cost of development lending. Additionally,
IFAD would finance ADBP's seasonal lending; the costs of improving Provincial
Agricultural Engineering Training Institutes (AETIs); the employment of
internationally recruited experts; and the costs of office equipment and
transportation for ADBP credit officers.
43.       The project would be countrywide and cover all areas now served by
ADBP branches, which include the areas of highest agricultural potential in
Pakistan. Further details of the project components are provided in paragraphs
51-63 below. All farm operators whose principal occupation is in and whose
income is mainly derived from agriculture would be eligible for ADBP loans
under the prc.ject. However, to ensure that smaller farmers benefit to a
greater extent than in the past from ADBP's operations, at least 50% of all
medium and long-term loans made by ADBP in the first year of the project would
be to farmers with less than 25 ac, and this proportion would increase to at
least 60% in the second year and to at least 75% in subsequent years. In
addition, at least one-third of the above-mentioned loans would be made to
farmers with less than 12.5 ac (Section 2.07 of the draft ADBP Project
Agreement).
44.       Farm models indicate that, in irrigated areas where cropping inten-
sity averages about 110%, annual incomes of owner/operator farmers range from
about Rs 7,000 in the case of a 12.5 ac farm, to about Rs 14,500 in the case
of a 25 ac farm. These income levels are very low for irrigated agriculture,
reflecting the present low efficiency of Pakistan agriculture. Compared to
an average per capita income of $190 in Pakistan, per capita incomes of family
members on such farms are estimated to range from Rs 1,050 ($105) to Rs 1,750
($175) per arnum, respectively . The incomes of sharecroppers/tenants are
about 60% of these levels.



- 14 -
ADBP Lending Terms and Procedures
45.        Under the project full loan appraisal would be re-introduced grad-
ually for all development lending. The speed of reintroducing appraisals
would be determined by the availability of trained credit officers and branch
managers. Training has been planned to permit 45% of loans to be subjected
to full appraisal in 1979/80, 80% in 1980/81 and 100% thereafter, according
to procedures satisfactory to the Association. During appraisal of sub-loans,
particular attention would be paid to establishing the optimal investment for
the farm enterprise concerned, the merits of complementary investments and of
different sizes of tractors, and the possible labor displacement aspects of
investments (Section 2.08 and Part B of the Schedule to the draft ADBP Project
Agreement).
46.        Interest.  GOP is at present reviewing interest rates in the con-
text of the proposed Islamization of the economy. However, GOP has given
assurances that ADBP would charge interest of at least 11% per annum on its
loans. Also,ADBP agreed to increase the surcharge from 2% to 3% per annum
on the outstanding loans in the case of defaulters, and to introduce a once
and for all study fee of 0.5% on the investment loans.  This would mean a
positive interest rate over the project life, given the expected rates of
inflation for the next three years.  If ADBP's interest rates fell below
positive levels in real terms, the Government would take necessary measures
to achieve levels satisfactory to the Association (Section 4.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
47.        Security.  ADBP would abandon its present policy of always requir-
ing a first mortgage on land as security for its loans. Security would
principally be the capital items financed (para 3(b) of the Schedule to the
draft ADBP Project Agreement) and would include movable as well as immovable
property (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
48.        The estimated cost of the project, based on ADBP's expected lend-
ing levels during the project period, is US$238 million. of this, some $13.4
million or about 6% are taxes and duties. The total cost net of such taxes
and duties is US$224.6 million. The distribution of project cost by benefi-
ciary would be as follows: US$49 million would benefit farmers with less
than 12.5 ac; US$99 million farmers with more than 12.5 ac but less than
25 ac; and US$85 million farmers with more than 25 ac. US$5 million would
finance project training and technical assistance. Costs are based on late
1978 prices; price contingencies are calculated on the basis of 11% in
1979/80 and 1980/81 and 10% thereafter for the local component of costs,
and 6% annually for the foreign component.
49.        The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million would be made to GOP on
standard terms. The IFAD credit of US$30 million has been extended to GOP
on terms similar to those proposed for the IDA credit. The two credits would
cover about 13% each of total project costs. GOP would on-lend to ADBP,
through the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), the proceeds of the IDA credit,
US$21.5 million of the IFAD credit, and its own contribution of about US$130.5



- 15 -
million to ADBP's development l,ending program. These funds, totaling the
equivalent of US$182.0 million, would be on-lent by SBP to ADBP at 4% interest.
This would give ADBP a spread between its borrowing and lending rates of 7%,
which will be necessary at least for the next few years to enable ADBP to
cover administrative costs, make adequate provision for bad and c'"ibtful debts
and build up reserves. The size of the spread will be reviewed by July 1,
1982 and the results furnished to the Association for its consideration
(Section 4.04(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       The IDA and IFAD credits would be repayable by ADBP over a period
of 20 years, including a grace period of five years; the GOP's contribution
would be repaid in accordance with current practice by which ADBP and the
ultimate borrower's loan terms are matched. The IFAD contribution of $5
million to ADBP's seasonal lending program, together with GOP's contribution
of US$17.3 million for this purpose, would also be on-lent through SBP at 4%
interest, with the IFAD credit repayable over a period of five years includ-
ing a grace period of one year, and the GOP contribution repaid as indicated
above. ADBP wqould provide about US$5.7 million from self-generated funds to
meet the costs of its development lending program and about US$0.7 million
for its seasonal lending program. The IFAD and GOP contributions for vehicles
and equipment for ADBP, the employment of technical specialists and the
improvement of AETIs would be passed on under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
Project Components
51.       Minor Irrigation.  Tubewells financed under the project would be in
the yield capacity range of 0.25 cfs to 1 cfs. Presently, small-sized high-
speed diesel engines for such tubewells are not manufactured locally. ADBP
would take the lead in arranging for the import and distribution of these
engines and in promoting the installation of small tubewells. Assurances
were obtained from GOP that the import of such engines would be facilitated
(Section 4.06 of the Developmenat Credit Agreement). Pakistan would be able
to produce these engines domestically when a sufficiently large demand is
established. Small lift pumps would also be financed under the project,
comprising a pump and engine combination suitable for pumping from open wells
or other surface water source. Such investments would help GOP achieve its
goals of supplementing surface water and providing drainage to alleviate water-
logging and reduce salinity.
52.       Under the project ADBP would, in cooperation with Provincial Govern-
ments and other appropriate agencies, promote lending in areas with high
development potential (Section 4.07(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). For this purpose, collaborative efforts would be made through
inter-agency committees established on an area basis to identify and develop
areas of concentration for minor irrigation and other on-farm development
programs, for which detailed implementation schedules would be reviewed with
the AssociatiLon by December 31, 1979. In addition, ADBP would act as an
authorized agent of GOP and Provincial Governments to implement subsidy
schemes for groundwater development and other agricultural investment incen-
tive programs (Section 4.07(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
53.        Farm Mechanization.  A shortage of farm power is a critical con-
straint to the intensification of agricultural production in Pakistan. The
availability of farm power is inadequate for the increases in cropping
intensity that are possible with current supplies of water and other inputs.
Two factors in particular contribute to this situation. First, over the
last decade, the farm labor supply in rural areas has been reduced sharply
by migration of workers to the Middle East. Second, the work oxen popula-
tion (the principal source of farm animal power) has declined substantially
since 1960 on all sizes of farms. Although the number of tractors rose from
about 15,000 in 1960 to an estimated 58,000 in 1978, the present level of
power input in agriculture is estimated to be 0.12 hp per acre (0.056 hp
animal power; 0.016 hp human power; and 0.048 mechanical power) compared
with the generally recognized need in developing countries of 0.2 hp per
acre.
54.        The Indus Basin Research Assessment Group, a joint international/
Pakistan group sponsored by Ford Foundation and GOP Planning Division, using
data derived from the 1972 Census of Agriculture, has demonstrated that
farmers using tractors, either owned or rented, achieve a higher cropping
intensity that those who use work oxen, and that increases in intensity are
highest where water is in regular supply, for example in areas served by
tubewells. On such areas, which comprise about 20% of the irrigated area
in Pakistan, gains in cropping intensity as a consequence of mechanization
have been substantial.
55.       The small impact of farm mechanization on yields in Pakistan has
been affected by the fact that, for the most part, tractors have been used
as substitutes for oxen and to draw an implement (rigid tined cultivator)
that prepares a seed bed giving yields similar to those of seed beds prepared
by traditional methods. An exception is wheat, where timing of planting
is critical and the planting period coincides wih a sharp peaking of power
demand. Availability of a tractor at this time can permit yield gains of
about 15%. Additional increases can be obtained by using more sophisticated
implements that improve the seed bed or permit more accurate placement of
seed and agro-chemicals. These implements will be financed under the project.
56.       Loans would be made for tractors as well as cultivation implements
and equipment. Machinery so financed would alleviate the farm power shortage
in Pakistan and, in the case of planters, fertilizer drills, inter-row culti-
vators, and chisel plows, should result in higher area yields. Additionally,,
tractors and trailers would augment the transport capacity in rural areas.
Farm equipment likely to have excessive labor displacing characteristics,
such as combine harvesters, and equipment not proven under conditions in
Pakistan, would not be eligible for ADBP financing. Many basic implements
such as cultivators and threshers are being increasingly manufactured
domestically.
57.        Initially most tractor loans would be for the currently popular 45
hp tractors, which cost farmers about Rs 64,000 each. Larger tractors would
be needed by some borrowers because of soil conditions, particularly in Sind
Province. However, ADBP would promote the use of smaller tractors and other
appropriate equipment (Section 4.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Testing of such equipment is already taking place in Pakistan, and under the
project basic trials comparing different mechanized cultivation techniques
and the impact of different farm equipment, including the use of smaller
tractors, would be carried out in accordance with a program satisfactory to
the Association (Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Loans would be Larefully appraised to minimize the farmers' and the ADBP's
risk, and ensure the profitability of small farmer tractor investments
(paragraph 73).
58.       The thesis that tractors could be instrumental in displacing tenants
or labor on a significant scale does not appear valid in Pakistan today. The
current volume of tenant evictions (for all reasons) is small. The risk of
appreciable tenant displacement as a direct consequence of mechanization under
the project is not considered significant, particularly since more than half
of the recipients of tractor loans would be relatively small landowners.
Some reduction in on-farm labor requirements of current labor use may occur
but, since small farmers use little hired labor, most of this reduction
would take the form of reduced requirements of family labor.  With the imple-
mentation of more intensive agricultural development programs by GOP, of which
farm mechanization is a crucial part, the demand for labor in rural areas is
likely to increase.
59.       On-Farm Development.  Considerable scope exists in Pakistan for
on-farm development such as land levelling and construction and improvement
of on-farm irrigation and drainage facilities. There is growing awareness
that better cperation of the irrigation system and generally better water
management are essential for agricultural growth. Increased demand is
expected from farmers for loans for constructing or improving irrigation
channels and drains on their own properties, as well as for the improvement
of works of this type which are commonly owned. On-farm development works
would be undertaken directly by farmers or let out to contractors.
60.       Livestock and Other On-Farm Development Loans.  The volume of loans
for livestock and other on-farm development, though small in the past, should
increase steaLdily in the future as the impact of improved extension and
research services begins to be felt and as ADBP acts positively to diversify
its lending program. Loans would cover the cost of such items as cattle, work
oxen and equipment needed by farmers or landless peasants who want to parti-
cipate in livestock enterprises; poultry and sheep; grain storage bins; and
the establishment of orchards for citrus, almonds, apples and mangoes.
61.       Seasonal Lending.  ADBP's seasonal lending, using resources other
than the proceeds of the proposed Credit, will be restricted to borrowers of
development finance, thus providing them with a full service. It would be
held to approximately 10% of ADBP's total lending program (Section 2.09 of
the draft ADEIP Project Agreement).
62.       TraLining and Technical Assistance.  IFAD would finance the costs of
improving 11 AETIs located in Punjab and NWFP to provide facilities to train
farmers and equipment operators in tractor and implement use and repair.
Three internationally recruited agricultural engineers would also be financed
for a total of 36 man-months to help train ADBP and AETI staff; liaise with



18 -
the farm mechanization research and development agencies; and assist in the
formulation of ADBP policies relating to the financing of machinery and
equipment. Fellowships would be provided for an estimated 40 Pakistani
agricultural engineers for training overseas.
63.       During the three-year project period, all 250 existing ADBP credit
officers would undergo loan appraisal courses of two months' duration at
the ADBP Staff College and training would begin of an additional 140 officers
who would be recruited in the project period. The teaching staff of the
College would be reinforced by an expert in appraisal techniques; this expert
would be an addition to the team of management consultants now assisting
ADBP.
Procurement
64.        Procurement for items to be financed under development and seasonal
loans made by ADBP would be based on a system of farmers' choice under which
farmers would purchase goods from local dealers and arrange for contractors of
their choice. Competition is satisfactory for the goods and services to be
financed under the project.
65.       Vehicles and equipment required by ADBP and AETI would be purchased
following international competitive bidding procedures. For bidding purposes
goods would be grouped to the extent possible in procurement packages with
estimated values exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 each. Goods manufac-
tured in Pakistan would be granted a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f.
price or the customs duty, whichever is lower. Contracts for vehicles and
equipment which cannot be grouped would be awarded in accordance with GOP's
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable. Certain miscellaneous
equipment and vehicles with values not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000
for each contract may be purchased through normal commercial channels after
obtaining at least three price quotations, provided the aggregate expenditure
for items so purchased does not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
66.       Construction of buildings at the AETIs would be carried out by force
account or through contracts let by the Provincial Departments of Agriculture
following local competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory. The
work would be scattered throughout the country and be too low in total value
to be likely to attract international bidders. The contracts would be let in
a manner that would permit contractors to bid for the work at one or any
number of the sites in each of the provinces.
67.       The agricultural engineering specialists would be recruited inter-
nationally following procedures in line with IDA guidelines. Overseas train-
ing would be arranged directly with suitable institutions.
Disbursement
68.       To encourage ADBP lending to smaller farmers and for purposes other
than for tractors, varying rates would be employed for disbursement of the
IDA and IFAD credits against loans made for various investment purposes and
to differing categories of farmers. Thus, to emphasize minor irrigation and



- 19 -
on-farm development, only 18% of ADBP's expenditures would be reimbursed from
the IDA and IFAD funds in respect of loans for tractors to farmers owning 25
ac or less, whereas 67% of expenditures would be reimbursed by IDA and IFAD
in the case of loans for minor irrigation implements and other on-farm devel-
opment. To encourage lending to smaller farmers generally, the IDA and IFAD
funds would not be used to finance tractors to farmers owning over 25 ac.
Loan Recoveries
69.       ADBP's existence as a viable and effective development institution
is dependent upon its ability to improve its recovery performance. The indi-
vidual loan appraisals that it will carry out in future should reduce the
risk of making bad loans. In addition, ADBP will undertake a vigorous program
to collect outstanding dues, with the object of achieving loan recovery levels
of at least 60% by July 1, 1980, 70% by July 1, 1981, and 85% by July 1, 1982.
ADBP's branches will be required to achieve such levels to qualify for future
lending. As a first step in that direction, ADBP has begun to examine the
overdue accounts of its 10 branches that have performed most badly with a
view to writing off and rescheduling bad and doubtful debts. ADBP will by
December 31, 1979, furnish to the Association for its concurrence a phased
program to lie completed by December 31, 1980, for the examination on a branch-
by-branch basis of all overdue loans, including those extended in the course
of emergency lending. All outstanding emergency loans would be transferred
to a special. account and a collection effort initiated by ADBP in collabora-
tion with Government authorities by December 31, 1979. A provision against
bad or doubtful loans of at least Rs 170 million would be established by
July 1, 1980 (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement;
Sections 2.1L, 2.11 and 2.12 of the draft ADBP Project Agreement). In the
event that ADBP lacked the necessary resources for establishing an adequate
general reserve and provision against bad or doubtful loans, GOP would furnish
the required funds.
Monitoring and Evaluation
70.       In the three-year project period ADBP's role in the credit field
is expected to change substantially. Thus, it is essential that a monitoring
system be established to provide a prompt feed-back to the Chairman on the
pace of progress in such key areas as the introduction of loan appraisal,
training, lending for smaller farmers, non-tractor lending, lending for small
tractors, and loan recovery. Development and execution of an appropriate
monitoring system would be the responsibility of ADBP. ADBP also needs to
introduce a system of evaluation to provide data on the costs, benefits,
financial and economic viability and social impact of the main investments it
finances. ADBP would be responsible for establishing monitoring and evalua-
tion systems capable of meet-ing these needs. Some of the work would be
carried out by ADBP directly and some of it by sub-contracting to universities
and other suitable institutions. By December 31, 1979, ADBP would submit to
and agree with the Association and by March 31, 1980, implement procedures
for the provision of data on the costs, benefits, viability and impact of
its lending operations and for monitoring and evaluating the project (Section
2.14 of the draft ADBP Project Agreement).



- 20 -
Project Benefits and Risks
71.       The project would respond to the need for sustained flows of medium
and long-term investment credit for the agricultural sector. As a result of
the investments in minor irrigation, mechanization and on-farm development
financed under the project, farmers would be able to increase cropping
intensities and yields and bring more land under cultivation. Incremental
production induced by the project valued at economic prices is estimated at
Rs 1,966 million (US$199 million) annually by 1986.
72.       The project would progressively change the direction of ADBP lending
from larger to smaller farmers. Thus, within the three-year project period,
63% of all ADBP medium and long-term lending would be to farmers operating
less than 25 ac, with 21% of lending to farmers operating less than 12.5 ac.
Through project financing arrangements, 77% and 25%, respectively, of the IDA
Credit would benefit these categories of smaller farmers. ADBP would for the
first time dispense with the requirement of land mortgages for investment
credits, facilitating the participation of smaller farmers, including tenant
farmers, in its operations. The project would also have substantial insti-
tution building characteristics and should significantly enhance ADBP's
development impact.
73.       The  nature of individual investments in irrigation, mechanization
and on-farm development financed under the project would vary greatly with
circumstances such as the location, size and tenureship of the farm concerned,
thus making an assessment of overall rates of return difficult. The profit-
ability of tractor investments, particularly by smaller farmers, requires that
a proportion of tractor and equipment capacity be hired out. The demand for
tractor and equipment hire services is in fact strong, with rates ranging from
Rs 40 per hour for a 45 hp tractor to Rs 55 per hour for a larger tractor.
Assuming an expansion in cultivated area and cropping intensity as a conse-
quence of mechanization and a modest 15% increase in wheat yields through more
timely planting, it is estimated that hiring a tractor and basic cultivator
remains profitable at rates 50% higher than those now prevailing. It is
estimated that about 134,000 farm operators would benefit through services
provided by some 25,500 direct beneficiaries of the project. The overall
economic rate of return is estimated at above 50%.
74.       The project entails a substantial but acceptable degree of risk.
The principal risk is that the major institutional reforms contemplated at
ADBP - in particular, the strengthening of ADBP's developmental role through
redirecting its lending towards smaller farmers and through assisting the
adoption of appropriate farm technology - may not be fully achieved. During
the late 1960s and early 1970s ADBP's performance was seriously undermined
by outside interference in its activities, which resulted in the general
relaxation of appraisal procedures and collection efforts during this period.
However, various measures have already been taken by GOP to improve ADBP's
finances and administration, including the appointment of competent management,
and other major steps to continue this process will be taken under the project.
Successful achievement of the project's objectives will require a continuation
of GOP's full support for ADBP.



- 21 -
75.       More than half of the beneficiaries of mechanization loans would be
relatively small landowners. Tihe emphasis to be placed in ADBP's sub-loan
appraisals on the adoption of appropriate farm technology would be a safeguard
against adverse social effects. The farm models prepared in connection with
project appraisal indicate that the demand for hired labor would increase as
a result of project activities and that most of the reduction in labor
requirements would be in the labor of farm families, whose incomes would be
significantly increased by the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Association and ADBP, Punjab and NWFP respectively, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 25, 1979



-22 -                                              ANNEX I
TIOS 36
PgarsTA  - socIL INDICATORS DATA SET
PAUSTU III   C CE alOUmS (ADS  ALAES
LAID A     (THOUSAND S0. IM-T)                                           - Notr U CN T ISTE
TOTAL            03.9                                                SK         SAKE    NEXT hOSR
ACRICUMTURLA    244.2                               NMT RICZIT      GROGRAPC    3C>O         3COlt
1960 Lk   1970 reST=                 GIOu Nc     GRW iur  GRoUP j
GM? PU CAPIUT  (U5S                  60.0      130.0    230.0            191.1     209.6      467.5
anar coNSTsaioU PU CAPITA
(         oILOGRAMS OF COAL ZqorlALUT)  61.0  9S.0    151.0            69.1       53.9      262.1
AOPILATION AND VITAL STUTISTICS
POPLATIOK, MID-TM  (NL S5)    45.9            60.4      76.9
UnAM tpopUIJEOM  (PUCUK 0 TOTAL) 22.1        26.9      26.U           13.2       16.2        24.6
SONULATIOM PROJECTXO
POPMATINU TZA 2000 (Ka-LIM)                          139.0
STATIOU&*  POP5AT6 OU .OU)                           333.0
YEAk STAIORT POULAT   IS MOtD                       2135
PONLAIOSu DSITI
PU SQ. M.                       57.0        75.0      93.0           $6.6       69.6       U5.3
P  SQ. DO. AICULTUAL LAN    201.0          269.0    307.0           330.2      252.0      149.0
POPULATION AGE STUUCTURS (PUCT)
0-14 TB.                        43.8       U6.3       47.0           6.3        63.1       45.2
15-64 Yl.                        51.8        50.5      50.0           52.4       53.2       51.9
65 TBS. AND ABOVE                 4.4         3.2       3.0            3.1        3.0        2.0
POPULATIOU G3ON3 RATE (PUCT)
TOTAL                            2.3         2.8       3.1            2.6        2.6        2.7
13M                              5.0         6.0       4.1            4.1        *.6        A.3
C0110 BIRTH KATn (PI TUSAMD)    69.0          47.0      45.0           44.6       62.6       39.4
CRUDE DUTII &AT1 (PU T1USAD)    23.0          15.0      15.0           16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS urKPcHUTroU am               3.2         3.7       3.3            3.2        2.9        2.7
PAKMY PLANNING
ATCOPSU. DAOAL (IWOIANS)           ..     190S.1    28.0
Urns  (PUCUT OP MIEM       1)    ..           ..       6.0            7.9       12.2       13.2
FOOD AnD 1rTION0
INDEX OrFOD FLPDutlt
PU CAPITA (1969-71-100)         *3.0       102.0    103.0            99.4       98.2       99.6
PU CAPITA SupLY OP
CALO3nIs (PUCUT OF
ECQDI3S2S)                     56.0       94.0      93.0           93.0       93.3        96.7
PIINS (GRAMS PU DAT)            48.5        59.4      54.0           56.1       52.1       56.3
OF NIO  ANC AL ALMD PULSE      16. OLA1    14.0     14.3            10.4      13.6        17.6
CIIILD (AG   1-6) HoALTT US!    27.0          21.0      17.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
-ALT5I
LIT! UTOTAICT!   AT *S1 (TURS)   46.0         48.0      51.0           *9.1       49.3       54.7
I"MAT MORTALITY Rn  (PM
T80USAND)                         135.0A        ..       ..              ..      105.4       68.1
ACCZSS TO SAE wan (PUrT 0O
POPULATION)
T0TAL                              ..       21.0      29.0           31.5       26.3       34.4
URUN                              *-          *-      60.0           63.9       55.5       57.9
RURAL                             ..          ..      17.0           20.1       15.8       21.2
ACCESS O EmINTA DISPO5AL (PUCI1
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         3.0       6.0           15.7       16.0       40.8
URBN                               ..       12.0      21.0           66.S       65.1       71.3
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..            2.5        3.5       27.7
POPULATION PE  PHYSICIAN        11000.01f   4310.O0   3780.0X        7107.9   1139f.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER UniNG 1Er            ..      WAG. OL 10060.0o/h      12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PElt HOSPITL D
TOTAL                         2070.0      1870.0   2020.0          2738.4     117. L      726.5
URBAN                          370.0       500.0    570.0              *-      197.3      272.7
RURAL                         22850.0    12390.0  12360.0              ..    2445.9      1406.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL MM           ..         ..        ..              .       24.8       27.5
HO17SLNG
AVRAGE SIZE OF HOOSEIDL
TOTAL                            5.4         5.3       5.6/1           ..        5.3        5.4
tREAN                            5.6         5.5       5.9LI           *         4.9        5.1
RURAL                            5.4         5.2       5.4L1           *         5.4        5.5
AVEACE NUMBER OF PUSONS PER iOO
TOTAL                             3.1                  Z-.8L..
RA,,                              3.1         ..       2. 7L
RURAL                             3.1         ..       2.8L1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PECMNT
OF DWELLINGS)
.OTAL                                                 54 497.                   175        45 L
URBAN
RURAL                              ...                 4. 9z           .                    9.9



-23 -                                         ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
_ PAlI3TOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 511T
RIAEEREN5CE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYE.A(ZS
PAEStUM                      - IDST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAESAME  5U          mmT HIGHER
IIMT RUCEICENT  GOGRAUIC   INcOgE        DICOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb STIVATE Lb      RGION tc  GROUP /4   GROUP I.
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATlOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                30.0        44.0      50.0            59.5       63.3        82.7
MALE                 46.0        62.0     66.0            74.9       79.1        87.3
FEMALE               13.0       24.0      31.0            43.7       48.4        75.8
SEC0NDARY:  TOTAL                11.0        14.0      17.0            19.5       16.7        21.4
IIALE                18.0        22.0     25.0            27.8       22.1        33.0
FEME                 3.0         6.0       6.0            10.0       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENMDL. (E Ot SECONDARY)   1.0        1.5       1.5             1.3        3.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACUER RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0        41.0      42.0            42.2       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                        24.0        20.0      19.0              ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      15.OLL      20.0      21.0            25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSESCEt CAlS PE TEOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.0         3.0       2.8             2.3        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PU TUOUMSA
POPULATION                        3.0        14.0      16.0            15.5       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         0.7       1.8              ..        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CEMEiAL
NiTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 7.0          ..       5.0             6.2        5.3        18.3
CINEI1A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PU CAPITA  0.8        3.0/i      ..              ..        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TTrAL LAOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0     18100.0  20400.0.
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  8.7         9.3       9.9            21.4       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            60.8        58.9      58.0            66.3       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               17.9        18.7      20.0             9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.5        28.7      27.9            35.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                               55.2        50.4      48.6            52.3       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              5.7         5.5       5.7            15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.7         1.7       1.7             1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
iIGHEST 5 IERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.31      17.8      17.3              ..        ..         15.2
HICEEST 20 PERCENT Or HOUSEHOLDS 45.i37      41.8      41.5              ..         ..        48.2
LoWEST 20 '?ERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS    6.41      8.0       8.4              ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57      20.2      20.6              ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
EST1IMATED ABSOLUTE POVEITY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      91.0            86.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                              ..          ..      77.0            74.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY I21COME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      63.0              ..       91.9       179.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      65.0            50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED PC.PULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              .           ..      27.0            AA. 3      44.1        24.8
RURAL                              .           ..      48.0            52.6       53.9        37.5
Not avail.ible
Not applicable.
NOTES
'a   The adjuated group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values .f the indicator and the zast populated country in each group. Coverage of countries *ong the
indicat,rs depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia;  Id  Low Income ($280 or less per capita i976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
.976);  /f  Includes Bangladesh;  /g  1960-62;  /h  Registered, not all practising in the country;  !i  1972;
/i  1963-64;  /k  1962-65;  /1  1973.
Mtost Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
Auguat, 1979



- 24 -AhV7
pupiTrIOm IF SOCIAL IgPICATOiRS
Notes*  Although the data are draw  froa suesgenerally judged the meat atboritative sd reliable, it should also be noted that they may net be inter.-.
titonily europerahle beesus  of the lack of  tnadardiced deinition, sod concepts used by different countrise Jn oulleotLag the data. The data are, nonetheless,
...eful to deecrihe Orders of magnitude, indicate treads, and oharoote-isoefanal  major diff.arenoe  betsen coutrie..
The  4j,597tgfg3p,,,opy,,gq  for each  odieater are poplation-wighted gooometrie mesas, eneludiog the extreme, clues of the indiestor sad the meat poplated
ontr Kin so     itogr 1ii  to lawk of d.t., group average  of all ldieatora for Capital  "urpls Oil gapertera and of Indicators of Acceis to Water and Reerata
Dispo..al, Noosing, Iom.-  Riatribution and Peverty fee ethic coantry group  are population-weighted geomtric  mesa  without  -cluselo  of the contrn values sod
in relating avrge   fon  nictrtoaohe.Tag   vrae   rcislxueula   noodatos o   epetdf vle  we   oerettecleao
indicator at atin  s a . h  country and reference croups.
IAND AREA (thousad sq ha.)                                                              Accesa to flereta pitpsasl (prcent of pslaio) - totl urban   ad rurl 
_jLn-z Total aurfooe area comprielig land area sad inlad waters.                          Mter of Poople(oa,ubn   n   ua)sre  by ertadiaposals
AgIutrl- Moat recent estimate of sgricult-nal area used temporarily               Percentagso  hi   epecieppltoa   oeadsoa                               uld
orpractly for crops, pot kc,saht and kitchen gardens or to                       the colleoo   an d diposal, with or without treatmet, Of homa  -xrrta
lie fallow                                                                            and  csewtrby water-b-orn  ayiem   or the use of pit prides sad  -,.eila
GNP M   APITA  US$) -GNP pe  -pits ..tiast.. a  c-entsork.installations.
ISP PEPCAPITA(lOt)    GEP pr capit  esnimnco atcurren  marke  prsics,  Pecultio    e  Piwais  - PPoplatio -divided by number Of prstiotig piqrsicisa
-alculatcd by can  ecnvreino aetbod as World Sank Atlas (1976-1  bai)                   jifiedTiUoFi aal.   chool at umiveraity leve.
1960, 197, nod l97s data.                                                             Pon=ltion or gurain  Person - Population divided hy outer of practicing   le
ONSUKPrI     rTA- Annul consumption of comercle1 ecorgy                     and female graduate nuses, pratical cuse, sad assistant nureca.
anlgieptr o,an, notura  gas sod hydro-, nuclea  and gec-                popultIo  per Ssital Sadi- total urban  sad rura  - Population (total, urbno,
thermal slntrionty) In hIilogranof coal cquilva to per o-pita; 1960,                     and rrl       add by terrs te   ombr of hospIta  beds available in
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                     public and private, general and  pcialic-d hcstpita1 and reabailitation  center,.
Hospitals aru stbiheoepsemanently staffed by at leant one jdzyiician.
POPULiATION A5D VITAL STATISTICS                                                           Estxblichmsta pro-iding priocipaIly custodial cur  are ant leclded. earal
Ttal Po    tlato,,m-ermilos    As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                           hcnpitala, howevr, include health and medloaI  -eonrs oot permanently staffed
1977 data.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by apy  Io 'icis  (hut by o medical.. noietant, onres, alddife, eto.) which offer
UrhanPopultion 'Prcloet of total.) - Ratio of urban to total pupulatioo;                 io-patiest  oco.datioo  and proide a llaited range of medkica  facilities.
dfretdeficitions of urban areas map affet comparability of data                Admsslions per hoa pital BSad - Total oumhac of admioion. to or di.cbarges fro
sense coutrIes; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data,                                             hosptalsp divdd by the nu.mber of beAu.
Poultion Proj Otioss
POU& in  ear Y.    2     - Current populatic Projections ar  based cc       161019
195total  s.Ition by age and ceo and their  -etality and fertility             Aveag. lceo   omnholfd (oro pr houehld  Itotal uhb, soid rural1 -
rates. Pro,jctioo parantere for motali ty rates comprise of three                   dhueodcaists  f   gropf inIt iulswo  share~ lining quarters sd
level  aseosng life copect_ncy at birth  ioesn    ith .-utry-.                      their main meals. A hoarder or lodger may or sa  not be included ho the
Per capita incom  level, sad femsale life copectancy atbilficig at                  house hold for statistical Purpoe..
77.5 years.  The parameters for fertility rate alo. have three level              Average obro   esocprro    total,rba,: and rural - Average sbor
aseumdog declioc in fertility  c-cdisg to inca  leve  nod past                      of personspr Iromh  all uban_nua cuied covetional dweliogu,
fcmlly olstrnlg perforono. Each  -outry is thcn assigned one of these               rpsoctivly.  Dcellings e-clde o-porasenat stutrssd unocupied parts.
nb. c..hinatioss of mortality and fertility treodo for projecti.o                 Access to Electricit  (percent ofi dwell~ings) - total, urban, an  rura  - Co--
purpos es.                                                                          cetionsl d-e1litys cbh electriity  jin iig           atr  as perceotago of
It.thionay ooplntioc-  l,   statlonry  .poplanioc then  is no grooth                  total, urban, and rural dwellings repectively.
since- the bir-th rate is equa to the death rate, an~d alec the age
etrut_r  rains co        tnot Thi  is achevd only after ferility rate           EIt5ATION
declio  to te repacenetleol  fuit net reprdodction rate, when               Adjusted horomn-t Paios
-hi geteratiu  Of cunr  replnes itself exactly.  The stationary pops-               Primary sohool --ttl1ml  adfml    G-0Oos  total, male and female  -erl
latico  s1;loeen  eltimated On the basis of the Projected oharateriathes              meat of all ages at the Priar  lve  aspercentages of-rep-ctive prsaary
of the Po.ultioc ho the yen. 2000, sod the rate of decline of fertility               school-age pepultioo; normally includes childrensged 6-11 years hut
rate to replucem-t leve.                                   .                           ajusted for differet lengthn of priasry edocatioc; foe -outrhcssoth
Year atatIosas  ocolatico is reached - The year whe  stationar  population               uir       educati   enrollment may exceed 100 perceot 010-  som  pupils
sII, has here reached.                                                                arbblw   rshv  the official achnoae
Pouato  Poi  Iplsnaysho - total, 1 maeand fa-I. - Cost.d no civ -c; cec-ousy
Per sq. ha M-d-year population pee sqonr  kilomter (100 hectares) of                    edacatts requira at leas.t for  years of approved primsry i-t-rutioo;
totjuiinprovides geseral voctional  orteachr.trais  Instutin   for pupils
Ocr u  ha. nuircltu-al  anod - Computed ax above for agricltural land                   usuall  of 12 to 17 year  of age; corre     dondn, ocurs .....  goo-caly
Popuatlo Ag Itronur  (proco) -Child".o (0-14 years), working-age              Voniotal crlno  (ercto   eod                  ) - Vnoatinoal instit,tio..uiclude
)1-    er)   od  etrd  b  Ycao  odovr) ns percntages of Md-year                tchihoxl, lsdustrial, or other pegs-ms which operate idep-dv-tly or as
population; 1960, 1970, and 1977e data.                                                 departmot  of acuondary institutions.
Poculation.ir-th hair (poro-ot - total -A Annua growth rates of statl mid-              Ppoil-tesaher rati-prm , andsecond           r  -Tta  students enrolled ho
yerpplationo foer  I06,16-7,ad17-l                                                  primary an- eod a        evesdiviadebynmrso  teachbr- Ic ticore
Population Iroth Rate (peroo   uban - hosuai growth rate  of urban                        xposdlg Ilevls
population   or15-0, 19070, -an  1970-75.                                             Adult literacy rate (ocre...t) -Literate adults (able to read and seite) as
Crude 51Bdr hate   erY_ thoonanLd) - A .nual live births per th-ouad of mid-               apercentage of total adult poP.lntlos aged 15 years andovr
Year popoI-lutio 19tO, 1970, and 1977 data.
q-.DahRt.per      t-sand) - Aooua1 deaths per mthovscd or mad-peso           COiIORPTIiE
pcola   WC, 19lY97  , si(W1977  dntn.                                          Pnsocoger Curs (petouand poeulatioo) - Pass-ccer cara  ooprico motorcr
OroeNReroduosSt    A- Aeage nuber of dnoghtevs    oa   iL.l hear                        orating Ies  than eight peron; ex~olue  sbahanoes, hearses and nilitary
ho boy oc_a  reproducoir- p-riod if she _op-i-Oce, pr.ext ago-                         -hbiolo..
specific fertOil ity rates; .soully rico-ps   -c-cg- codiog in 1960,                Radio Reciver  ocer tbooc ooaIon) - All types of receiver  for radio
1970, and 1r9g75.                                                                     b-od--o to geo.r.  pulo  e  hosn  of pnpa.lticn; eo-ludes tlices...d
Fanlic Planin  - Acceptors, Asana  (Othosnods) - Aon.n.  nu-ter of                      revrier  i. wutricc and In years sh.. registration of radio st  ens in
-osPtora of birth-vcotro1 de-i-e  uder nopiv-  of onti.oa1 family                      ff-ct; dots for recent yearn may not he fosparable since m-t ococtriec
PIaniog Program.                                                                      nTolIsird lleoiog
FaI=yPlanninlg  - Ocr  (.percnt f eorid oec -,d         P-ro-tag   f maciod           70Receivers (oc ti       annd  or ts)-TV r-cirer  for broadcast to general
sceno  cidbarin   g  (-       - per) rhoon  birth-control devio-              public perth-onod pouatios; corudes unlicens.ed TV receivrer  in countriec
to all mariod  -or  In so   age grop.                                                 and in, Yern  hen reg.t-traits tf TV sets        itaho  ffect.
NeexaerCholotion (ocr .thoomand Pozato)- mows the overageIirvlatio
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        ofWdailygeraioeecnnppe, definda  a periodia  publication
missof rod Po,Outiooper Calttn (1969-7lolol) - Ilodo of per oupita                dcvoted prlitrily to recoding general sees.  It is osecidered to be "daly'
anulproduction of all food  vn      Fd-es   rd-tios  -cluden seed and                 if in nope- tat Il...t four tins.  nocek
feed sd is oso yeda .ps  bucis.  Co-ditiescovsr primary goodo                       Cinem  AonoI Attendxno  per Capitn err Yea- - Based on the outer. of tickets
(e.g. eg _vn  tontead of -ogu)shoot nor edible no -itotis noteiota                  oddrn   h   er  oldn   dmetn   odiei    ia    n    ht
(eg.cffee nod ten ar  eucluded).  Aggregntr production of each- vutry              units         h  Y ,iIdrgd.i-t.d4-.i.                                n    bl
ha based o ntiona  nrage prducer prc   cgte.                       ,s              ABRFOC
Per capita cP1y of Oniote  (ocProeso of reuugr-nets(-Csuo.ro)AI  OC
encrgy eqoi-alnt of net food uuppliex oviboble Io coutry Per -apitn               Total lbr Por   (tyhousands) - Foononically active p-oran, inclding arme
Per dsp   A-nilable sopplico o-pcioe id-rtic produotio, imports less                frces. s   ueplyd hot occluing hu nc   tudeot.,  tet. Defi.itions
e-p-ts, nod oh,angc to stood,  Net o-pplios ro-lode aninni feed,  -oda,             in varIous ~oiiotrice ar  tot  -oparuble.
quantitill used to food procecing, and I...sro is distrobution. Require-          Oexlcjpppet) - Pale  labor foro  ax percetage of tota  luhr farce
meets non  contentd by FAO bsd so physiologi-ai seeds fo  r oorl                  9gl1(rjcn(-lbor force In fmiig, fo-rety, hontiag cad
uctietty nod health  ...eidering  -oi-oarto1 trsp-rt-r, body -eighto,               ftnhing no percen.tage of total labor force.
age and ... distributions of population, nod n1ioig 11 peroest for                loduotry (percent) - Labor for-  ho  hinig, cont-otico; atoufactoring and
wat   thousehold level.                                                           irniot,O   outer sod gn  a  percntage of total lab,or fruce.
Per" et  upyo  proeiP(cmsperda)   Prtvi  -oot-ct of per                               nrticipntiov hate (p-rost)   tonal ms sad fair   1- Patiipatitn oj,
caPita ne  suPppl  of foo,d per day. Net oupply of food is derised as               moto~ity rni.oare compute  ntoa, mal, and female lakr forc  q  er
above. Requiremets for nLI co-trIes etbnlised by USDA prontde for a                  -etag-s of tonal, male nod fcmal  populatio  of all ages r.sP-tiveply;
mloim_  aIlwooe o  60 groass of totnl proteIn Pee day sad 20 gramss of              1960, 1970, nod 1975 dtot.  Three, are ILO's participation  mit   rflat
animal nod pulse protein, of ohioh 10 gran  should be animal protein.               age-ec  strutur  Of the population, and long time trend. Afew estimate.1
Theoc standards arc loa.r than thone of 75 ge_a  Of total protein and              .mrc f ru  notional                                                          to.res
25gam   f anmlpoti   on   ov     froeord   rpsdb   A                         Moontedc Dependency Ratio -  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and 05r to
It the Trhird World Pood ourocy                                                     tho labor force in age group of 15-64 yeare.
Per caPita crteIn  upply fr  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            lf
derivd fro   Itml  andplesi  ga              I e  day.                             GMoII DISTRPIBUION
Caills (ages l-") srtalitY Rate (er thoos-od I- A.o-i deaths per tcocoono             Percentag otf PrIvte boa (both in cas  sadkin)    S id by riehet
to age grop1byas  to childre  in this ag  c00; fo   ondcl                                 ecn,roet0   ecn,poetS   eon and psoret t0 poeeat
-Pin  couotrieu data derived fro  life table,.  grof househlds.
HEALITH                                                                               POOVERY TARGcT Gopoto
Life so oanra    irt (pso) -Avrage euber ofype-  Of life                              Estiatod Abaolutr Povet icme ee   t    e   aia  urba  sad rural -
ienf  oit art  bith e160  170  and 1977. iota.                                         Aboot  p-ety inoe  ee  hotacon lvlblwwhe      dia
InfantMortalty Oot (ocr housad) - A-..un  deaths of infants under on            ntrtItinoally adequate diet Plu .osse..tial no-food requireats is not
year of age per thb..uoad live births.                                                Off.,dble.
A-cea to Oafs e  ter (rerocot Of ooolnttoo  - ttl   rban an~d.rual                     Estimated Relative Poverty Joone    vl(5 per caia   ubnad rural -
lAtobrofpol(ta, ura,adrrl   ith rasonble trott                                          ua  eairpvryisn   edi  a-Pthird ofacegepe   apt
safoene  supply (icuetrnduufcouesruteadbt                                             personalisovome Of the  -cotny. Urban, leve  is dented fro  the rura  leve
us-stes.ei-ted entar  _ouhn  that from protected brhobles  springs,                   cit  sdju saent for higher coat of 1irig  in urban areas
sad  anitarY wells) as P-erotageo of their repective pepulniono.. In                Estimated Popltion Salon Abeolufte Pove.rtyInalvl( et-urnsa
an urba  arbaPublic foutaIn or standMost bontad not more than                         roa     Pr t of Peplttonuru _bsadrrl   h   r                    ousps'
20  mtrs fro. . houae mo be conaidered as bring oithic rosocobje
soroof that h-,cs.  In rural socoo renactablo arma   -Iud imply
EthO  h  ..c osroife or oasbero of the household do sot bhr to apend                                                         F onoic and Social ahta Riesison
diuproporti-ate part of the day ic fotohing the fanlly. s wter ... do                                                  Ecnoic Analyi.stsan  Projection  Rcprtmet
A.ust 1979



ANNEX I
- 25 -
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977/78                                                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$billion          %                                                   1972/73-1976/77      1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                          18.02        100.0                                                        4.1              6.4
Gross Domestic Investment                      3.10         17.2
Gross National Saving                          2.46         13.7
Current Account Balance                       -0.65         -3.6
Resource Balance                              -1.62         -9.0
OUTPUT, IABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977/781a
Value Added.             Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker
US$ million      'h       Million      "               US$         h
Agriculture              4,888         32        12.0       55               407          58
Industry                 3,558         23         4.1       19               868        123
Services                 6,957         45         5.8       26             1,199        170
Total/Average         15,403        100        91.9      100               703         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                        Central Government
(Rs billion)             7, of GDP                                          (Rs billion)              % of GDP
1977/78       1977/78      1973/74-1977/78                                  19778 1        19778 8    1973/74-1977/78
Current Receipts                          26.7           17.5             16.9                                         20.4           13.4            12.8
Current Expenditures                       27.7          18.1             18.2                                         20.0           13.1            13.3
Curreuit Surplus/Deficit                   -1.0          -0.6             -1.3                                          0.4            0.3            -0.5
Capital Expenditures                      15.9           10.4             10.9                                         13.4            8.8             8.9
External Assistance (net)                  6.7            4.4              5.2                                          6.7            4.4             5.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77      912778
(billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    29.2        34.3       42.8        52.8       64.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net'                       14.2       16.9        22.1        28.7       33.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                            15.6        19.7       23.1        30.1       35.7
Money and Quasi Money as R of CDP                        36.6        33.1       35.7        39.7       42.4
Wholesale Price Index (19B9/70 = 100)                   170.9       211.3      229.4       255.3      268.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                                    32.8        23.6        8.6        11.3        5.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                        ..         18.6       30.6        29.7       16.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                             ..         26.7       17.1        30.4       18.5
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  Serious underenuseration may exist, especially of women.
July 1979



-26-                                                                                ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1975/7b    1976/77    1977/78    1978/797'                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76-1978/79)
(US$ million-)
Exports of Goods, NFS                                  1,432       1,404        1,644       2,050                                                    LS$ million
Imports of Goods, NFS                                  2,587       2,877        3,307       4,275                         Raw Cotton                      72.1         5.7
Resource Balance                                    -1,155      -1,473      -1,663       -2,225                         Rice                           249.1        19.6
Cotton Yarn                   147.7        11.6
Interest Payments (net)                                 -145        -169         -177        -185                         Cotton Cloth                   170.7        13.4
Workers' Remittances                                     335          578       1,166       1,400                          Manufactured Goods            339.3        26.7
Other Factor Payments (net)                               18           13          15         ...                         Other Goods                    292.1        23.0
Net Transfers                                            ...          ...         ...         ...                            Total                     1,271.0       100.0
Balance on Current Account                               947       1,051         -659      -1,090                         EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30  1978Lb
US$
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                                         Outstanding and Disbursed                 million
Disbursements                                          919         829          688         808
Repayments                                            -146        -172         -167        -390                         Outstanding and Disbursed                 7,054.4
Net Disbursements                                        773         657          521         418                          Undisbursed                              2,040.4
Outstanding Including Undisbursed    9,094.8
Capital Grants                                           120         149          112         120
Transactions with IMF                                    136          41           41          75                         DEBT SERVICE RATIO  1977/78L-              9. 7%
Other ItemsLd                                             84            6         315         127
Increase in Reserves                                    -166         198         -330         350                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, MAY 31, 1979 (US$ mil'ion)
Gross Reserves (year end)                                636         438          768         418                                                           IBRD       IDA
Net Reserves (year end) e                                167         -80          224
Outstanding and Disbursed    341.2    712.4
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                Undisbursed                       92.3    279.9
Imports                                               332          381         529          585                         Outstanding Including
of which:  Petroleum                                255          274         341         367                            Undisbursed                   433.5    992.3
Exports                                                 20          26          62           52
of which:  Petroleum                                   -           -           -            -
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through May 11, 1972            May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973             Since February 15, 1973
US$  =  Rs 4.7619                     US$  =  11.00                           USS  5  9.90
Rs   =  US$0.2100                     Rs   =   0.0909                         Rs   -  0.1010
/a  Estimate.
/b  External public debt only; private debt is negligible.
/c  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
/d  Includes errors and omissions and short-term borrowing.
/e  Excluding net use of IMF resources.
July 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1979)
US$ million
Loan or                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                                               Undis-
Number     Year      Borrower                   Purpose                   Bank       TW       IDA    bursed
Seventy-four loans and credits fully disbursedLa                         573.0             479.3
206        1970      Pakistan    Engineering Education                     -                 4.0        0.2
422        1973      Pakistan    Karach:L Port III                         --               18.0        1.2
961        1974      Pakistan    Industrial Investment                    25.0               --         0.8
492        1974      Pakistan    Karach:L Port IV                          -                 16.0       6.9
510        1974      Pakistan    Telecomnmunications III                   --               36.0        0.9
1107       1975      SNGPL        Gas Pilpeline IV                        60.0               --        10.9
546        1975      Pakistan    Industrial Development (NDFC)             --                30.0       4.6
1208       1976      Pakistan    Power 'Transmission                       --       50.0     --        11.3
620        1976      Pakistan    Seed                                                       23.0       13.2
1326       1976      PICIC        Industrial Development                  25.0               --         2.4
630        1976      Pakistan    Lahore Water II                           --               26.6       16.2
648        1976      Pakistan    Irrigation and Drainage                                    14.0       10.6
1366       1977      Pakistan    Livestock                                 --       10.0     --         9.9
1372/684   1977      Pakistan    Railways                                 35.0              25.0       40.9
678        1977      Pakistan    Education                                 -                15.0       13.5
751        1977      Pakistan    Hill Farming                              --                3.0        2.5
754        1978      Pakistan    SCARP-VI                                  --               70.0       69.8
755        1978      Pakistan    Hazara Forestry                           --                1.7        1.6
771        1978      Pakistan    Tarbela II                                                 35.0       22.5
813        1978      Pakistan    Punjab Extension                                           12.5       12.5
846        1978      Pakistan    Fauji Fertilizer                                           55.0       48.0
867        1978      Pakistan    Toot Cil and Gas Development    /b                         30.0       27.9
877        1979      Pakistan    Salinity Control and Reclamationr-                        (60.0)    t60.0)
892        1979      Pakistan    Primary Educationl/b                                      (10.0)    (10.0)
922        1979      Pakistan    Sind Agricultural Extensioilb                             ( 9.0)    ( 9.0)
Total                                                               718.0      60.0   894.1
of which has been repaid                                            365.1       --     19.4
Total now outstanding                                               352.9      60.0   874.7
Amount sold                                       23.6
of which has been repaid                          22.3                1.3       -- 
'c
Total now held by Bank and IDA-                                     351.6/d    --    874.7
Total undisbursed                                                     >       21.2   259.7       328.3
/a Excludes the dlisbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects in the former
East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b  Not included in totals:  Credit 877-PAK declared effective October 16, 1979; Credit 892-PAK
declared effeztive October 23, 1979; and Credit 922-PAN is not yet effective.
/c Prior to exchange adjustments.
7-? Includes Third Window.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor               Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1958    Steel Corp. of
Pakistan Ltd.         Rolled Steel Products    0.63         -      0.63
1959    Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles                   0.75       -      0.75
1962-   Gharibwal Cement
1965    Industries Ltd.        Cement                     5.25     0.42    5.67
1963-
1969-                          Development                 -       0.52    0.52
1975    PICIC                  Financing
1965    Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles                   1.84      0.11    1.95
1965    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products             2.31     0.84    3.15
1967    Pakistan Paper
1976    Corp. Ltd.             Paper                      5.38     2.02    7.40
1969    Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers                1.00      2.92    3.92
1969    Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper             5.60      0.63    6.23
1979    Milkpak Limited        Food & Food Processing   2.40       0.40    2.80
1979    Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                                   29.00      1.62   30.62
Total Gross Commitments                         54.16      9.48   63.64
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                     33.25     1.01   34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               20.91      8.47   29.38
Undisbursed                                     16.40      2.02   18.42



- 29 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project.  In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction of
the closure section of the clam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in t'he operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying oif the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreemenl. was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again, in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway cduring 1977 necessitated additional protection
works. A first phase of these works was completed during the 1977/78 con-
struction season and further works were completed in 1978/79. Since 1975
irrigation requirements from the dam have generally been met. Power gene-
ration by the first four units began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35.0 Million Loan and US$25.0 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Tenth Railway Project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment for t:he telecommunications and signalling system is underway.   However,
due to difficulties in supply sources, procurement of wooden sleepers has been
delayed. While PR may be placing too much emphasis on passenger services,
the development of freight services is going in the right direction through
increases in hauling distance and ton kilometers.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Credit provided US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. Most of the new physical facilities are now in use. In response to
a new staff development plan prepared by the Government, the Association
has granted a final extension of the Closing Date (until December 31, 1979)
to allow for completion of equipment procurement and an ongoing fellowship
program for teaching staff.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently about
21 months behind schedule. Quay piling was substantially completed in June
1978 and shed construction is now scheduled for completion by September 1979.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until early 1981 - about
3 years behind schedule. Most of Credit 422 has been disbursed. Construc-
tion of the oil berth has been completed. Contracts for channel dredging
works and dredger procurement have been awarded by KPT. A study commissioned
by KPT will shortly put forward recommendations for rationalizing the port
tariff structure. An interim tariff increase averaging 100% was recently
approved by the Government.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan has been fully committed and at end-August, 1979, disburse-
ments amounted to US$22.6 million.
Credit No. 510       Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factorily, but is about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items has been substantially completed, installation of
plant and equipment is making good progress, and about 70% of the additional
subscribers' lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have
been reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines



- 31 -
ANNEX II
and to have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization,
important to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, was delayed
but has now been initiated. The Closing Date has been extended bV one year
to December 31, 1979 to permit the project to be completed.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: November 30, 1980
The Credit has been f'ully committed and US$25.4 million had been
disbursed as of end-August, 1979. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979 has been postponed to November 30, 1980 on account of one sub-project.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule.  A re-estimate of
final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$10.8 million. It is proposed to amend the project descrip-
tion to allow the Borrower to use about US$2.3 million of these savings
towards a larger pipeline between Meyal and Dhulian and dehydration facilities
for handling additional gas from the Meyal field.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Physical progress of the project has slowed down in the last few
months, due primarily to inexperience of the Punjab and Sind Seed Corporations
(PSC and SSC) in dealing with local and foreign private contractors. Addi-
tionally, frequent changes in management of PSC have had adverse effects.
Despite good progress on Corporation farms, the quality of crops produced is
still severely constrained by the quality of the pre-basic seed provided by
the research institutions. The Government has responded to IDA's recommenda-
tions for changes to improve the situation. Commissioning of two of the PSC
seed plants is now scheduled f'or January 1980; the third will be delayed by
about six months. The scheduled commissioning date for the SSC is August
1980.
Credit No. 6:30      Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project U;$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The majority of works have been contracted after some design delay
and retendering. Construction is about 18 months behind schedule. Due to
this delay and general inflation, the project cost is estimated to have
increased by about 24%. The engineering consulting service financed by UNDP
is being strengthened and extended to cover the prolonged project period.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Technical assistance provided by ODA (UK) for engineering and financial
management, leak detection and training has been reorganized to better meet
the needs of the project.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50.0 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment is in
progress with completion scheduled for December 1980. Virtually all bidding
documents for equipment and materials have been issued and awards made on the
major items. Due to lower-than-expected prices, savings estimated at about
$15 million have been cancelled.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about 21 months behind schedule due to delays
in achieving credit effectiveness. With the recent completion by WAPDA and
their consultants of the project plan report and construction of ancillary
works and facilities, WAPDA would be able to maintain consistent and season-
able progress in the critical task of the drain pipe installations after
delivery of most of the heavy equipment, which took place in mid-1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides facilities for: (a) general teacher training
and an experiment in an adult functional literacy program and related studies;
and (b) agricultural education to assist in developing higher and middle level
agricultural manpower, farmer training and related studies. Project implemen-
tation is about five months behind schedule, but the project is now making
reasonable progress. The Educational Master Plan, covering manpower and
enrollment projections as well as other activities concerning future develop-
ment at Sind Agricultural University, was completed in April 1979. About 85%
of civil works contracts have been awarded and about one-third of the works
completed. Tendering for about one-half the project equipment is in progress
and the balance is expected to be tendered shortly. A technical assistance
contract was signed with UNESCO in early 1979 and recruitment is in progress.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation has been poor due to frequent changes in the
management of the Punjab Livestock Board (PLB). Lately, PLB has improved
the viability of the Lahore Milk Plant and has made progress in establishing



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Village Livestock Associations. Investments in abbatoir now appear unjusti-
fied and other components are btsing financed from other sources. The future
of the project i0 being reviewed with the Government.  The Goverrment has been
advised that construction of th,e milk plant will depend on the outcome of the
ongoing consultant's feasibility study and on PLB taking further action to
improve the viability of the existing facility.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3.0 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most of the construc-
tion has been completed or is nearing completion. The aerial survey has
been carried out; demonstration farms have been established; and the pilot
vegetable and apple schemes, forestry and livestock activities are operating
closely to the time schedule envisaged.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70.0 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date:  December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about one year behind schedule due to the delayed
appointment o;E consultants, who are assisting with project design and
implementatioln .
Credit No. 75.5      Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 3], 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is still well behind schedule, notably in the silvicultural
work. Steps to improve this situation have been agreed with the project
authorities.
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project implementation plan has been finalized. A short delay
has occurred in appointing key staff. The T&V system is operating in the
project area and is also being implemented in the rest of the Province.
While some minor operational snags remain, general progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are well advanced and site preparation
is underway. The marketing program is being implemented according to schedule
and construction of the housing colony at the project site is well underway.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is currently at an initial stage. The key drilling
component has encountered some difficulty; special technical consultants will
help correct technical problems. A new drilling contract will be entered
into in early 1980.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants to assist WAPDA in the preparation of detailed designs,
specifications and procurement documents have been appointed.  The Credit
has just been declared effective.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10.0 Million Credit of April 18, 1979;
Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The Credit has just been declared effective. Consultants for training
and evaluation components have been engaged.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9.0 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Cl~osing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
FOURTH AGRICULTUtAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
The project is the result of a series of discussions
between GOP/ADBP and the Association over a period
of several years.
(b) The Agency which has prepared the project:
ADBP with assistance from the Bank.
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first
IDA mission to consider project:
1973.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:
October 1978; follow-up mission in February 1979.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
June 1, 1979.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
About February 15, 1980.
Section II:    Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOP would not require ADBP to undertake emergency
lending except in the event of a major natural
calamity End then only as a disbursing agent for
GOP funds (paragraph 36);
(b) at least 50% of all medium and long-term loans
made by ADBP in the first year of the project



- 36 -
ANNEX III
would be to farmers with less than 25 ac and this
proportion would increase to at least 60% in the
second year and to at least 75% in subsequent
years. At least one-third of the above-mentioned
loans would be made to farmers with less than
12.5 ac (paragraph 43);
(c) Targets for training planned to permit 45% of loans
to be subjected to full appraisal by 1979/80, 80%
in 1980/81 and 100% thereafter would be pursued
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association (paragraph 45);
(d) ADBP would charge interest of not less than 11%
per annum; and when ADBP's interest rates fell
below positive levels in real terms, GOP would
take necessary measures to achieve levels satis-
factory to the Association (paragraph 46);
(e) GOP would provide ADBP wth a spread of 7% per
annum on funds lent by it to ADBP and would cause
ADBP to review the spread and furnish the results
of the review to the Association for its considera-
tion by July 1, 1982 (paragraph 49);
(f) ADBP would, in cooperation with Provincial Govern-
ments and other appropriate agencies, promote lend-
ing' in areas with high development potential, and
would act as an authorized agent of GOP and
Provincial Governments to implement groundwater
development and other agricultural investment
incentive schemes (paragraph 52);
(g) ADBP would promote the use of smaller tractors and
other appropriate equipment; basic trials comparing
different mechanized cultivation techniques and the
impact of different farm equipment, including the
use of smaller tractors, would be carried out in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Association by July 1, 1980 (paragraph 57);
(h) Seasonal lending would not exceed about 10% of
ADBP's total annual lending and would generally
be restricted to borrowers of development loans
(paragraph 61);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
(i'  All outstanding loan accounts opened in the course
of emergency,lending would be transferred to a special
account and a collection program initiated by ADBP
in collaboration with Government authorities by
December 31, 1979 (paragraph 69);
(j)  ADBP would by December 31, 1979, furnish to the
Association for its concurrence (i) a phased program
to be completed by December 31, 1980, for the exami-
nation on a branch-by-branch basis, of all overdue
loans, including those extended in the course of
emergency lending and (ii) proposals for reaching
by July 1, 198L, an adequate provision against bad
or doubtful loans and general reserve. As an interim
measure, a provision against bad or doubtful loans
of at least Rs 170 million would be established
by July 1, 1980. ADBP would establish a program,
satisfactory to the Association, to achieve loan
recovery levels of at least 60% by July 1, 1980, 70%
by July 1, 1981, and 85% by July 1, 1982, and require
ADBP branches to achieve such levels to qualify for
future lending (paragraph 69);
(k.) ADBP would by December 31, 1979, submit to and agree
with the Association and by March 31, 1980, implement
procedures for the provision of data on the costs,
benefits, viability and impact of its lending opera-
tions'and for monitoring and evaluating the project
(paragraph 70).






IBRD 14295
64-  6ffi3-                      1   72'      U. S. S. R.            I7o  APRIL 1979
P A K I ST A N                                                                                              CiNA*
THE FOURTH CREDIT PROJECT
-360                                        for  the                                                                                                        36-
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
*1  PROPOSED SUPERVISED CREDIT AREAS
, SUPERVISED CREDIT AREAS                                                                                   ...... C-trol
HEAD OFFICE                                                             o
*    REGIONAL OFFICES
*   BRANCH OFFICES                                            *.-.  Pesh           Ia  obad
O   SUB-BRANCH OFFICES
*    LIAISON OFFICE                                                                              .
a   ZONAL OFFICE                                                     o
-32j   DI. ( an' Khan  SarRodh.                Irowan      a         32-
-_.D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0F c's<t-jolob;a .,  
-28-   1                             f                   2  *      (g    S *                     j                                         2E-~~~~Lokoo1  .
. / ) T o ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72- 6
<//~~~                         ~          ~~       ~    ~~~ (MHIorha (                    vi / -                            CHINA  SS.. 
r   ~~~~>  ~~~~ 2- A      l         @ g~~*yderobod   *                                     IDE  RE OF_  5 r  .      , 
.                  ar h            t                                            RAN    djFGFANISOAFJ      Apo L,ne's_  Cof
64w  R7ro  tSawl_^~\/biet  Ste                                                                    -'  24              AI 
00                                          IND~~~~~~~~~~~INA
$ w " w # _ t $ w ,     -    .      \                                  i   J                         \       K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26 
I           -            ' m             ' '   '  ' Ri . WSrI" 'w'- Ee /REM, Ao N, 0                                               .     _io



