CREDIT NUMBER 957 PAK
Punjab Project Agreement
(Fourth Agricultural Development Bank Project)
between
INTERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
Dated                                , 1979
X-J


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 957 PAR
PUNJAB PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   $ca   g A    v) 7, 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Punjab).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to twenty-three million seven hundred fifty thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR23,750,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association has accepted
such appointment; and
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
t-context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part D
of the Project
Section 2.01. Punjab shall carry out Part D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
respect to the Agricultural Engineering Training Institutes
located in Punjab, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Punjab shall cooperate with the Agricultural
Bank in the program referred to in Section 2.10 (b) of the Agri-
cultural Bank Project Agreement for the collection of outstanding
balances on loans extended in the course of emergency lending.
Section 2.03. Punjab shall:
(a) in cooperation with the Agricultural Bank and other
appropriate agencies and institutions, promote:
(i) lending in areas with high development potential;
and
(ii) the use of smaller tractors and other appropriate
equipment; and
(b) authorize the Agricultural Bank to act as an agent
in implementing groundwater development and other agricultural
investment incentive schemes.
Section 2.04. (a) Punjab undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by Punjab to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Punjab
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
.-.'r


﻿-3-
of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents, construction and
procurement schedules, and training programs for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Punjab: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and
the Fund's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
'derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Fund Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Punjab
and the Association, Punjab shall prepare and furnish to the
Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Punjab and the Association of their respective obligations under
this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit and the Fund Loan.
(d) Punjab shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of Punjab and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) Punjab shall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the


﻿-4-
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) Punjab shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit or the Fund Loan, or the performance by Punjab of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Punjab shall maintain, or cause its agen-
cies to maintain, records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition in respect of activities
related to the Project, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture.
(b) Punjab shall retain, or cause to be retained, until
one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure and shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. Punjab shall, in respect of activities related
to the Project: (i) establish, or cause to be established,
separate accounts for the purposes of the Project; (ii) have its
accounts and financial statements (statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to


﻿-5-
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit and the
Fund Loan withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan
Account, respectively, on the basis of certificates of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and (iv) furnish to the Association and the Fund such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Association'shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Development Credit
Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the earliest date on which both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement
shall have terminated in accordance with their
respective terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Punjab of this event.
(c) If either the Development Credit Agreement, or the Fund
Loan Agreement, terminates in accordance with its terms before the
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the other
Agreement remains in force- all obligations under this Agreement
of Punjab and of the lender under that other Agreement shall
remain in force.


﻿r
-6-
(d) If the Association shall notify Punjab that its appoint-
ment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has
terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund, to the
Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be
deleted.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Province of Punjab:
Chairman
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Lahore


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be taken or executed by its
Chairman, Planning and Development Board or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and Punjab shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
4                      By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
ByizeReresntaiv
V                                     Authorized Representative
IVK4


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
197.-.
FOR SECRETARY


