i CREDIT NMBER 957 PAK
DOcumENS
NWFP Projeet Agreement
(Fourth Agricultural Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
Dated                                , 1979


﻿II I
CREDIT NUMBER 957 PAK
NWFP PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    aAA                      , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE, acting by its
Governor (hereinafter called NWFP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that NWFP agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to twenty-three million seven hundred fifty thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR23,750,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association has accepted
such appointment; and
WHEREAS NWFP, in consideration of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
41


﻿- 2 -
-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part D
of the Project
Section 2.01. NWFP shall carry out Part D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
respect to the Agricultural Engineering Training Institutes
located in NWFP, with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. NWFP shall cooperate with the Agricultural Bank
in the program referred to in Section 2.10 (b) of the Agricultural
Bank Project Agreement for the collection of outstanding balances
on loans extended in the course of emergency lending in NWFP.
Section 2.03. NWFP shall:
(a) in cooperation with the Agricultural Bank and other
appropriate agencies and institutions, promote:
(i) lending in areas with high development potential;
and
(ii) the use of smaller tractors and other appropriate
equipment; and
(b) authorize the Agricultural Bank to act as an agent
in implementing groundwater development and other agricultural
investment incentive schemes.
Section 2.04. (a) NWFP undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by NWFP to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NWFP
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿1 I
Section 2.05. (a) NWFP shall furnish to the Association and
the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, repo!.s, contract documents, construction and procurement
schedules, and training programs for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) NWFP: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NWFP and the
Association, NWFP shall prepare and furnish to the Association and
the Fund a report, of such scope and in- such detail as the Associ-
ation shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by NWFP and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(d) NWFP shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of NWFP and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) NWFP shall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the Fund Loan.


﻿-4-
(b) NWFP shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit or the Fund Loan, or the performance by NWFP of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) NWFP shall maintain, or cause its agencies
to maintain, records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition in respect of activities
related to the Project, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture.
(b) NWFP shall retain, or cause to be retained, until
one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure and shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. NWFP shall in respect of activities related to
the Project: (i) establish, or cause to be established, sepa-
rate accounts for the purposes of the Project; (ii) have its
accounts and financial statements (statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the


﻿-5-
Credit and the Fund Loan withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iv) furnish to the Association and the Fund such
other information concerning such accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Development Credit
Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of NWFP thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the earliest date on which both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement
shall have terminated in accordance with their
respective terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NWFP of this event.
(c) If either the Development Credit Agreement, or the Fund
Loan Agreement, terminates in accordance with its terms before the
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the other
Agreement remains in force, all obligations under this Agreement
of NWFP and of the lender under that other Agreement shall remain
in force.
(d) If the Association shall notify NWFP that its appoint-
ment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has
terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund, to the
Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be
deleted.
kJ_____


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the North West Frontier Province:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Peshawar
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under


﻿7 A.
-7-
this Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be taken or executed by its
Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department or
such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing, and
NWFP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
197_-_-.
FOR SECRETARY
* -4,


