1-FI>tCIAL          CREDIT NUMBER 957 PAK
IDOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Agricultural Development Bank Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 957 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (   444g4,     7           , 1979, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to twenty-three million seven hundred fifty thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR23,750,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association has accepted
such appointment;
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
(hereinafter referred to as the Agricultural Bank), the Agri-
cultural Bank has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the Project;
(E) by agreements of even date herewith between the Asso-
ciation and the Punjab and North West Frontier Provinces of the
Borrower (hereinafter referred to as Punjab and NWFP), Punjab and
NWFP have each agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of carrying out the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Agricultural Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
iith the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Special Drawing Right" and "SDR" mean a special drawing
right allocated by the International Monetary Fund, as valued from
time to time by the International Monetary Fund;
(c) "Agricultural Bank" means the Agricultural Development
Bank of Pakistan established under the Agricultural Development
Bank Ordinance, 1961 of the Borrower as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(d) "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e) "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(f) "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political subdi-
vision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(g) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(h) "the Provinces" means the Provinces referred to in
paragraphs (d) to (g) of this Section;


﻿-3-
(i) "Agricultural Bank Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment between the Association and the Agricultural Bank of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(j) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(k) "NWFP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and NWFP of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(1) "the Provinces Project Agreements" mean the agreements
defined in paragraphs (j) and (k) of this Section and "the respec-
tive Province Project Agreement" means in relation to any one
of the Provinces, any such agreement to which that Province is
a party;
(m) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Agricultural Bank
pursuant to Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(n) "Agriculturists" means those persons whose principal
occupation is in, and whose income is mainly derived from, agri-
cultural pursuits;
(o) "Small Agriculturists" means the Agriculturist, operat-
ing on less than 25 acres of land;
(p) "medium- and long-term loans" means loans with maturi-
ties of eighteen months or more;
(q) "seasonal loans" means loans with maturities of less
than eighteen months;
(r) "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(s) "emergency lending" means lending carried out on the
Borrower's instructions; and
(t) "special project lending" means lending for purposes
not included in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
A1


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as *the Association shall establish.      The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on September 1 and March 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Septem-
ber 1 and March 1 commencing March 1, 1990, and ending Septem-
ber 1, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
rr


﻿-5-
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation may be modified from time to time pur-
suant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form
and containing such statements and agreements as the Association
or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
-wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether
before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) With respect to the proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan allocated under Category (1) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account, and the funds
to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned
by the Association, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
f


﻿- 6 -
-6-
between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 60:40, or
such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Association and
the Fund.
(b) With respect to the proceeds of the Credit and the
Fund Loan other than those allocated under Category (1) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, each such application shall be made
in respect of expenditures that shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan only and such application shall be
deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Fund Loan
Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement; and/or
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been with-
drawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund,


﻿-7-
enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Association
that any such special commitment shall, once it has been notified
to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to
pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required
for Parts C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Chairman of the Agricultural Bank or
his nominee is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Article III of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions for expenditures in respect of Parts
A, B and C of the Project and the Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division or his nominee is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
such action for expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the Agricultural Bank to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Agricultural Bank Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Agricultural
Bank to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the


﻿-8-
Borrower shall cause Punjab and NWFP to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the respective Provinces Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Punjab and NWFP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan:
(i) allocated under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(ii) allocated under Category (2) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(iii) allocated under Category (4) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement up to the amount of SDR720,000 equiva-
lent; and
(iv) allocated under Category (5) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement up to the amount of SDR160,000
equivalent;
to the Agricultural Bank under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Agricultural Bank
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association, and which shall include those outlined in Part A
of the Schedule to the Agricultural Bank Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Association and the Fund and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall make available to Punjab and NWFP
the proceeds of the Fund Loan:
(i) allocated under Category (3) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;


﻿-9-
(ii) allocated under Category (4) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement up to the amount of SDR880,000
equivalent; and
(iii) allocated under Category (5) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement up to the amount of SDR640,000
equivalent;
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
Section 4.02. In order to assist in carrying out Part D of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to enable the Agricultural Bank to: (a) include movable as well as
immovable property as security for the loans it extends;
(b) except-as the Association shall otherwise agree, repay
funds lent by the Borrower to the Agricultural Bank at a rate
which provides the Agricultural Bank with a spread of 7% per
annum. The Borrower shall cause the Agricultural Bank by July 1,
1982, to review the spread and furnish the results of the review
to the Association for its consideration;
(c) cover all its operating expenditures and charges,
including taxes, if any, and interest payments on borrowings;
and
(d) extend loans only after appraisal is carried out
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association
as outlined in Part B of the Schedule to the Agricultural Bank
Project Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall; (a) by July 1, 1980 ensure
that the funds for the provision against bad or doubtful loans as
specified in Section 2.11 (b) of the Agricultural Bank Project
Agreement are available with the Agricultural Bank;


﻿- 10 -
(b) by July 1, 1981, ensure that the funds required to reach
the levels of the general reserve and provision against bad or
doubtful loans as determined in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.11 (a) (ii) of the Agricultural Bank Project Agreement
are available with the Agricultural Bank; and
(c) not require the Agricultural Bank to undertake emergency
lending, except: (i) in the event of a major natural calamity;
and (ii) as a disbursement agent for funds provided by the Bor-
rower for the purpose.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (a) take all necessary
measures to facilitate the importation of small high speed diesel
engines;
(b) cause its Agricultural Research Council, by December
31, 1979 to furnish to the Association for its review, proposals
for carrying out basic trials comparing different mechanized
cultivation techniques and proposals for the importation and
testing of tillage practices by different farm equipment including
the use of smaller tractors and other appropriate equipment;
and
(c) cause by July 1, 1980 to be carried out a program
satisfactory to the Association, based on the proposals referred
to in sub-Section (b) hereinabove.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the Agricultural
Bank, in cooperation with the Provinces and together with the
appropriate agencies and institutions:
(a) to promote:
(i) lending in areas with high development potential;
and
(ii) the use of smaller tractors and other appropriate
equipment;
(b) to act as an authorized agent of the Borrower and
the Provinces to implement groundwater development and other
agricultural investment incentive schemes; and
(c) to implement by December 31, 1979, the program referred
to in Section 2.10 (b) of the Agricultural Bank Project Agreement


﻿rII
- 11 -
for the collection of outstanding balances on loans extended
in the course of emergency lending.
For that purpose the Borrower shall cause Sind and Baluchi-
stan by October 31, 1979 to make arrangements satisfactory to
the Association to carry out the provisions of this Section.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, as soon as it is deter-
mined that lending rates charged by the Agricultural Bank are
not at positive levels in real terms, take necessary measures
to achieve levels satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Province shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of such Province under the respec-
tive Province Project Agreement;
(b) the Agricultural Bank shall have failed to perform
any covenant, agreement or obligation of the Agricultural Bank
under the Agricultural Bank Project Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Agricultural Bank will be
able to perform its obligations under the Agricultural Bank
Project Agreement;
(d) the Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance, 1961
of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of the Agricultural Bank to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Agricul-
tural Bank Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or dises-
tablishment of the Agricultural Bank or for the suspension of
its operations; and


﻿- 12 -
(f) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan (including
the Fund Loan) made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower
of the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental action and all other conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the
Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment) have been duly fulfilled; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Agricultural Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Agricultural Bank Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Agricultural Bank, and is legally binding upon the
Agricultural Bank in accordance with its terms;
(b) that each of the Provinces Project Agreements has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the respective Province, and is legally binding
upon such Province in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Agricultural Bank and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Agricultural Bank in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                          , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement
shall have failed to come into force and effect by the date
specified in Section 6.03 of this Agreement or a later date
established by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which
shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the
Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding


﻿-14-
the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Con-
ditions, the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be,
or to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required
for orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the
parties thereunder, subject to such modifications of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the
Association and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 6.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV - 05 - 634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
,,~     - /t /lyW e       H
By       rf'4(        L
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in.each Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated    Expenditures
in Dollar    (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Loans:
(a) under Part       7,500,000      3,955,000    18% of
A.1 of the                                  amounts
Project                                     disbursed
(b) under Part      22,500,000     12,6609000    67% of
A.2 of the                                  amounts
Project                                     disbursed
(2) Loans under                          3,955,000    30% of
Part B of                                        amounts
the Project                                      disbursed
(3) Civil works                            550,000    50%
(4) Vehicle and                          1,600,000
equipment:
(a) directly                                     100% of for-
imported                                    eign expen-
ditures
(b) procured                                     50%
locally
iir


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated    Expenditures
in Dollar    (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(5) Consultants' ser-                      800,000   100%
vices and over-
seas training
(6) Unallocated                           230,000
TOTAL     30,000,000     23,750,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "loca. expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of the Association and the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of the
Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later.


﻿- 18 -
. 5.  Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
raph 1 above, and without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association
are not needed to meet other expenditures, provided, however,
that, except as the Association and the Fund may otherwise agree,
no such reallocation shall be made to Category (1) (a); and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement
or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan
as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
*of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan.
-~        '7h


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's agricultural develop-
ment program to assist farmers in improving their farming prac-
tices, and consists of the following Parts:
A:   Development Loans
A program of medium- and long-term loans to be made by
the Agricultural Bank:
1.   to Small Agriculturists for tractors; and
2.   to Agriculturists for minor irrigation, cultivation equipment
other than tractors and on-farm development.
B:   Seasonal Loans
A program of seasonal loans to be made by the Agricultural
Bank to Small Agriculturists for fertilizers, pesticides and other
inputs.
C:   Agricultural Bank
The strengthening of the management, operations and finances
of the Agricultural Bank, including provision of equipment and
vehicles, and technical assistance for training, research and
policy formulation.
D:   Agricultural Engineering Training
1.   The improvement of about 11 Agricultural Engineering Train-
ing Institutes located in the Punjab and North West Frontier
Provinces through the construction of buildings, and the pro-
vision of agricultural equipment and teaching materials and
technical assistance for course design and implementation.
2.   The training of about 40 agricultural engineers.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement for Parts C and D
of the Project
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For bidding purposes, equipment and vehicles should be
grouped in procurement packages with estimated values exceeding
the equivalent of $50,000 each, in such a manner as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿PWI
- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 22 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
-if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
'1. Civil works under the Project may be carried out either
(a) by force account, or (b) under contracts awarded under the
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Vehicles and equipment that cannot be grouped in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.3 hereinabove, may be awarded
in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for certain miscellaneous equipment and vehicles
with values not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 for each
contract, may be purchased through normal commercial channels
after solicitation of at least three price quotations, provided
that the aggregate expenditure for items so purchased shall not
exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it


﻿-I
-23-
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan
Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
2~~~~~~!I -_ _r__      _      __        _      _     _      _


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
197   .R
FOR SECRETARY


