;
The World Bank
FOR omCLL USE ONLY
Rqm N.. 12565
PrOJECT oI3 OR!
NALAYSIA
SABM AND SAtAWAK ROAD PROJECT
(LOAN 2291-NA)
NOVEIDER 30, 1993
Tnfrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This docmet has a resuicted distribution and may be used by recipiens ony in the  of
ter official due. Its co    may not odierwise be disclosed witout World Bak autorI



4.
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    Ringgit (M$) (MR)
US$1.00           -    M$2.30  (1983)
-    M$2.48  (1985)
-    M$2.58  (1986)
-    M$2.52  (1987)
-    M$2.62  (1988)
-    M$2.71  (1989)
-    M$2.70  C1990)
-    M$2.75  (1991)
-    M$2.55  (1992)
-    M$2.50  (1993)
FIS-CAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
KEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 foot (ft)             -    0.3048 meters (m)
1 mile (mi).            -    1.6094 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)   -    2.59 square kilometers (sq km)
2.204 lbs               -    I metric ton (m ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMDT        -     Average Annual Daily Traffic
ADT         -     Average Daily Traffic
EPU         -     Federal Economic Planning Unit
ERR         -     Economic Internal Rate of Return
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
GOM         -     Government of Malaysia
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
JKR         -     Jabatan Kerja Raya (PWD)
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
MOT               Ministry of Transport
HRCU        -     Mechanized Road Construction Unit
PPAR-             Project Performance Audit Report
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PM          -     Peninsular Malaysia
PWD         -     Federal Public Works Department
RMMS        -     Road Maintenance Management System
SAR         -     Staff Appraisal Report
SDO         -     State Development Office
SEPU        -     State Economic Planning Unit
SEWD        -     State Public Works Department
VOC         -     Vehicle Operating Cost
VPD         -     Vehicles Per Day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wahingto D.G 20433
USA
Off S  of Director-Gene?al
Operatlau Evaluagot
November 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECuTIEv DIRECTORS AMD TEE PRESIDET
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Sabah and Sarawak Road Prolect (Loan 2291-MAM
Attached is the "Project CoWpletion Report on Malaysia -- Sabah and
Sarawak Road ProJect (Loan 2291-M&)" prepared by the East Asia and PacIfic
Regional Office. Part II contains comments from one of the Borroer's agencies.
The Loan (US$86 .2 million of May 1983) had an institutional development
rationale  along with  its  infrastructure  development  goals:    effective
collaboration among the Federal Economic Planning Unit, the State Economic
Planning Units in Sabah and Saravk, the Federal Public Works Department and the
Sabah and Sarawak Public Works Departments would lead to smoother relations
between the two States and the Federal Governmet; regular contacts among State
and Federal technical agencies vould foster closer collaboration between Sabah
and Sarawsk for undertakings of major Importance, such &a the construction of
the Pan-Borneo  lighway.  Project components reflected these objectivea by
including road inprvmen   staff trainsing, strengtning of road mintenance,
assistance for a coordinated Road Transport Revlew, and assistance for a National
Ports Study.
All project components vere completed. Some US$16 million vere
canceled. Project objectives were largely met and the economic rate of return
is 35.2Z, up from 15S estimated at appraisal. Nevertheless, there vere probles
with execution of civil works, leading to a 3-year delay in project completion,
and the Borrower did not take the vigorous action recommended by the Bank.
Overloaded trucks seriously damaged road surfaces recently built or maintained
and, despite continuous admonitions by the Bank, there is little evidence that
axle load regulatios are being enforced.
On the whole, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its
sustalnability as likely, and its institutional impact as substantial.
The PCR Is comprehensive. The project may be audited along with the
Second Sabah Ports Projact and the Port Kelang Project.
T his dmumenthua rsuicteddistnbution and ma be usedby redpietti ai in the perfannenc
orthw fficial idudm Is contents may not athrwno be dbsed rwitbut WorldBank audztoin.



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
SABAH ADSARAWAK ROAD PROJECT (LOAN 2291-MA)
Table of Contents
ha  No.
Preface       ............................................................
Evaluation Summary ..................                                        Li
PART I. PRWJECT REVIEV FROK THE BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Summary ProJect Data                                               1
2.  Background and Sectoral Setting.                                    1
3.  Bank Involvement in the Sector.                                     2
4. Follow-on Initiatives.                                               3
5. The Project.                                                         4
6. Project Inplementation .6
7.   Project Results and Lessons Learned .17
S.  Sustainability/Remaining Issues .21
9. Bank Perfo-mance -.                                                 22
10. Borrower Performane .22
11.   Project Relationships   .................................         22
12.    Project Documentation and Data   ........................        23
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROK THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                     24
PART III. STAIISTICAL INFORMATION: TABILS
Table 1: Related Bank Lons  .................................          26
Table 2:  Use of Bank Resources  ..............................        28
Table 3:  Status of Legal Covenants  ..........................        30
Table 4:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements    ......      31
Table 5: Financing Plan - Appraisal vs. Actual  ....     ..........    32
Table 6: Project Costs - Appraisal vs. Actual  ....      ...........   33
Table 7: Detailed Project Costs for Sabah Component       .........    34
Table 8: Project IWplementation Schedule - Sabah Component             35
Table 9: Project Implementation Schedule - Sarawak Component           36
Table 10: Studies and Trainirg  ...............................        37
Table 11: Highway Capital and Maintenance Expenditures    .......      39
Table 12: Diesel and Gasoline Prices (1975-1992)  ....    .........    40
Table 13: Actual Traffic Volumes  .............................        41
Table 14: Vehicle Operating Cost Savings  .....................        42
I This dacumt bk a *ese disuibuton nd may be ued by  uents onl in tlb peffrsma
or dsek ilil dudes s wotents may not oterwise be ioed without Wold ank aut*odtin



WALYSIA
SABAR AUD SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
(LOAN 2291-NA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) sumarizes the implementation
of the Sabah and Sarawak Road Project, for which Loan 2291-MA In the amount of
US$86.22 million was cpproved on May 26. 1983. US$15 zillion was conceled on
January 24, 1987 and a further caneel tion of US$734.594.82 occurred at the timn
of loan account closing. A total of US$70,485,405.18 was disbursed under the
loan, with the last disbursement being made on October 28. 1992. Th. Loan
Closing Date, originally June 30, 1989. was extended three times (one year each
tine) with the final closing on June 30, 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Tnfrastructure Operations
Division of the East Asia and Pacific Region (EAlIN) and the Borrower and is
based, inter alia. on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports. the Borrower' a own records. correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
Part II contains cOmments from the State of Sabah.



- Li -
IAA  AND SAAAM OA  PROJECT (LOAN 2291-KA)
Obiectives
The Project was formlated to further the Governomnt of Malaysia's
(GOM) developmental objectives and the Bank's lending strategy for Malaysia. The
main objective of the Project was to improve rural trunk roads and agricultural
access roads in order to support agricultural and agro-industrxal activities in
the rural areas of Sabah. Through an overall plaming study for both states, it
vas also expected to assist the future development of both Sabahb's and Sarawak' s
transport networks so that both states could base their transport system
development on more definite plans for agricultural, forestry and industrial
growth. The Project also aimed to help ilmrove the road anintenance capabilities
and training efforts in both states and, by means of a comprehonsive study,
provide a basis for future port investments throughout Malaysia.
fmplementation experience vas mixed. MIere were a nm=ber of problems
associated with the civil works components due mainly to the inexperience and
lack of financial resources of some of the contractors. Although implementation
of the consultancy services were somewhat delayed, they vent smoothly once
underway.
Results
All of the components vere eventually satisfactori: y implemented. The
project vas extended three times (one year each time) because of the delays that
had occurred. Substantial cost overruns were experienced in most of the road
construction contracts.
7he main issues concerning sustainabilLty of the project relate to
the government's ability to (a) enforce truck loading limits to minimize road
damage; and (b) adequately staff the training centers and maintenance
organizations with appropriate personnel. Several successful measures have
already been taken regarding these two issues.
/~~~~~~~~~



- iii -
Findings anid Less-ons iLearned
The main findings and lessons learned from the Sabah and Sarawak Road
Project include the following:
(a)  In prequalifying contractors more care should have been exercised to
ensure that they had the requisite experience and capability end,
just as importantly, the financial resources to properly carry out
the work. Contracts should not be routinely awarded to arginally
acceptable firms which have submitted unreasonably low bids, as in
this case. At a -inimum, if contractors with less than desirable
financial, resources were, for whatever reason, to be awarded
concracts, then the performance bond required should have been
increased to a level where thair default, while undesirable, would
not create insurmountable difficulties. -Where properly qualified
contractors also submitted unreasonably low bids, more care should
have been taken to ensure that satisfactory remedies were available
in the event of later difficulties.
(b)  When it developed that certain contractors, due to shortage of
funds, lack of qualified personnel or general incompetence, could
not properly complete the work within a reasonable tim frame, the
Government should have canceled their contracts for cause, as the
Bank had strongly recommended, without undue delay and used another
contractor to complete the work rather than entering into a long,
drawn-out process of assistance to the contractor which. in any
event, did not have a satisfactory outcome and contributed to long
delays in completion of the work and substantial increases in costs.
(c)   It has become abundantly clear, with Sabah and Sarawak as cases in.
point, that unless some reasonable control can be exercised over
excessive axle loads, the rapid deterioration of road infr&structure
cannot be avoided. The heavily overloaded trucks carrying timber
and other products in both States continue to damage road pavement
structures.   Until the Government begins to make more serious
efforts to limit these axle loadings, all road users will continue
to encounter increased costs and inconvenience. Whiles previous
efforts in this direction were undertaken without success under the
Thlrd Highway Project (Loan 1376-MA), the problem is now being-
viewed by the Government with more concern.  Further efforts to
control overloaded trucks throughout Malaysia, including Sabah and
Sarawak, are being mounted under the Bank-financed Highway
Rebabilitation and Improvement Project (Loan 3145-MA), now being
implemeted.
(d)   The major training efforts mounted under this project in both Sabah
and Sarawak generally achieved their objectives and can be
considered to have been successful.   However, now  that the
consultants employed have completed their work and have left, the
enduring effect of the efforts and funds expended will depend on the
extent to which the Government follows up, providing the personnel



iv
and budgetary resources to continua the programs established.
Particularly in Sarawak, the outlook does not encourage optiaisu
primarily due to lack of allocated funds and shortages of qualified
persounel. In the future, during appraisal and loan negotiations,
more attention should be paid to ascertaining whether the Government
really has- a serious commitment, not only to the establishment of a
training program, but also to its long-term continuation as a
permanent facet of the operations of the relevant agencies.
considering   the   budgetary   implications   involved.       Such
considerations should be specifically reflected in loan agreemnts.
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



. . ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     1
NALA=~~~~~~~~
SABAN AND SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT (LOAN 2291-KATI
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEV   O THE BANK'S PERSPECTV
1.   SUMMARY PROJECT DATA
Proj act Nm_:       Sabah and Sarawak Road Project
Loan Number:        loan 2291-MA
RYP Unit:           East Asia and Pacific
Country:            Malaysia             Loan Amount:       US$86.220.000.00
Sector:             Transport            Canceled Amount:  US$15.734.594.82
Sub-sector:         Roads                Disbursed Amount: US$70,485.405.18
Approval Date:      05/26/83              Staff Appraisal Report: May 1983
Effective Date:     08/19/83             Original Closing Date:  06/30/89
Completion Date:    05/30/93             No. of Extensions:       3
Total Project Cost: US$130.5 K           Auended Closing Date:   06/30/92
Appraisal EgRR:     15                   Re-Assessed KnRK:       251
2.   BACKGROUND AND SECTORAL SETTING
2.1        The Federation of Malaysia consists of 13 states with a land surface
of 337,000 square kilometers (sq ks) and a population in 1992 of abaut 18
million, up from 13 million in 1980. The average annual population growth rate
is expected to be about 2.3X in the period 1991-2000. Eleven states are located
an the Malay Peninsula and the rew-ining two, Sabah and Sarawak, are on the
island of Borneo and separated from PeninulaLr Malaysia (PK) by the South China
Sea. About 851 of the total population lives In PM where population density is
about 125 persons per sq km and 85S of Malaysia's economic activity is generated.
The Government expects the recent economic boom to continue, anticipatizg CDP
increases averaging 72 per annum for the rest of this decade.
2.2         Sabah and Sgarak comprise about 602 of the total land surface of
Malaysia, with Sarawak approximately twice as large as Sabah. Most of the
production of the two states comes from the extraction of natural resources
(timber, oil, gas) and agriculture. About 602 of the labor force is engaged in
agriculture, and both states show large imports of food and manufactured
products.  The industrial sector is relatively  undeveloped, especially if
compared with PK. Both states have considerable agro-industrial potential but
development is constrained by shortages of skilled and experienced personnel and
by inadequate infrastructure and, in particular. poor roads.



-2-
2.3        Sabah itself has a land area of about 74,000 sq km and a strongly
indented coastline with many natural harbors.  Sea transport has historically
been the primary mode of transportation for both cargo and passengers, although
air transport has become important for the latter in recent years.   The
population was about 1.1 million in 1980 and reached approximately 1.5 million
in 1992, with a population density of about 20 persons per sq km. Most of the
land surface is mountainous and covered vith dense forest.   Historically,
forestry and logging were the major economic activities but, in recent years, oil
and copper extraction bave assumed increasing importance. Oil palm and cocoa
dominate the agricultural cash crop sector. The bulk of the rural population is
engaged in subsistence farming, with a large incidence of poverty coupled with
a serious income disparity with the urban population and those engaged in export-
related activities. Labor shortages continue to encourage iegal and illegal
imigration from the Philippines and Indonesia.
2.4        Sarawak, with a land area of about 128,000 sq km and a population of
about 1.4 million in 1982 and 1.8 million in 1992, borders Sabah but there is no
road cornection. Population density is about 15 persons per sq km. Its interior
highlands, heavily forested, slope down to a coastal plain.  Most of the
population lives in small rural communities and is engaged in subsistence
agriculture. Lacking any accessible road network, except for one trunk road
connecting its three major population centers, sea and river transport have
alway¶ been the primary mode for transportation and communication. Like Sabah,
theri s a large income disparity between the rural subsistence farmers and the
urban population and those engaged in export-related activities. Economic
activity is centered around the forestry and logging industries and the major oil
and gas extraction industry that has grown up in recent years. Domestically
consumed rice is a major crop, while appreciable exports of rubber and pepper
generate foreign exchange.
3.   BAIIK- f         IN THE SECTOR
3.1        The Bank has been deeply involved in the transport sector since the
early seventies, assisting the Government of Malaysia (GOM) to implement its
series of five-year plans to develop and improve Malaysia's transport
infrastructure. The Bank's assistance has traditionally focused on Sabah and PM
but its involvement in the transport sector has considerably diminished in recent
years. In both Sabah and Sarawak, highway planning was, until recently, quite
limited because the respective state ministries built roads where need was
perceived (suoject to the availability of funds) rather than on economically
justified grounds, with the objective being the construction of maximum road
lengths. Prior to this project, less than a third of the roads in the project
area were paved, and many lacked proper drainage, requiring costly repairs after
each rainy season. In addition, for a long time, the maintenance of existing
facilities received a much lower priority than did the construction of new roads.
As a result, many roads became impassable during the rainy season and others
required heavy repairs shortly after construction.
3.2        This was the eighth Bank-financed transport project in Malaysia, the
fourth in Sabah, and the first in Sarawak. Total Bank financing of these projects
amounted to US$157.3 million which included two port projects, one rail project,
one urban transport project, and four road projects. All have been completed



-3-
satisfactorily, although many delays and difficulties were encountered with
virtually all of these projects due to contractors' sobilization difficulties,
late ordering and receipt of materials, project management problems, late
issuance of permits and licenses, land acquisdtion difficulties, problems related
to removal of squatters from right-of-ways, and contractors, financial and cash
flow difficulties.
3.3         Subsequent to the approval of this Project, two other transport
projects were financed by the Bank: the Port Kelang Project in PM (Loans
2686/2687-MA of US$18.8 million in 1986) and the Highway Rehabilitatlon and
Improvement Project again in PM (Loan 3145-MA of US$83.2 million in 1989). The
Port Kelang Project has been satisfactorily completed after some appreciable
delays due to land acquisition difficulties and lack of ttmely budget
allocations.  The Highway Rehabilitation and Ioprovemnt Project, now being
implemented, is well underway despite some early delays in appointment of
consultants and preparation of tender docuaents, as well as difficulties caused
by the failure of the Government to provide adequate budgetary resources to
permit timely execution of project activities.
3.4        Under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1376-NA) substantial progress
was achieved in improving Sabb' as maintenance organization within its State
Public Works Department (SPUD), acquiring necessary mate         equipment and
initiating training (including establisbment of a Training Center) in  intenance
planning and operations. Nevrtheless, at the time of this project,  atenance
units were only in the process of beong established as permanent parts of the
SPUD and had few trained personznl. The situation in Sarawak was much worse,
with little actual attention given to preventive road maintenance and no separate
maintenance units within its SPUD, virtually no trained personnel available and
no training facilities or program for road saintenance.
3.5         The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) prepared for the Third
Highway Project (Loan 1376-NA) outlined two specific findings/lessons which are
particularly applicable to this project. These include the importance of: (a)
enforcing axle load limits to ensure road longevity; and (b) careful pre-
qualification of contractors to ensure that they have sufficient and appropriate
experience in order to reduce the possibility of subsequent frustration, cost
increases and construction delays.
4.   FOLLOW-ON IITTATIS M
4.1         The Sabah-Sarawak Road Transport Review, undertaken by consultants
financed under this Loan, provided a framework for future highway development in
the two states and part of the basis for the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-1990).
Feasibility studles for about 500 km of roads in Sarawak were also undertaken as
part of the Review to develop a portfolio of economically justified road projects
for consideration by available funding sources. Despite some initial discussions
regarding a possible follow-on project in Sarawak, the Government has decided to
proceed with further development of the road sector in both states using its own
resources.



-4-
4.2        The National Port Study, undertaken by consultants financed under
this Loan, provided a national ports plan including a framework for the future
development of Malaysia's  port sector with emphasis on intermodalsm  and
privatization. The results of the study provided input for planning of port
investments in the Fifth (1986-1990) and Sixth (1991-1995) Malaysia Plans.
4.3        The maintenance improvement and training components of the Project
provided a basis, in both Sabah and Sarawak, for improvements to the organization
and in-house capability of both SPUDs, with focus on training,programs and on
planning and implemntation of maintenance efforts.
s.   THE PRIECT
Oblectsves
5.1.       The Project was formulated to further the Government of MWlaysia's
(GOM) developpeental objectives and the Bank's lending strategy for Malaysia. The
main objective of the project was to improve rural trunk roads and agricultural
access roads in order to support agricultural and agro-industrial activities in
the rural areas of Sabah. Through an overall planning study for both states, it
was also expected to assist the future development of both Sabah2s and Sarawak's
transport networks so that both states could base their transport system
developent on more definite plans for agricultural, forestry and industrial
growth. The Project also aimed to help improve the road maintenance capabilities
and training efforts in both states and, by means of a comprehensive study,
provide a basis for future port imve:.cments throughout Malaysia.
De scr2iotLon
5.2        The project consisted of:
(a) road improvements in Sabah comprising construction and upgrading of
192 km of rural trunk roads and about 100 km (actual length vas
about 85 km) of agricultural access roads;
(b)   staff training in the Sabah and Sarawak SPUDs and construction of a
training center in Sarawak;
(c)  strengthening of the Saravak SPUD road maintenance organization by
establishing divisional maintenance units in two divisions as pilot
projects for replication throughout the state;
(d)   assistance to both Sabah and Sarawak to undertake a Road Transport
Review in order to produce a coordinated program for road
improvemnts, and to strengthen the collaboration among State
Development Offices (SDO) and SPUDs in project preparation and
sectoral planning. The Road Transport Review included preparation
of road feasibility studies in Sarawak to assist in the
establishment of a portfolio of economically justified road projects
for future consideration by available financing sources; and
(e)  assistance to the Federal Economic Planning Unit (EPU) to conduct a
National Ports Study.



-5-
Design and OrManization
5.3        The SPWD for each state is responsible for planning, design,
construction, uaintenance and administration of their state's highway network
under the general direction of the Federal Ministry of Works and the Federal
Public Works Departmert (PWD).   The planning function is carried out in
coordination with the State Development Offices (SDO) and State Economic Planning
Units (SEPU) in each state and is subject to review and approval by the Federal
EPU and Highway Planning Unit (HPU). For this Project, the SPWDs, in each cave,
were responsible for implementation of the project components that related to
their states, except that the two major studies carried out under the Project
(the Sabah-Sarawak Road Transport Review and the National Port Study) were
supervised by the Federal Economic Planning Unit (EPU) and, for the National Port
Study, by the Ministry of Transport (HOT). The Sarawak SPUD, nevertheless,
participated in the road feasibility studies that were carried out as part of the
Road Transport Review.
5.4        In January 1980, the Government appointed consultants to carry out
feasibility studies in Sabah for the improvement of rural trunk roads totaling
about 350 km, and for the construction of two major bridges to replace ferries
on the Kinabatangan and Segama Rivers in Sabah. In July 1981, the Covernment
commissioned the same consultants to carry out detailed engineering of the roads
and bridges. The report and drawings were found to be satisfactory although it
later  devela-sd  that  the  geotechnical  investigations  were  inadequate,
contributing to difficulties and cost increases during construction. Total
length of trunk road improvements to be financed under the project was 192 km,
consisting of 75.4 km of the new Sandakan-Telupid Rcad and 116.6 km of the
existing Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road. Under this Project, a joint venture of
expatriate and local consulting firms was appointed to carry out construction
supervision for these two trunk roads.   The two major bridges over the
Kinabatangan and Segama Rivers, however, while included in this Project, were not
financed under the Loan. Instead, the Government carried out their construction
using other resources.
5.5        The three agricultural access roads in Sabah included in the Project
were identified as priority needs by the Sabah SPUD and SDO. The design,
detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents for these roads, as well
as their construction supervision, were carried out by local consulting firms for
each road section appointed by SPUD, whose services were financed under the Loan.
5.6        The staff training and the improvements to maintenance operations in
both states were carried out by the SPrDs with the assistance of consultants.
For Sarawak, the Project included the provision of a Training Center In Kuching
and two Maintenance Depots in outlying districts. The consultants responsible
for the training component in Saravak also provided designs, detailed
engineering, preparation of tender documents and construction supervision
services, all financed under the Loan, for the Sarawak SPwD Training Center and
for the two Maintenance Depots.



-6-
Revisions and Amendments
5.7        US$15.0 million was canceled on January 24, 1987 at the request of
the Government, and US$734,594.82 was canceled at the time of the loan account
closing. The remaining amount, US$70.5 million, was disbursed under the project.
The Closing Date of the Loan was extended three times, from the original date of
June 30, 1989 to June 30, 1992, by which time all components had been completed
except for civil works on Section B1, which was not completed until June 1993.
6.   PRW CT Inol  l  o
Civil Vorks-Sabah
6.1         General. The start-up of the project was delayed by two and one-half
years due to a lack of appropriate budgetary allocations from the Government
during 1984 and 1985. This initial delay was further exacerbated by the slow
mobilization of contractors, poor performance of some of the contractors involved
in the Sabah road construction components, and deteriorating physical progress
on each of the Sabah contract packages. Land acquisition was significant only
for the SandAkan-Telupid Road.  However, the Government began to purchase the
necessary right-of-way early and although delays occurred. the process was.
completed by the time construction contracts were awarded.   There w   no
significant displacement of persons. The bid prices of the road contracts were
very low, the implementation periods far too short and the contractors
inexperienced. This resulted in slow progress, which was further exacerbated by
exceptionally heavy rains from November 1987 to early 1990.
6.2         Even after they begau, progress on the Sabah road works was slow,
partly due to this exceptionally heavy rainfall which often caused severe damage
to the works, but mainly due to the failure of the contractors to provide
adequate resources on a timely basis so that satisfactory progress in project
execution could be maintained.   For these and other reasons, most of the
contracts were completed much later than the original completion dates and some
even went beyond the extension dates. The Bank early urged that termination of
the contracts with the least progress be considered, an action which the
Government was reluctant to take.
6.3         However, after some additional work had been accomplished And after
an inspection of the sites in July 1989 by a Bank mission and extensive
discussions among SPWD officials, the supervision consultants and contractors,
and following a review of contract documents and an in-depth assessment prepared
by the consultants, it was determined by the Government that there were, at that
point in time, only marginal contractual grounds for invoking forfeiture or
termination procedures. It was noted that termination would lead to lengthy and
costly arbitration and that rebidding would take about one year with an
additional two years for construction. There would still be no guarantee of
better performance, and new contracts would likely double the cost of the
remaining works. In addition, in the interim, special contracts would have to
be established for the protection of work done. Thus the decision was made to
allow the existing contractors to continue. Despite its original reservations,
the Bank agreed with these actions. Nonetheless, in one case, due to the failure
of support efforts for an unsuitable contractor, it still became necessary, at
J



-7-
a later date, after many difficulties, and after the contractor abandoned the
site, to terminate a contract and appoint a new contractor to complete the work,
at a greatly increased cost and lapse of time.
6.4        To improve their cash flow, all of the local contractors applied to
the Government for.the release of retention monies against a bank guarantee.
Justification for the release of funds was based on the fact that there had been:
(a) exceptionally low bids and subsequent contract aounts; (b) substantial price
increases, but limited provision for price variation in the contracts; (c)
unfavorable exchange rates; and (d) extra costs (not reimbursable under the
contracts) due to exceptionally heavy rains.   The Government, with Bank
concurrence, eventually decided to release all retention monies.,
6.5         Progress improved about mid 1989, especially after the Government
released retention monies to ease cash flow problems.   Six contracts (Tawau-
Merotai Road, Sapi-Nangoh Road, Lahad Datu-Bakapit Road, Packages Al and A2 of
the Sandakan-Telupid Road and Package 52 of the Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road) were
finally completed after much delay, while Package B1 of the Lahad Datu-Sandakan
Road, where the contract was terminated after the contractor abandoned the site,
and a new contractor was appointed to complete the uncompleted works, was still
ongoing when the Loan closed. It was completed in June 1993.
6.6        Sa-dakan-Teluvid Road.  This 87.8 km road was the only unpaved
section of the highway linking the eastern and western parts of Sabah. The first
33 miles of road from Sandakan was paved, and from mile 33 to Telupid, it was
situated on hilly terrain. The road was built in 1960 to low geometrical
standards with gradients frequently in excess of 10, and in places as high as
14X. Traffic prior to the project was about 350 vehicles per day CVPD), half of
which were heavy, including about 40 logging trucks. Vehicle speed was low
because of poor road standards and rough gravel surface. Under the project, the
road was built partly on a new alignment which shortened the route distance by
12.4 km. The works also included five new bridges of 20 m and 30 m spans,
totaling 230 m. After project completion, traffic levels reached 1100 VPD (AADT)
in 1991 for the Sandakan-Telupid Road.
6.7        The construction work for the Sandakan-Telupid Road was divided into
two contracts (Packages Al and A2) which were awarded to the same expatriate
contractor with construction to start in September 1986 and a scheduled
completion date of September 1989.   From the beginning, progress on both
contracts was exceedingly slow, partly due to exceptionally bad weather and long
delays in obtaining a necessary quarry exploitation license from the Government.
However, even after the legal problem was solved (in part due to Bank
intervention) and the weather improved, the contractor was unable to provide
adequately skilled manpower or appropriate equipment to allow a satisfactory rate
of progress in project execution. As of the end of 1989, more tharn three years
after work had begun and three months beyond the original completion date, the
contractor had completed only 27Z of the work for Package Al and about 551 of the
Package A2 work.  The disparity was due to the contractor's decision to
concentrate resources on Package A2. The contractor's financial difficulties
exacerbated the situation and led to cash flow problems which were only partly
relieved by the Government's decision to release retention monies against bank



guarantees. As of the middle of 1990, the contractor had submitted substantial
claims, most of which had not, at that point in time, been agreed to by the
Engineer due to inadequate documentation by the contractor. The Government,
however, anxious to have the works finished, and taking into account the
contractor's insistence that work would stop unless all claims were settled,
negotiated, with the Bank's concurrence, the settlement of all claims through the
date of settlement (December 1990, when Package Al was 431 complete and Package
A2 was 791 complete) in the form of a lump sum payment in addition to the
contract price, increasing the cost for the two packages to N$128.5 million from
the original bid price of M$58.5 million.   In addition, a series of time
extensions were granted to the contractor, with final agreement on a revised
completion date of June 30, 1991 for Package A2 and April 30, -1992 for Package
Al. Progress thereupon improved, reaching 601 completion in May 1991 for Package
Al and 93Z for Package A2.
6.8         Package A2 was completed in September 1991, three months beyond the
revised completion date. Package Al was substantially complete by the end of
December 1991, appreciably ahead of the revised completion date of April 30,
1992. The quality of construction, in both cases, was satisfactory although a
number of defects, which were rectified, had been identified by the consultants.
Additionally, the pavements and shoulders were often damaged, during and after
construction, by heavily laden logging trucks, requiring constant repair and
major post-construction maintenance work.
6.9         Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road.  This 121.8 km road is part of the East
Coast road in Sabah joining Tawau with Sandakan. The project sectlon of the road
joined the Saudakan-Telupid road at mile 32 (Labuk Junction). The existing road
was built in the 1970s to gravel standards and had generally satisfactory
alignment and gradients, except on about 20 km from Labuk Junction, where the
vertical alignment required improvement. The traffic at the time of appraisal
was 450 VPD at Labuk Junction, growing to 800 VPD near Lahad Datu. The works
consisted of improvements to curves and gradients, widening of formation,
drainage, pavement, and three new bridges totaling 120 m in length. Two major
bridges (Kinabatangan and Segama) were included in the project but were financed
by the Government using its own resources. After project completion, traffic
levels reached 888 VPD (AADT) average for the entire road in 1991.
6.10        The construction work for the Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road wat divided
into two contracts (Packages B1 and B2).  Package B1 w    awarded to a joint
venture of two local contractors with construction to start in September 1986 and
a scheduled completion date of January 1989.  Package B2 was awarded to an
expatriate contractor with construction to start in September 1986 and a
scheduled completion date of September 1989. For both packages, substantial
initial delays took place due to the failure of both contractors to mobilize
adequate resources of material, equipment and manpower in the early stages of the
implementation period. These delays were exacerbated by the unusually inclement
weather that -was experienced during the same period.  For these and other
reasons, by the end of 1987 only 301 of the work for Package B1 had been
accomplished. The situation for Package B2 was much worse, the contractor having
accomplished only 161 of the work by the end of 1987.
6.11        Notwithstanding the early delays that occurred on Package B2, the



-9-
contract was completed in August 1990 without major problems and the contractor
performed quite well under difficult conditions, producing work of satisfactory
quality.   The earthwork required increased nearly 90X over the quantities
included in the original contract due to the encounter of extensive deposits of
soft, unsuitable material that had to be removed and replaced. In addition, it
proved necessary to allow time for enbankments to settle and to repair slips that
occurred in unstable areas.  The contractor was granted time extensions to
account for the various difficulties experienced that brought the scheduled
completion date to April 1991. The contractor, however, completed the work by
October 1990, except for some remedial work to be carried out during the
maintenance period of the contract. The contract price increased to N$35.7
million, some 21S higher than the original price, mostly dus- to. the increased
earthwork required. During and after construction, damage by heavily loaded
logging trucks made necessary the constant remediation of works on pavement and
shoulder areas, as well as major post-construction maintenance work.
6.12        For Package Bl, the contractor faced initial delays in carrying out
the work due to the unusually inclement weather and difficulty in obtaining
permits for quarry exploitation. In addition, the contractor vas inadequately
mobilized and organized, lacking adequate equipment, manpower and financial
resources to properly pursue the execution of the project vork. Poor management
of the resources available worsened the situation. By mid-1988, 22 nonths after
beginning work, only 35X of the work had been completed. The Government made
strenuous efforts to assist-the contractor in solving lts serious fLnancial
problems, irnluding the release of all retention monies, agreement to time
extensions that revised the completion date to October 1989, and use of its good
offices in an attempt to assist the contractor to sub-contract the works to a
firm capable of completing the work. Nevertheless, by June 1989, these problems.
had become insurmountable and the contractor ceased work, abandoning the site by
November 1989. Negotiations with the contractor's bank for a rescue package,
using a sub-contractor acceptable to the Government, were unsuccessful. As a
result, the Government, with Bank concurrence, negotiated another contract to
complete the remaining works with a local contractor at a considerable cost
increase. At the time of termination, the works were 421 complete; however, due -
to lack of maintenance during the interim period (16 months) and because of the
damage done to the road pavement and shoulders by heavily loaded logging trucks,
before the new contractor occupied the site the actual work needed to be
accomplished by the new contractor was about 751 of that originally p4anned.
After abandoning the site, the original contractor removed the plant, equipment
and material that were at the site.
6.13        The new contract for the completion of the uncompleted works in
Package BI was negotiated with and awarded to a local contractor for a cost of
M$46.5 million, making the total cost of Package Bl equal to M$58.2 million (less
the H$1.3 million performance bond forfeited).  Thus, including the monies
already expended, the original bid price for the work was quadrupled.  The
commencement date for ths new contract was during January 1991 (due to long,
drawn-out negotiations) and its scheduled completion date was in January 1993.
This contractor performed quite well despite some delay during the latter part
of the implementation period, mostly due to the need to carry out some additional
works. The contractor was granted a time extension of four months to allow for
this factor, bringing the scheduled completion date to the end of May 1993. As



- 10 -
of the end of April 1993, the work had been substantially completed, with only
some minor works to be accomplished by the end of May 1993. The quality of the
work carried out was satisfactory. Due to the damage done to the road pavement
and shoulders by heavily loaded logging trucks during and after construction,
continuous remedial works vere necessary during the course of the work and major
maintenance efforts will be necessary until such time as the overloaded vehicles
can be brought under control.
6.14       Aricultural Access Roads. These roads were Included in the project
to support agricultural development and to improve rural living conditions by
providing all-weather access to areas previously served seasonally or unreliably
by road. The roads included in the project were all located ixt Sabah and were
those whose construction opened up new agricultural areas and included: (a) the
Sapi-Nangoh Road (34 km); (b) the Lahad Datu-Bakapit Road (29 km); and (c) the
Tawau-Herotai Road (21.6 km).
6.15       Sayi-Nang2h Road.  This contract was awarded to a local contractor
with works beginning in May 1987 and with a scheduled completion date of May
1989.  Initial progress was very slow due to the contractor's inability to
quickly mobilize needed resources of manpower and equipment and due to the
exceptionally inclement weather experienced.   By May 1988, 12 months after
construction began, the work was only 12Z complete.  Progress then improved
somewhat, especially after the Government decided to release retention monies
against bank guarantees. Except for some minor works to be completed within the
maintenance period, the work was completed in January 1991, two months after the
revised completion date of November 1990. A time extension of 18 months had been
granted due to unavoidable delays experienced and time needed to accomplish
additional work. The final coutract price was M$14.2 million, some 19X higher
than the original price of H$11.9 million, mostly due to increased quantities.
No traffic surveys have yet been carried out for this road.
6.16       Lahad Datu-Bakauit Road.   Work on the Lahad Datu-Bakapit Road
commenced as scheduled in September 1987, but the local contractor made a very
poor start due to slow resource mobilization. Unusually heavy rainfall also
caused serious delays. By mid-1988, nine months after work began, the works were
only 12X complete. Heavily loaded logging trucks using the roads during the
construction period and afterward also caused damage which required rectification
before further work could be done and will require major maintenance wbrk on a
continuing basis. The contractor was graLted a time extension until the end of
January 1991 to account for delays caused by weather and increases in required
work, and completed the work within this extended time frame. After completion,
traffic reached 1453 VPD (AADT) in 1990.
6.17       Tawau-Nerotai Road. Excessive rainfall contributed to the delays in
progressing the work on this contract, as did the local contractor's early
difficulty in providing adequate suitable equipment to carry out the work. The
work commenced in December 1986 with a scheduled completion date of August 1988.
The Government granted the contractor time extensions, which brought the
completion date to February 1989.   After the appointment of a different
subcontractor which helped to accelerate the rate of progress, the works were
completed in July 1989, six months after the revised completion date. The final
i



- 11. -
contract cost was H$10.6 million, the original bid price, with the cost of
additional work needed on the projtect being accommodated within the contingency
and daywork allowances. After completion, traffic reached 3113 VPD (AADT) on
this road in 1991.
6.18        KinabatanLwn and Se5a  e.dresdm.  These major bridges on the LahAd
Datu-Sandakan Road in Sabah were not financed under the Loan but were included
in the Loan Agreement, pursuant to which the Government was to complete their
construction by December 31, 1987. Although the tendering of the hridges was two
years late, the tenders were let simultaneously with the project's trunk road
components.  The delivery of superstructure steel, however, was delayed by
several months due to unseasonably heavy rains where they were being fabricated.
Despite these delays, and since the bridges progressed in a more orrderly fashion
relative to the road components, they were completed before the road work was
completed. Segama Bridge was completed and opened to traffic in August 1989,
while Kinabatangan Bridge was opened in June 1990. Since the bridges provided
24 hour access across the rivers, the ferry service was discontinued.
Civil Works - Saravak
6.19        Training Center.  The contract for construction of a new Training
Center in Kuching for Sarawak's SPUD was awarded to a local contractor, with the
design and supervision of construction carried out by a local consulting firm
(part of a joint venture of expatriate and local firms engaged to carry out the
training and technical assistance program for Sarawak's SPUD). The construction
contract included site work, classroom training center, quarters, training
workshops and ancillary equipment and facilities. The contract was signed in
September 1988, work began in December 1988 and was completed satisfactorily on
schedule and within budget in January 1990. The Training Center was formally
opened on August 28, 1990. Host of the facilities were fully equipped and some
courses were taught there by local instructors beginning in late 1990.
6.20        Maintenance DeRots.  The construction of the two new maintenance
depots for Sarawak's SPwD were awarded to local contractors, after a very late
start on implementation by the SPwD, with the design and supervision of
construction carried out by a local consulting firm (part of a joint venture of
expatriate and local firms engaged to carry out the training and technical
assistance program for Sarawak's SPUD). The work on the construction contract
for the maintenance depot at Balai Ringin, SAarahan, Sarawak, including living
quarters, site work, workshop and ancillary equipment and facilities, began in
October 1991 with completion scheduled for August 1992. By the end of June 1992
when the Loan closed, work had  reached 68Z completion.   The work was
satisfactorily completed in October 1992 with final cost less than that
originally bid due to some reductions in the required work. The work on the
construction contract for the maintenance depot at Selangau, Sibu, Sarawak began
in December 1991 with a scheduled completion date of December 1992. The contract
included site work, living quarters, workshop and ancillary equipment and
facilities and, at the time that the Loan closed at the end of June 1992, work
had reached 41X of completion. The work was satisfactorily completed in January
1993, at a cost somewhat below the original contract price due to reductions in
work required. The Project had originally included the upgrading of some of
Sarawak's existing maintenance depots but the Government decided to carry out



-12-
that work using its own resources over a longer time period.
EauiMent. Tools. Books and Materials
6.21       For Sabh, necessary training equipment, tools, books and materials
were procured and supplied by the expatriate consultants engaged to provide
technical assistance for maintenance improvement and training to Sabah *s SPUD.
The equipment, tools and materials for classroom and workshop training were
obtained through tenders let by the consultants at an aggregate cost of
M$650,000. By mid-1990, all equipment, tools and materials had been purchased
and received.
6.22       For  Sarawak,  necessary  training  equipment,  tools,  books  and
materials, including computer hardware and software for implementation of the
Road Maintenance Management System (RHES) and vehicles to permit improved
inspection of on-going maintenance work, were procured under the Project by
Sarawak,s SPUD.  By the end of 1990, all equipment, tools and materials,
including that required for the Training Center, had been obtained at an
aggregate cost of H$1.7 million.  The Project also included the procurement of
road maintenance equipment, based on the recommendations of the technical
assistance consultants. This equipment was obtained by the SPUD for an aggregate
cost of M$1.98 million and financed under the Loan.
Training Programs and IMnrovements to Naintenance Onerations
6.23        In Sabah, a joint venture between an expatriate consulting firm and
local consulting firms was engaged to assist the Sabah SPUD to carry out its
maintenance training program. including improving planning, administration and
implementation of maintenance operations.  The technical assistance provideA
began in January 1988 after some delay because of protracted consultant selection
and contract negotiation, and was completed in February 1990, providing SPUD with
valuable assistance in further establishing and extending its maintenance
training programs (which had been initiated with Bank assistance under the Third
Highway Project, Loan 1376-MA) and helping to upgrade maintenance management and
manpower planning and personnel policies.   The consultants also procured
necessary training equipment, tools and materials for SPUD under their contract.
During the two year course of the technical assistance for training, 35 courses,
largely focussed on road maintenance and workshop operations, were dePeloped,
local instructors were trained and a total of 349 SPwu staff attended courses.
In addition, seminars in manpower planning and development and in monitoring and
evaluation systems were organized for higher level staff.  As part of this
component, a numier of Sabah, s SPUD staff were provided with overseas fellowships
financed by the Bank. A total of 22 SPUD personnel attended these overseas
courses relating to road maintenance planning and operations. The training and
maintenance improvement efforts were successful and are expected to be continued
as a pernmnent facet of SPUD's operations.
6.24        In Sarawak, a joint venture among two expatriate consulting firms and
a local consulting firm was engaged to assist the Sarawak SPUD in: (a)
establishing a road maintenance division within SPUD and improving the planning,
organization, management and execution of road maintenance operations in Sarawak;
and (b) strengthening and expanding staff training activities of SPWD, including,



- 13 -
among other things, establishment of a Training Center, a Manpower Development
and Training Unit, a Road Maintenance Management System (RMNS), an Equipment
Management System, and a Training Production Unit. These consulting services
began in December 1986 and were completed in June 199G. During this time, over
1500 SPWD staff were trained, including local instructors who are expected to
continue implementation of the training programs on a permanent basis. These
services were suecessful in reaching the goals originally set and provided
valuable assistance to SPWD in achieving its objectives of establishing an
improved training organization and program and rationalizing, its planning,
administration and execution of road maintenance operations.
Consulting Services
6.25       Under the Project, in addition to the consulting services for
technical assistance described above, the Government engaged consulting firms to-
carry out construction supervision for trunk roads in Sabah; to carry out
designs, preparation of tender documents and construction supervision for the
agricultural access roads in Sabah and for the Training Center and Maintenance
Depots in Saravak; and to carry out the Road Transport Study in Sarawak and the
National Port Study for all of Malaysia. All of these consultancy services were
satisfactorily carried out and completed, although some of the assignments had
to be extended due to the delays in completion of the associated road works.
6.26       In addition, provision of consultancy services for the design and
preparation of contract documents for the BakaDit-Tungu Road was added to this
project during implementation.  This section of road was to be constructed
through finanring provided under a Bank agricultural loan proposed at that time,
the Sabah Land Settlement and Environmental Management Project (later Loan 3030-.
MA). The Bank agreed to finance the design of this section of road from Loan
2291-MA in order to expedite its execution. The work was successfully completed.
In addition, the design and preparation of tender documents for the Sandakan
Interchange, the uncompleted connection between the Sandakan-Telupid Road and the
Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road, was also completed under the Project with financing for
construction to be provided by the Government from its own resources and
construction to be undertaken at a later date. Also, during implementation of
the Project, a missing link (one half of one km) joining these two trunk roads
in the vicinity of Sandakan was also discovered. Improvement of this section was
designed by the consultants and was carried out through an addendum to one of the
existing contracts.
Studies
6.27        Sabah-Sarawak Road Transport Review. The Government engaged a joint
venture between an expatriate consulting firm and local consultants to carry out
a review of the road networks of the two states in order to: (a) identify
constraints for the optimal operation of road transport in the two states and
between them; (b) identify constraints from inadequate road infrastructure upon
agricultural, forestry and other resource development; and (c) establish
priorities for the expansion and improvement of the road transport network. The
Review identified priorities in development of trunk and feeder roads in Sabah
and Sarawak, including the Pan-Borneo Highway, and deficiencies in operation and
management of the road stock, specifically inadequate maintenance. In addition,



- 14 -
feasibility studies and preliminary engineering were carried out for a total of
fifteen road schemes in Sarawak, totaling 497 km, to provida the Sarawak SPUD
with a stock of economically justified road projects for future financing from
available sources. The Review began in December 1985 and was satisfactorily
completed in April 1989.
6.28        National Ports Study.   A joint venture between an expatriate
consulting firm and local firms was appointed by the Government to review
existing port facilities and current administrative practices.   The Study
prepared a long term port development program including both an investment plan
and measures for operational improvements. It also focussed on the objective of
promoting direct shipping via Malaysian ports and, at the same time, ninimizing
transport costs, goals which are not always compatible. ffeaxs of promoting
increased port productivity and avoiding duplication of port facilities were also
examined as were intermodal considerations and port privatization policies. Ths
Study began in August 1986 and was completed satisfactorily in March 1988.
Land Acquisition
6.29        Land acquisition for road right-of-way purposes in Sabah was carried
out by the SPWD. Since the land was required largely for widening of an existing
road in a rural area, no appreciable resettlement of persons was required. In
Sarawak, some very minor land purchases for the training center and maintenance
depcts were undertaken by the SPUD, without the need for any racettlement of
persons. All land acquisition in both states was financed by the Government
utilizing its own resources.
Procurement
Civil Vorks
6.30        Prepualification.  A large number (over 50) of foreign and local
contractors were originally prequalified to undertake the road works for the
Sandakan-Telupid Road and the Lahad Datu-SandAkan Road in Sabah, each of which
were divided into two contract packages to be tendered under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Contractors,
depending on their capacity to undertake the work, were prequalified to bid for
all or some of the four contract packages. The Bank reviewed and approved the
prequalification documents and questionnaires, the evaluation methodology and,
eventually, the list of contractors permitted to bid.  Due to the lack of
budgetary resources available to the Sabah SPWD, further action relating to the
calling of tenders was postponed for more than two years. When funding became
available, the program was revived and all those who had applied previously were
contacted and the data updated for those who still evidenced interest in
tendering. In addition, a number of additional companies were added to the list,
after their suitability was investigated. The Bank reviewed and concurred in all
of these activities and decisions as well. While the SPUD carefully followed the
proper procedure as approved by the Bank, insufficient judgement was applied to
the ratings established for some firms, and despite the various reviews and
approvals by the Bank, all the contractors who were later awarded contracts
experienced substantial difficulties in carrying out the work and meeting their
financial obligations, in one case finding itself unable to complete the work.



- 15 -
Other factors, such as very bad veather and unexpectedly poor sub-surface soil
conditions, also contributed to the difficulties experienced.
6.31        Prequalification exercises were also undertaken, when funds became
available, for-the Lahad Datu-Bakapit Road, the Sapi-Nangoh Road and the Tawau-
Merotai Road in Sabah, also to be let under ICB. A large number of applications
were received for each of these road sections and the Bank agreed with the
results of the evaluation of prequalification documents by SPWD. Nevertheless,
the contractors who were awarded the work experienced similar problems as
described above, although they eventually managed to complete the work.
6.32       Tendering.   Under ICB, tenders were called, after the Bank had
approved the relevant tender documents, for each of the road sections. The four
packages for the Sandakan-Telupid Road and the Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road were let
at the same time with bidders, according to their prequalification status, being'
permitted to bid on any or all of the packages. The other three road sections
were called individually when their designs and contract documentation were
completed. Low bids received, in all cases, were exceptionally low, ranging from
13Z to 45Z below the engineer's estimate, perhaps reflecting the state of the
road construction market at the time and the large numbers of interested bidders.
Nevertheless, even though some of the bids were low enough to cause concern about
the ability of the contractors to properly complete the work, the contracts were,
in all cases, awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder without any increase in the
performance bond required. The Bank concurred with these awards. Since two of
the contract packages (Al&A2-Sandakan to Telupid Road) were awarded to a
contractor who had bid them jointly and was found to be the low bidder, there
were a total of seven contracts to be implemented.
6.33        Other tenders were called- with Bank agreement, under Local
Competitive Bidding procedures for the Sarawak SPWD Training Center in Kuching
and the Maintenance Depots at Selangau and Balai Ringin in Sarawak.  The
contracts were awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, and were completed without
major difficulties.
kauipment
6.34        Equipment needed for training purposes by the Sabah SPWD was obtained
as part of the technical assistance consultancy services for training Included
under the Project. For the Sarawak SPWD, equipment needed for the Training
Center and for maintenance purposes was procured through Local Shopping
procedures, in accordance with the limitations set forth in the Loan Agreement,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Technical_Assistance and Consultancy Services
6.35        Technical assistance for training in Sabah and Sarawak was obtained
through engagement of specialist consulting firms in each case which provided the
needed expertise. Consultancy services for design, detailed engineering and
preparation of tender documents for the three agricultural access roads included
in the Project were obtained through the appointment of consulting engineering
firm which also carried out the construction supervision for each contract. For



- 16 -
the two trunk roads, the designs and preparation of contract documents had been
previously completed by the Government and only construction supervision of the
works was included under this Project.  Consultancy services for design and
preparation of tender documents were also obtained for Sarawak SPUD's training
center and two maintenance depots, with construction supervision provided by the
same consultants. -The design, detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents for an additional length of agricultural access road (the Bakapit-Tuniku
Road) and for an interchange providing connections between the two trunk roads
in Sabah were also included for financing in this Project. In addition, two
major studies were carried out by consulting firms under this Project, a National
Port Study for all of Malaysia and a Road Transport Review for Sabah and Sarawak.
Costs
6.36        In spite of the unrealistically low bids, and due to the delays and
difficulties encountered, as well as the need to increase the required work
because of unexpected field conditions encountered, the actual cost of the road
construction work in Sabah was N$295 million compared to the original bid amounts
of M$171 million, an increase of 72X.   Compared to the appraisal estimate
(without contingencies) of M$217 million, there was an increase of 361. These
amounts include the costs of construction supervision by consultants which
themselves nearly doubled (increasing from the K$13.7 million estimated (without
contingencies) at the time of appraisal) to a total of M$25.3 million, primarily
because of the exceptional increase in the time required for completion of
construction work, necessitating long extensions to the consultant's contract.
6.37        The cost of the consultancy services in Sabah for training and
improvements to maintenance operations, including acquisition of training
equipment and materials, on the other hand, was only about 541 of the amount that
had been estimated at appraisal.  This was due to savings in the cost of
consultancy services and reductions in equipment acquisition plans. For Sarawak,
substantial increases occurred in the costs of consultancy services and in the
construction costs for the Training Center over those that had been estimated at
the time of appraisal.  However, other costs for the component related to
training and maintenance operation improvement, including the acquisition of
equipment, were close to or less than those estimated. Overall, the actual cost
of this Sarawak component increased by 17S over that estimated at appraisal.
6.38        For the two studies included in the Project, actual costs for the
Sabah-Sarawak Road Transport Review increased by about 201 over that estimated
at appraisal, while the cost for the National Port Study was slightly below that
originally estimated. In Sabah, land acquisition costs of H$12. 0 million (not
included in the Project's cost estimates) increased about 601 ever SPWD's
original cost estimates. Land acquisition costs in Sarawak were minimal, less
than that estimated.
6.39        Despite the substantial increases in the costs of road construction
and consulting services compared to those originally estimated, the Project's
overall costs, when contingency allowances are taken into account, were actually
slightly less (4X) than the total estimate made at the time of appraisal.
Foreign exchange costs, which were the portion of costs that the Bank loan
(US$86.22 million) was to defray, including both direct and indirect costs, are
i



- 17 -
estimated to be close to those anticipated al: che time of appraisal (58X of total
costs). In addition, after the cancsllati,;t of US$15 million from the loan at
the request of the Government, the Bank's coutribution to project financing would
have been US$71.22 million (57X of total actual costs). Further, at the time of
loan account closing, an additional unused amount of US$0.73 million was
canceled.  Therefore, the actual amount of Bank financing. US$70.5 million,
represented 56Z of total actual costs of US$125.2 million equivalent, close to
the 58Z originally estimated. Nevertheless, it is clear that the Bank loan
financed a portion of the project's local costs.
Disbursements
6.40        The Loan became effective on August 19, 1983.   Due to the
Government' s unwillingness to commit any resources to the Project, there was no
progress in beginning izplementation until 1986, when budgetary resources began
to become available, and no disbursements at all until the fall of 1986, a
disbursement lag of almost three years. Disbursement experience subsequent to
1986 proceeded at a rate of about one-half that which had been estimated for the
early years of project implementation at the time of appraisal, conforming to the
slower pace of project execution that actually occurred.  As problems and
difficulties that were encountered during the course of project implementation
were solved or surmounted, the rate of disbursement increased substantially.
Overall, except for the unfortunate delay in beginning work on the Project,
disbursement experience was satisfactory, generally conforming to the applicable
profile. The Loan closed on-June 30, 1992, although some project components had
not yet been completed, with US$2.63 million being disbursed after the Closing
Date for expenditures related to work accomplished prior to Loan closing. The
final disbursement was made on October 28, 1992. The costs of work carried out.
after the Closing Date were borne entirely by the Government from their own
resources.
7.   PROWECT RESULTS AND LESSONS LEARKED
7.1        In-Sabah. prequalification, although carried out using Bank-approved
procedures and methodology, was generally poorly done with insufficient rigor
applied, resulting in works being awarded to some poorly qualified contractors.
The result was extensive delays. Although there were extenuating circumstances
(heavy and long periods of rain), many of the contractors lacked appropriate
experience, were slow to mobilize, and had limited financial resources to provide
adequate equipment, personnel and material and to cover protracted delays. In
Sarawak, project civil works contractors performed satisfactorily, albeit with
some delays. The equipment suppliers in both states, who were both local and
foreign, generally performed satisfactorily and delivered equipment on time.
Consultancy services and technical assistance in both states were, in general,
provided in a satisfactory manner by both local and foreign firms. Insofar as
the Sabah-Sarawak Road Transport Review, the National Ports Study, and the road
feasibility studies in Sarawak are concerned, all were completed satisfactorily
and their recommendations taken into account in the Government's planning.
7.2         Overall, the project had mixed results.  Although all works were
eventually completed, there were significant delays and problems in



- 18 -
implementation. Bids for road works were exceptionally low, ranging from 132 to
451 below engineering estimates, and the time allowed for completion was, in
retrospect, too short. In addition, most of the low bidders for the road works
were inexperienced in road works. The others either were not familiar with the
type of weather, topography or soil conditions found in Sabah or assigned very
inexperienced personnel to carry out the works who were not replaced with more
qualified staff, even after difficulties worsened. This led to construction
delays, extension of contracts and price increases. * The heavy rains and the
contractors' lack of sufficient financial resources also lengthened the time
needed to complete the work. As a result, substantial cost overruns occurred in
the road construction contracts in Sabah, as well as in the associated consulting
services for supervision, due to lengthy delays in the completipn of the works.
Economic Evaluation
7.3       Between 1985 and 1991, traffic on the project roads has increased
between 71 and 24Z depending on the segment. At the time of appraisal, it was
forecast to increase at about 12.5X to the year 1994, and 7.5Z thereafter.
7.4       Sandakan-Teluiid Road.  Traffic on this section has been groving at
a slightly faster rate than that forecast in the SAR. In 1991 actual average
annual daily traffic (AADT) -was 1101 compared to the projected traffic of 954.
The reason for this higher rate relates to the fact that a number of agricultural
projects have come on stream during this period, the cumulative result of Which
has impacted traffic growth.
7.5       Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road. This is the only section where traffic has
been growing at a slower rate than that forecast in the SAR. In 1991 actual AADT
was 888 while that projected was 1245. The main reason for the drop in traffic
growth relates to the fact that logging output in the area has been virtually
exhausted at this point, although there is ample agricultural land with a number
of schemes being developed for the cultivation of cocoa, oil palm, coffee,
pepper, rice and rubber. There is also a new forestry (5500 hectares) scheme
being planned at Batu Putch. When these projects are realized it is expected
that the rate of traffic growth will increase.
7.6       Tawau-Merotai Road.   Since 1985, traffic has been growing at an
average rate of about 7.5Z annually. The SAR notes that in 1983 the ADT for this
road was about 800. In 1991, it had risen to 3113. Between 1983 and 1985,
traffic on this section had more than doubled due to a number of private
development schemes in its area of influence which had been completed.
7.:      YLahad Datit-Bakit Rbod. Traffic on this section has been growing at
an average rate of over 20X between 1985 and 1991. This is due mainly to the
completion of a number of agricultural development schemes coupled with the fact
that this road forms part of the Tengu and Tambison Roads uhich have been
instrumental in opening up an extensive area hitherto inaccessible to rural
development.



- 19 -
7.8       Saoi-Nanaoh Road.  The construction of this upenetration' road was
intended to support the development of several large oil palm plantations and a
rice growing estate, which together were expected to provide employment for about
2,300 persons by providing year-round access to hitherto inaccessible are1s.
However, no information is presently available concerning traffic on this road.
Traffic surveys are to be undertaken in late 1993.
Proit-vt Costs and Benefits
7.9       As noted earlier, costs for the trunk roads in Sabah escalated
markedly over those estimated during appraisal, while costs for the agricultural
access roads in Sabah increased only slightly over appraisal estimates. As in
the SAR, vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings have constituted tse main benefits
for all road improvement components. There is, however, some difference between
SAR estimates (average saving of 0.380 H$/km) and the reevaluated benefits (0.529
M$/km). Maintenance cost savings, while appreciable in theory, were not included
in the reevaluation because of the constant need to repair the continuing damage
caused by logging trucks. Also, the Sapi-Nangoh Road component (one of the
agricultural roads under the project) was not reevaluated on a quantified basis
due to a lack of traffic information and other data. There is little doubt,
however, that the increased production of agricultural products (oil palm and
cocoa) due to the provision of the road would easily produce an EIRR at least
equal to the 121 estimated during appraisal.
7.10      Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRRs) were calculated for each of
the other road components separately. While costs have increased, changes in
traffic growth coupled with increased VOC savings, have resulted in significant
differences between appraisal and reevaluated EIRRs. The results are as follows:.
ECONOMIC INTERnAL RATES OF RETURN (EIRBs)
-  *od Se o,4gmenlt.                 .AEtmt ',   | *:~
_~~~~~~~~. .. ......
A.  Sandakan-Telupid                                17.6Z          20.8X
B.  Lahad Datu-Sandakan                             13.2X          21.6X
C. Tawau-Merotai                                    19.1X          47.51
D.  Lahad Datu-Bakapit                              15.11          27.61
E.  Sapi -Nangoh                                    11.7X          N.A.
" Overall EIRR (A through D)                                       25.21
Lessons learned
7.11      There are four primary lessons to be learned from the implementation
of this project:
(a) More care should have been taken in the prequalification process to
ensure that contractors had the requisite experience, capability and,
just as importantly, the financial resources to properly carry out the



- 20 -
work.   Contracts should not be routinely awarded to marginally
acceptable firms which have submitted unreasonably low bids, as in
this case.  Instead, after a review of the Engineers, Estimate to
ascertain its reasonableness, the likelihood of the contractores
failure should be realistically assessed, and appropriate action taken
before letting the contract. At a minimum, if contractors with less
than desirable financial resources were, for whatever reason, to be
awarded contracts, then the performance bond required should have been
increased to a level where their default, although undesirable, would
not create insurmountable difficulties.   Where properly qualifled
contractors also submitted unreasonably low bids, more care should
have been taken to ensure that satisfactory remedies were available
in the event of later difficulties.
(b) When it developed that certain contractors, due to shortage of funds,
lack of qualified personnel or general incompetence, could not
properly complete the work within a reasonable time frame, the
Government should have canceled their contracts for cause, as the Bank
had strongly recomended at an early stage, without undue delay andr
used another contractor to complete the work rather than entering into
a long, drawn out process of assistance to the contractor which, in
some cases, did not have a satisfactory outcome and contributed to
long delays in completion of the work and substantial increases in
costs.
(c)  It has become abundantly clear, with Sabah and Sarawak as cases in
point, that unless some reasonable control can be exercised over
excessive axle loads, the rapid deterioration of road infrastructure
cannot be avoided. The heavily overloaded trucks carrying timber and
other products in both states continue to damage road pavement
structures. Until the Government begins to make more serious efforts
to limit these axle loadings, all road users will continue to
encounter increased costs and inconvenience. While previous efforts
in this direction were undertaken without success under the Third
Highway Project (Loan 1376-MA), the problem is now being viewed by the
Government with more concern, and despite continued resistance by
those affected economically, further efforts to control overloaded
trucks throughout Malaysia, including Sabah and Sarawak, are being
mounted under the on-going, Bank-financed Highway Rehabilitation and
Improvement Project (Loan 3145-MA), and by other means.
(d) The major training efforts mounted under this project in both Sabah
and Sararak generally achieved their objectives and can be considered
to have been successful. Hovever, now that the consultants employed
have completed their work and have left, the enduring effect of these
efforts, and of the funds that were expended, will depend on the
extent to which the Government follows up, providing the personnel and
budgetary resources to continue the programs established. Particularly
in Sarawak, the outlook is not bright due to a continued lack of
allocated funds and shortages of qualified personnel. In the future,
during appraisal and loan negotiations, more attention should be paid
to ascertaining whether the government really has a serious
JJ



- 21 -
comitment, not only to the establishment of a training program, but
also to its long-term continuation as a permanent facet of the
operations of the relevant agencies, considering the budgetary
implications involved. Such considerations should be specifically
reflected in future loan agreements.
8.  SZUSTAINABILIY4E&NING ISSUES_-
8.1       Road maintenance in both Sabah and Sarawak presents a continuing and
difficult problea which seriously affects the sustainability of road investments.
Despite the improvements made to the maintenance organization and increased
maintenance capability of both states through this and previous projects (the
Bank-financed Third Highway Project, Loan 1376-HA, for example) and
notwithstanding the increased budgetary allocations provided by both federal and
state governments for maintenance in recent years, the continued lack of
enforcement by the responsible agencies of the laws and regulations relating to
allowable axle loads on public roads by logging interests is continuing to cause
the accelerated deterioration of roads in both states.
8.2       This situation, exacerbated by a shortage of trained staff and poor
efficiency regarding the use of maintenance equipment, may require that many of
the roads will need to be periodically upgraded to a maintainable condition, as
has been the case in the past. Although the authorization for positions and
staff for the newly created maintenance and training organizations was effective,
filling these positions proved difficult as staff were attracted to better paying
positions in the private sector. Some relief did come, however, from personnel
transfers.  In order that the progress made in improving maintenance capability
be sustained, the Government will need to provide sufficient budgetary zesources
for maintenance operations and provide adequate numbers of qualified personnel
to plan, direct and perform necessary activities, including authorization of full
staffing of the maintenance and training organizations. Further, in order for
improved maintenance efforts to be effective in providing satisfactory road
conditions for the traveling public, the Government will need to take the actions
necessary to provide proper control of axle loadings and truck sizes so that
excessive damage to the roads due to overloaded and oversize trucks is prevented.
8.3       In terms of the enforcement of axle load limits, the one loan covenant
which was only partially complied with concerned "measures to prohibit logging
trucks exceeding the legal axle limits from using the project trunk roads in
Sabah,,. Several successful measures to improve axle load control have been or
are being taken, including repair and rehabilitation of the six weighbridges that
had been obtained and installed under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1376-MA)
and had become inoperable due to lack of maintenance, neglect and vandalism; and
the provision of five additional veighbridge installations under the or-going
Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (Loan 3145-MA). In addition,
seven checkpoint facilities were constructed at various critical locations in
Sabah and two were fully operational 24 hours a day. Weighbridges were not
initially available at these facilities, although the Bank did indicate its
willingness to finance the rehabilitation and construction of new weighbridges
with surplus funds from the Loan. The Bank suggested 24 hour enforcement for all
the seven stations until such time as laws on the importation of heavy vehicles,



- 22 -
or the introduction of fiscal measures to discourage the use of inappropriate
vehicles (those with insufficient axles to carry their load within the legal
limits) was enacted. Nevertheless, there is still a need to revise the law in
order to enable the use of portable weighbridges for enforcement.
8.4       For Sarawak, three veighbridge installations are being provided under
the Bank's Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (Loe.. 3145-HA). When
these weighbridges become operational, it will be possible to begin enforcing the
law and regulations more strictly regarding restrictions on the -gross weight and
axle loads of vehicles. It is necessary, as well, to revise the current law in
order to enable the use of portable weighbridges for enforcement.
9.  B ]N
9.1       Bank performance was good throughout the project cycle but perhaps
most important during identification and preparation. The Bank did provide a
continuity of involvement throughout implementation, with minimum staff changes.
Supervision was regular and staffed with appropriate personnel. The Bank urged
the Government early on to take strong action regarding the failure of the road
contractors in Sabah to properly pursue the execution of the work.   The
Government's unwillingness to act expeditiously, while perhaps understandable,
was a major factor in producing the project's. delays and cost overruns.
10. BORROwM PER      CE
10.1      Except for the long delay in providing needed budgetary resources, the
Borrower Is performance was generally good throughout project preparation and
implementation. The staff of the SPWDs for both states accelerated the process
of project preparatian by readily providing the information requested and
continued to show enthusiasm during project implementation. Compliance with Loan
Covenants was generally good, and the rapidly growing technical capabilities and
experience of the SPUDs were demonstrated zany times during project execution.
10.2      The Borrower, however, was unwilling to take early action against
contractors that did not show sufficient progress on the road work contracts in
Sabah, instead trying in several ways to assist the contractors to meet their
finAncial  and  scheduling  obligations.    This  understandable  reluctance
nevertheless contributed to the delays and cost increases that were experienced.
In retrospect, the Government would have been better served by terminating the
contracts of the worst offenders early and appointed more capable contracto-z to
complete the work, as it finally did in one case after the contractor abandoned
the site.
11. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
11.1      The good working relationship developed between the Federal PWD and
the Sabah SPwD and the Bank in the course of previous Bank-supported projects
continued under this Project, and facilitated project preparation and



23 -
implementation. A similar excellent working relationship between the Saravak
SPUD and the Bank was established during the course of implementation of this
Project.
Consulting Services
11.2      Consultants were engaged under  the project to:  (a)  carry out
feasibility studies, designs and construction supervision; (b) assess road
maintenance organizations; (c) undertake staff training; and (A) undertake a.
Sabah-Sarawak Road Transport Reviev and a National Ports Study. Although there
were delays in selection and contract negotiation, the consultants performed well
in project implementation and maintained good working relation,ships with the
Government agencies and the Bank.
Contractors/Sumliers
11.3      Project civil works contractors in Sarawak and equipment suppliers in
both states, who were both local and foreign, generally performed satisfactorily
and delivered equipment on time. Major difficulties were experienced with the
civil works contractors (except for one) in Sabah which are describe4 elsewhere
in this Report.
12. PROWECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1     The covenants contained in the Loan Agreement were reasonable and the
Borrower generally complied with them. In addition, the staff appraisal report
provided a useful reference framework during project implementa ton.  Project
documentation by the two state SPUDs was generally adequate and the availability
of data for project monitoring was, in general, satisfactory. Bank project
files, Bank supervision reports and the progress reports received from the two
SPUDs provided useful information and data for the preparation of this Report.
12.2     The fact that project components were implemented by three different
government agencies without any central control and reporting authority created
difficulties in data gathering and in monitoring the overall project.
Coordination of efforts by a central authority would have improved the situation.



.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
i  L3



- 25
Page 2
ihe various aspecs of the projec   Malter  wkhc  rquired the urgt
attention of the govcrnment were actively discussed and dec6ion expeditiously
reamhed and g1ivw whici othemi%c would not how been. posmie becau  cf
burcuuatic pscduru.
BdikP BcI   ane aa - :
For various reson. all the twxuctkion contracts fell behind  m-hedule.
Although thr  wem differnces of opnion betwixun  the Hank and the
Borrower on thc maUer of temination of contacis semingly du- to ihe
poor performance of the contractors at thc time. theelose rap pon asd ekoie
co-labbwion belween lbe Hank and The Borower and a clear undenAanding
of the problens at hand prevailcd in tdie *nd. All projecs witis sc cwcpe ion
of 1acka  Ill wv    completd lbv the original contraoru Package HI L%
now substatiall completd.
Lbu  IAared
Scktiou of Countracton
His for the condruction of onads yoieas w*r invited duringthe
econonmical n.enion period. The lowesr tender pnces rem-eid
were all well below the entineers estimates. The economy c rf te
country stmed to recover during the constmrution period. Thc
prices of mantalu  and  other operational *; nIb navc thus
eacoild. As n reuuh all conuaclos were ntxisted to incur
lhcuw financial koes  and had cash flu% problm. lbc praddl
of awading caniract to the owt!u1 bnir an the Nl.rngth of
past performance and rcputmaion should be seriowsiv reviewed.
lbe tender price should be evaluated and thc experienem nad
Jamliarity of the cvatractir with the cliawtic condiion. wida thc
logtic of the projets and with the: locl conditioi, laiding
aovaibility or i  urkeus and machinesr and paus should also
be tae  into    id     .



- 26  -
Pagr? 3
2                jpyatd Igsl don
Proper  design  with  adequatc  burvey  information  .nd  soil
invation is vezY importnt for the well-bring and .niouth
inplBensitation of the construction phasb of the project. Rushing
through the dein phase withoul adequate infonnation in order
to mcet a date-line will lead to inaccurcies in desip  and
inaccuracv in the a_ tsmet of the vrious lills -of Q)uantwies in
thd  maaking  up   of thc Tcnder Document. As a dirt
coNsequcnc. it lwdb to a lot of contractual issue  wbich are
dtrinmental to the project It leads to dcbzy and to escatlion of
procct cLos. Packagt% Al. tY. 131 and fZ .arc obvious mmpls
of inadoquacies at the in4iatSion and desin stage. C-uanhitics
of ccrtain items uwr- grosly undcr-cstimnted. In th- rouic of
copnstructiozi. designs of slocs and embanlkents had to hc
.-viso wimh additional land to ki- acquired to fit. Thr;is uscd
in"vuent delay and dismupion. tnder-design of Thc ixvmcnt
,urfwce coupled with overnaMing now nrsulk in pavrmcnt di'ircss
anmd prcmaure failure.
Since the compleio  of the pro jcts. there has been an upsurpg  in
ricvultural actMties on land fronting the roads. Therm hms also hbras a
maked inase in inter-districi vehicular traffic especially during sc6&ooI
hoHday seauons. Ile completed all-weather roads certaimly provide .-a :hcjcr
atenative means of trawl between towns. The sole dependani  on ;air
tinsport within Sabah can be said to be ower. The completion  if these
ifra-szructurc has undouhledly led to more socia inteaction amxng The
communitios and bring about a clear awrrncs  of wbat gors *n in other
towns. In a sense, it helps to promote internal tourirm within The Statc. Ii
cnrlainlv goxs towards facilitating the transporn of local produce I1 the-
mActk. COne tbinS that mwst be cmphasiixd is that. hand in hand with iht
comphtion of these infraitructural fcltis theen ast also bc a conetcd
cfTort and a detcrmined will towards enforcement on ovrloading on the
roads without which the roads wiD not perform to the purpose orignally
intended.



- 27 -
PART III. 1TAzIgIL..ImBM&=



_ 28 _
Tabil I
Page 1
S_A SARAWA                    _11X             29-
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
LOAN  1TmLE                  PURPOSE  -UMAL ---s   C. .                           E;  
S.b Peh            To impo_  ft  port Scilitie to serm      1971      Comtd           PPAR No. 1244
(LN 774-MA)        t    m        tonmy of the Stat of                                 isuud 07176.
Makyan Railwy      To fian  1972-73 pid of Malaya           1972      Completed       PPAR No. 2748
Plroec             Raiwas 1971-75 DecopmI Mm                                          ised 1179.
aN 799-MA)         and equipunnt ad wodrk to
_beeuit from th us of diesel
Kaunipur           To impwvea e  to Koala Lunpur            1973      Completed       PPAR No. 2573
Urb. Th_pmt        fiomt do acet    of Peoahg                                         issmd 06/79.
(LW 851-MA)        Jy.                                                              .
Secod Higway       To impwnve ad upd the capacity of        1974      Complted        PPAk No. 573
Projc              she ealhing mum rou non tRhe Wed                                   issoed 09/84.
aL  931-MA)        cant of Mlaysia, Rout I by
co.dmcting two sections - a) IL to
Serx=lu  nd b) 1Dh  Caves to Rowe
L
Seonod 11:         To inew    efficien use of the           1976      Compltd         PPAR No. 5424
Lumpu Url          exist  ad ploed  _Pt fcilities                                     issued 01/85.
Tumpot             Ihiug policy. trac    _g
(LN 1214-MA)       uu.    and now oand construction,
and to initiate a daerp.ugr
-     aqutse mu upgrading and
aites and svies delopnuL
Tzd Highway        To suppot  Government's povey            1977      Copletd         PPAR No. 7303
Piect                         r        by p                                           issued 06/88.
CLN 13764M)    iqved _=pmf i,pmvmy
u~~~~ra unuyta
_Xd=cio  d  _iumm nSbL



- 29-
Page 2
LOAN TitE=-  PURPOSE                               , ISCAL           SrAC.lJS       COMMNT
Second Sabah Ports  To rebabilitate and expad the port    1978      Compled          PCR No. 6110
Project            faiilities at Tawra, by repairing th                              imed 03/86.
(LN 1580-MA)       exsing quy ad providng new berths
and bwkup facilities toicL Ae port
capcity. he project also simd at
developing the instiutical stength of
the Sabah Port Authority by &cussing
on operations and trining.
Port Kelag         To establish a dialogue with the       1986      Completd         PCR No. 12037
(LN 2686-MA &      govmt on improving the                                            issued 06193
LN 2687-MA)        opeatios at Port Keang specificaUy
and in the maritme sctor in Malaysia
in geneal and to construct a
convile caergena  cargo
berth at the North Port.
HYighwy            To assist te govenment to achve its    1990      P ct  d          Cblsing Date is
Rehabilitaio &     goals fir the highway sector as                  execution.       0613019S.
nmprovement        articulatd in the Fift Maaysia
(LN 3145-MA)       Development Plan. ie.. the
p reservatin and i cmvement of the
existing federal highway network so
that it can safely and adeately cater
to rapidly increasing taffic demnd.  __.__          ._. __



MALAYSIA
SABAH SARAWAK ROADS PROJECT ILOAN 2291.MA)
PROJCr COMMETION REPORT
Table 2: USE OP BANK RESOURCES
2A: Bank Stafr/Consuta Inpubs
(Staff Weeks)
PROJECT   | PRE   FY81   FY82  PY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88    Y9   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   TOTAL
CYCLE            m lY81
Praration        6.6   12.7    25.5   3.6                                                                                   48.4
Appisal                                39.4                                                                                 39.4
Negoiatlons                            4.5     =_____                                                                        4.5
LoanPmOCSing      .6    1.3      1.6   8.1                                                                                  11.6
Supervsion                                     6.8    7.3    10.6    5.8    14.2   10.7   10.5    7.5    6.0    2.5    80.6               0
Proj. CompIdion    _                              _
Total        7.1   14.0   27.1   55.6    6.8    7.3    10.6    5.8    14.2   10.7   10.5    7.5    6.0    2.7    185.8
NOTE: AU figum anro unded.
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



- 31_
TaMb 2: USE OF BANK R2SOURCES (continued
23: Bankiou
TYPE OF MISSION       OMSSON    DAYS IN         SrAPF       PERFORMNCE          MISSION
DATES   FED                              RANG            REPOTS
Fuui Meando Inl 
Project Fie
Ikdeniheadaa          02I32        19           E. HE       ___________
Prepuinuion           05182        5            E, TE
10182       30           E. HE.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ ST E.  R TA   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _
Pob*AppmsI            03/          14           E. HE
5Wi  1                01           2            TB, EN              1           03/06/4
Supezvisiom2          01/3         5            TB. HE              2           03115/85
Supervision 3         07/35        7            HE                  2           07119/85
SupervisionS          04116        7            HE                  2           061031/6
SupavuocS             0217          11          TB. HE              2           CW2687
Suevso6               11/87        14           TE. HE              2           01/06133
Supervision 7         06/3         14           TE. HE              2           07/03/33
Supevisionp           1 3=         14           HE                  2           12116/33
Surisio 9             06/3         14           HE                  2           0029
Supevision 10         10111        14           HE                  2           12101139
Suprvion 11           0910         7            TE, HE              2           lO126m90
Supervisaon 12        10/91        7            HE                  2           10/29/91
PCR                   Om_  2       7            HE                  -           06113/92
Lg: e =Bono=i tB = Tn t Eomis EN                       -  r. HE      ighw"y Egineer.
se - Saff Tning Expkt, rA - Regioal Tran  Advisor



_ 32 -
SAB&I SARtAWAK ROADS PROJECr dOAN 2291-MA)
Table 3: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section                     Subject                    'Staus
Section 3.06     The Bo arwer to ae or caue to be taen   Party complied with  Seval successfid
al ncssac y minu1_es to proibt loggng   memue hae ben take and othr a
truckeceeding te legal axle imts frm    beig prepared. Geneaslly overoadig of
using the Poect trn m ods in SabL       tucks is decdining  due to  imprved
enforcement but remains a prblm   Six
weighbridges promided uder te Third
Highway Project (LAn 1376-MA) which
had become ioperble hv  been 
opertonaL  Offender are chargd with
breakig the law. In addiio  guidelines
regarding restrictos for  e gros wight
and axle loads of vehicles  asued in
accornce with th Rcod Trnsport Act of
1997) hav made en&=inent ease.  nhe
is. however, a need to revise the law in
order to enable the use of portble
weighbridges for enfoirment.
Section 3.07     The Borrower to easure or cae to ensure   Geaeally complied witL  However, some
that the nght-of-way acquisition required for   delay due to difficulty in completing land
he Sabah rod ipovemes is completed   acquistic.
before constrction cont    awan&
Sectn  3.08       lle Borrwer to ensure the completioa of   Comnplied with.   Segma' Brdge was
contuctio of the Kinabatangan ad Segma   completee  in  August 1989  and  the
bridges by Daemuber 31, 1987.            lGnbtangan Bridge in June 1990.
Sectio 4.02 (e)    Te Bonower to mintin recods ad   Complied with, bit later tn the time frame
accon   d hawe its accounts and fincial   given.
stateme  u nd the stemet of epnditure
(SOE) audited annually and furnh to the
Bak not lae tmn nine months afker the
end of etch fiscal year, certified copis of
its financ   stments ad aud  report,
iwcudng a sepae opiio as to whether
the proceds of the Lan mad avaiable to
it ad withdrawn from the Loa Accout on
the basis of SOEB hve been used fbr the
pupoe for which tiey were povided.



-33 -
SAUA    OM       A     T(ANM-A
e~~~~"                        RE     T
CUMM112fve
FY    Semester     Apprata          Actmal     Actua as          Actual as
Ending       Esdte           Amount  % of Appraisal      % of Revised
Emate         Lo Amo n'
1984  12M1/83        1.00            .22        22.0 %            0.2%
06/30184       9.00            .22        2.4 %             0.2 %
1985  12/34         16.50            .22         1.3 %            0.2 %
06130/85      26.00            .22         0.8 %            0.2%
1986  11M/85        36.00            .22         0.6 %            0.2 %
06/30186      47.00            .22        0.5 %             0.2 %
1987  12/31/86      57.00            2.05        3.6 %            2.4 %
06/30/87      67.00            7.71       11.5 %           14.8 %
1988  12131/87      73.00           13.27       18.2 %           22.9 %
06130188      79.00           18.76       23.7 %           29.3 %
1989  12/31/88      83.00           21M         26.0 %           31.7 %
06130/89      86.22           25.63       29.7 %           36.0 %
1990  12131/89                      29.98       34.8 %           42.1%
06130/0                       33.9        39.4 %           47.7 %
1991  12/31/90                      38.08       44.2 %           53.5%
06/30/91                      50.72       58.8 %           71.2 %
1992  12/31/91                      58.19       67.5 %           81.7 %
06/30/92                      67.86       78.7 %           95.3 %
1993  12131/92                      70.49       81.8 %           100.0 %
Closing Date: 06/30/92
Fmal DiL*uemmn 10/28192
NOTE:
'Refbt. Cancefatiom oUSS15 Mil. . 1124/7 ad US$73494.82 an IWU/Q



MALAYSIA
SABAH SARAWAK BQADS PROJEClT ILOAN 2291 -MAI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table S: FINANCING PLAN - APPRAISALVS. ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
,____________    APPRAISAL                                                     ACTUAL
Agency       Local    Forelgn    Total    Share             Agency              Local    Foreign    Total    Share
Government       61.90      0.00     61.90    41.79%  Government                      54.72      0.00     54.72   43.70%
Bank Loan (Original)            0.00     86.22
Cancellatlon 1/24/87     0.00    115.00)
Cancellation 10128192    0.00    (0.73)
Bank Loan         0.00     86.22     86.22    58.21 % i3ank Loan (Finall               0.00    70.49      70.49   58.30%
Total            61.90    86.22    148.12   100.00%   otal                            54.72     70.49   125.21  100.00%
Note:
Exchange Rate used: US$1 - M42.60



tfil   z             WI   jji Z       ij^ji pf p. "                  fh HP-"PFPF        bIz  
tllltii i      II~            I 1                               . l11   Xlsttg1f1 1Xg
|~~~~ ~ |                                                         g  i    .l[     
}t "  || 0 e  ~ !     gs  sl;s   ^16Nue   | H52 l| ;|ii  1Sg 12l ¢| lSa



SARM4 SARAWAK  Amoas un@ci    lOAM  2281;A
eMOT caTUM POOIT
lVabI. 7: Dtaied Prolct Costs for Sab.h Comonant Ifftooa  Mda1alab
Fod  E d CR4 - "^ S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AdMS flo  as S d
hpdqe t | ~~~~~~~~~F |W                           Tdol        Am;            LOW             F 
1. kS                                                                                                                                            _  
a   bdoiTiwRn  Z           Z I                                               25651MBU 4hJE ! 23 _0 2_2 _ _1_._                                                 ._
tL  wd*&TdOdROMadag  23155  21717459                                                                    I..2 34   M .11@                                2man
a   ul_O Rou.Um   di      P     I                                              s7s.0 sIs                             c    o4 s                                ts
Ld tdD mu4d.an n Road PcI 92 _2s.s21.202.27  14.7 7tsm7.29                                               22.2_O           X#4.s                           120L L9
Coralmln 6 al:                    i  .ig .m.n   t.e.arom        161.f.L oo. 11i0Io.0h 5aaI30..05           o .ni     1  22J-321J..0   1. 36.12% __ ._
o M       4mm                    I  1.6ma.  I  *.200.00ao   Ij.jW.OJ3      1 4J j.Mjno  18.216.S1aol         .700.042  J1 I2.3.54 n           15.12%        15 In
,n  Roods S4wad:                 I 3AM1    O M  I0l.2aoO  coaln001I M.M.0   I51,5D4951 1o ,M14s4.Z            Eo.M 1   245,2       L        J      3. J9 124W t 0 sn
Towomefow Raw                                           10001.13~~~~~~0,57ILO10  ,405.321 32  000   10.465.321.32                       89041
la-ad d 1 s1_RoS PAM                                                       t.30.436 25   1712.602346            OW    17 .I.2&44                          W 36
fi°Rmd                                         .__1  | a20                                           _        P.IIJ 1 If  doao  1158131175            li |§ ts 
BO&Ud                          tnt_SamC    D 21.WlMQW         DODO      3I8O350D. s2005 41-924.Ma5u           oM   41.11M24              1,u6          Uis a0
u  Tmm R4f" Rod                                                              84,2U59   1,1 13.01300              00    I.18tn.as
lOW bhdiOi-edcl pRc           |2,372,57B50   23,M15153                                                          0oe     2.987153
Abn   _e m    _     _o o                      721,240,no000  2,.00000    2,M4,6924   2.1270A.2               @ol  2.160.4627             mr.41d        1020.28
T.*od.l RdhO      o                     00   30.00000 12,ol 210=00000 11 17.065.231.44@1 240.121    | 5z.Qss III           515151u0 1001ffiA                172 J,A
zcm& ,g sw*                         12406000.D    2.9CtDCO    4,1440D0=00    2,154SN,t.00|  2,826,70m.46  |       QOO   IIAIW.46  |33                       IM| 0.O
Liund Wc                             Taeo,400a     32%0=a00    4.00anoMW                |         0O co           aoeX          coot  |QOO%
. P cFt                                   000     4W.00,000     400,000  |     22.96400 1| 25.01691          107,12M     |   %aow|0      ,   156.24%       100L01
TrrdFdmt C.40.do                                5.220.CCOO    1.620.0W 00D   &JO7.e39ao   a595.eogo4       50,0 o wl-1zCI l,s- 1             5311sl        es4n
Toldtal       Cos h 'is a          91           134 I25.1,AOMQD 224L32qe0WeW  1161225176f44  244,4s5iu  A31 114181.0 I 20s2U1S,7              13 m2161      Im4a
ba: P.W.Q slh am 1Aon
V I 12.88Mt - pd              _  aWw#ftiasSA.
ii P*isiRWAT
I o If6em bdwkiasAdi u*daW Iubdw.so
Vm.ami  k       m            my m       .a



MALASVIA
sAAHI SARAWAK ROADS PROJECT . ILOAN  2221a MAI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tabds 9: Protect Imnlementatlion Schedule - Sabah Comnonant
Plefu Component                     cenltScloietswdlent _miNlaully              lid lasSeSp             CoSCC Awwd              Eaoelmng S Work          CGmn$ee  of Watt
-                                         -                                                              la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cti  P64d AW  fpeea  SteeW    I   apaed  Asked  Emspeam
I  CklW4cia
SwWdu&nvTakp  Read PacikeAl             POaewaoCeepaatlen  KtaKugw                 Oit lle    Oct 10l3    May 1056    Feb 1114    Aal 111O    Ap 1614    0.. lil.   Ot. tllo
Smdeten.TepWd Pals Pectga Al2            Oae." Caiatlen FeteI                      Oatiles      Oct 1113    May logl    Feb 1114    PLQ 1tl        Aft 114      Jon sues    hea tul
LtadaatuluidabmnRed Ptaeltt it    ChdesyaPmammn&S*ldJ sm               ne          Oct ill      Oct tES3    MayII1$.   Feb 1114    Aaq 1llS        Apr 1114    Tutnud    OnU S?J2
Lee  f. Ent. Sin  Sld. JV OdadyVal
tahadOetu.luaienmRed PachaltP     n     u(M CapwatldnlR.  JyaJstl1                Ac 1til        NA         Dec BuJ0      NA        Jot tIol       NIA       Saue 1t9i        WA
Litad OaewSuidehm Reed P waca  SI        HHeaddIHawbu a ntweatS Dev. Ce.           ot less    Oct 1til      May 1196    Fab 1114    AM 1@06    AP 1134    Ac 1i0               nt 1Il?
LtU. PantI
TowelMlamcidR                             CtReadPtiba                              Jnt IllS    Jth 1114      Oct tIoS     Oct 1114    New Iola 0S   1014        Fob llSS    On tlls
iNM Gusty Sin. EM. * IV PdtEGawSwi
tahed OcateSakpit RIad                   Odt tlthawe tlMIdn. ht. plSadtail         Imp till    Oct tI 2      J IS Aoop     lAt Ill 4E       lSoll  Jun aISs    Jon tI*J     Jun I 1a
olen"eeh need                            Aheomr clienhlttlwst3. ISalSen n          On ligo      id tIl       lab IllJ    Dec tllg    May 065?    Feb tlea       Jtn tilt    Oec lo?l
2   luimint Ted. mid MmG i.
VuIe.a LnSSh. ole.Pddedrti                sotp tlns      WA        Ocet 1leS       NA        Dm_ 3          N/WA      hllOc           NIA
i, ldle & Tecfcd Aiseietsnce
t Stiedbhpw     Traean*           KIenwtav Int idNlWM leN                     AM tlos       tISS        D ScIloo     Oct 11SJ    Jn ISle      Jmn 1I14    Ntow          D Dee Ila?
hi maclden with le*Seu Sella Paeed*n
Sa SW. SM, PSlay
t1 lnw. Dae lea AV. Aem  Read.   JSaiNs K~tatflMenaeeNw  NtanpiV                  .            .       ApSep El   JSn 114    Aq tIlJ   JSn 1014    Juat tIl            ON tIll
tl  Swbn                      G~~~~~~CCS Sin Slid. Pddeydautit
te. lewmevl.knesof BW.rAayom
tI Tre*Raede:                       MktNtit,t ifstS. fIddywool                 JuS tlls    Sep 1tES  JeA lo           Jone 1ti4    Sep tisl     pt 1144    Isa. tIll    Mw 1tl
laSa&kn.Tahle  Need At & Al      hi Gmededan with Palte rFemS   temnean_
erSudetnrt. Octal Reed St &2 El LW. nitkAN .no atsLitane  teimpon IATI
2I  ApecLusAe Seem  Sedmi           S. 11.  iditrd
T     Marsl Octlt eteild         Swew ssn     eut NMAI Sdn.6iC.UhJdeatil    Oct 66 J                  N til       eCt 1J44    ew  I ti   sDe 1354    Ac 1tl l    Sm  SO?
Lelted Oattetulst Read           KastpwdeseN eni OATeT SI  GIMalsay          OctJ4 t.1               lab itS?    Maiy lv        Sqtoll    Jut tIlls    APe tlt         d lSi?
le$Nlangeh eesd                  OCS Sin. 15. SIMauarelvI                   Dec tless                 Mm JeS?    Clom11416,   May66 loo      aFb tEEs    AO tlt       J  teis
clownmAearaUetmMIpAdSR    trtmaIofP*AM       NSA          NSA          NSA          WA        An tIsla    JtEINS    Oatilto    Vntloo
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _r         m_ Deweleennar  Sarna tl
SWAMI ~ ~     ~      ~      ~       e VMS"Z     -h 
beam   W                                                                                                                                                         -
mum s
Cdtte  esnt4  mmm
11 F. memiididuid



MALAYSIA
SABAH SARAWAK ROADS PROJECT iLOAN 2291-MAM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - SARAWAK COMPONENT
Project Component             Contractor/Consultant             Beginning of Work              Completion of Work
and Nationality            Plinned          Actual        Planned         Actual
_I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                             - n _ - |   -- - -
Sarawak SPWD Tralnino
Stage 1: Prep. Seivices     Foreign & Local Joint Venture /1     Jan 1984        Jan 1987       Dec 1984        Nov 1987
Construction of Training Center Perunding Utama (Malaysian)      Jan 1984        Sept 1988       Dec 1985       Mar 1990
Recrit Local Instructors /2                                      Jan 1985          N/A          Dec 1985          N/A       w
Fellowships                                                      Jun 1985        Jun 1988       Dec 1987        Dec 1988
Procurement of Equipment    Vartous local and forelgn sources    Mar 1983        Sept 1987       Dec 1985       Jun 1992
Stage 2: Tralning Services  Foreign & Local Joint Venture /1     Jan 1985        Jan 1988        Dec 1987       Dec 1992
Sarawak Road Maintenance
Consultant Services         Forelgn & Local Joint Venture /1     Jun 1984        Jun 1987        Jun 1987       Jun 1990
Buildings & Land Development Jee Sung Shin Construction and      Jan 1984        Sept 1991       Dec 1985       Jun 1992
Hap Lick Constructilon (Malayslan)
Procurement of Equipment    Varlous local and foreign sources    Sept 1984       Sept 1987       Jun 1986       Jun 1992
Saurce: SPWD Sarawak
NOTES:
It DorschConsult (German) In assoclallon vth Delauw Cather Intemaaional Ltd. (U.S.) and Perunding Utama (Malayslan)
21 Nat Implemented



- 39 -
Tag 10
SABAHI SARAWAK ROADS PROI aSOAN 2291-MA)
- R0r CObMPLE=7N RPR
lable 10: STUDJES AND TRAINING
Studies- 
Sabah-Sarawa_ _ Rad Ta=rt Review Including FeaibUit Studies on Pdority Proe=  in
.   ak  The review was completed in April 1989. The study identfied seven upgrading
projects tauling 294 km with the estmated com of MS3M2 milion (USS112 mion). These
pmjects were funmd to be eoomialy justified with ElRs ranging between 15 and 36 peret
National    Stody:The study was completed in March 1988 and defined principal action and
policy recommdas.   The plans included a sector-wide privatiatio  firawork,
recommendations for port financial practices and policies, and the roles of specific ports in the
developm    of an ovenal trsport network
This component was successfully completed durngthe period of Jamnary 1988 hruwgh November
1990.
Trafinin Criteion       Staff Appraisal R-eport       Actual
Total Professimal Inpt   180 man months               136 man monts (106 expatriate, 30
local)
Courses to be Develpd  a) Engmeeing                   Course Suiect         of  urses
by the Consultant       b) Mechaics                   Civil trades                  11
c) Equipmet operation         Mlechanical trdes            17
d) Stordekeping               Capetry                       3
Dr iversOperators             6
AdminstrAton                  2
I____________  _________________  Storekeper course                                  1
Number of Trainees      500 per amnm over 3 years of  375 auended for periods ranging
Attending               implemeation                  from 4-13 weels.
Overseas Fellowships    1S (10 Instctors, 5           22 (18 Bank-financed, 4 sponsored
_ Prfssional Staff)           by Danish Government)



- 40 -
Table 10
Page 2
Sk
This component was successfilly completed during the period of December 1986 though June
1990. A Training Ceer was built in Kuching and two Maintenance Depots were comucted
in Sibu and Samarahar, respecdvely.
Training Criterion     Staff Appraisal Report       Actual
Total Professional lIput   249 man moths            253 man months
Couse Areas to be      a) Road Maitane              a) 21 coutes
Developed by the         Management
Consulnt               b) Road Maintenance Work     b) & c) coures at TPUs: 394
Methods                         people trained for a total of
c) Equipment Operation            15.760 trainee days.
d) Mechanical Skills         d) 27 courses
e) Road Construction         e) 12 coutses
Tecqes
t) Maagement                 t) 6 courses
J_____________  g)Accounting                         g)2 cours
Number of Trainees     600 per amnm capability      1,556
11Attending            ._______________________________
Trainee Days           14,755                       27,475
Source: SPWD Sabah and SPWD Sarawak, SAR



MALAVOI
EAHAII SARAWAK ROAD  PROJECT * ILOAN  2291.6MA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Hictiwaw C"nitol and Maintenance Exnanditures
(MO MiMonI
11T5.   ism          io        1           919      1160      1961      1602       165       14        IM6       1M        1161       16        1M60                 I        I
tas^
lnx*RGG                   34.33      30.21     44.30    101s5       lose    10561       me65     16o        6345      49 21      64.15      351    105,36      1         64.15    1416?    INS4         7042
ReuAI Roo                            .         .    I     .           41     A4 1S30 4f l.e                                      .       . *         .         .         .          .         .
bAW                     343 31       2         .30 V  U3D re51   902e      1101      105.10    13f.10     n 6w      52 37     * 4.7s              _as       _40        U4.ts    1416      13-1       7
F       4, R     RWS       lOl1      446      11.33     22S4      J1E51      s300       164 4nu   U         o062    2xx         13S      It3S       116.4      MW       *3.n      u41  1nf             saSA
01iiCPueuRsds               53$4      4.11      tUX       083       10.24     365?      26.4      6s00       0.1       3.36       3.27      1.n2      23        1.7      11.41     1452      111t4      10.10
mRowf                  a9   n  a.U  r.7 a* ss                                   1  3Sm   44.0D. 4n2   35n25    x 0S                              a          .10  le  n           S2    n               u1' so22
_t                        _226t         IL  1.j              40AS,f   Gs Al   12113   _ _             9.00      51.9        UZ26     40ArS     4S49      34.87     6134      _3       tS2t        .48    11         I
TGtdel                 566?       5113      11017    14064    159.44    2314 0   256          226.10    1311?    t17.3      10403    12000    140.25    121.22    14050    304.70    212 1e34 o-
Mahtiuuse  Eu.dhe
ROdW 1WkilSE                 116       2240      216       3.06       326 ?     3624      43 45     52.00     42.33     530s oe              61s0      $616.15   739.?     1.15    I3         11524    11352
S           DwWffbod   Rha,I   fld       oM         .401    24         4.27  1 MS           91         00      J 2       4fall *               2381    f     i    I4jJ1    1.J          f       3191    01
"ah  Total                6l16       20        27.16      30611   3.4         41 U      53I N     57.00     45.62     61.11      61.N      U40       705       106      111311   I'd6        11642    I14.1
.lnaTRnAls126I                       1406      1.13      1123       ItS9      24.1       7.300    3712      3640      3696      60.50    10140       1s53      67.33     US"      lIsAG    IOnc        1160
Fros"ROS RD..i4l                      301      .J     .. ... i                                     8A4M      . 3         50i    lJoP       J3o    1.70.    3..        .                      2.02   ---U2
SAW              Q         1427      11L14            __H.|         2 g9      340 CH     e        4552        l       sa 44.40    1 *60I  11220la° ADO           l S       .        0       0 s t4etO  2N.
feedReld                    1.42      4.01      466       1s16       16       10760     1200      ItS5       llS5     2460       36.10     356       3t.40     520       4460      6400       "3so    16 30
Rut Reods                 J.j .                .t y  11so                                                                                                l 2ss            sl 2..4fl    s4a o              .j9
sakw                              A         4H 40l 4 so          116 13l11  4        2          sm   Itm4  -a-    as9  __m   an- L -L                                   fl               J           14W
Total           - _ s.e6         2121      26.7?     36.74     37.20     5251      6630      di0?       53U1."= 1.63    1360          151.39    1n.n2      In       I 0    2026    236.40    32560
_~~~~~~~~~~~~57                                                                                    144    -1.234    i 1                                          16        30a it
Ieawdk Taot                 254       261.01     43        52.27     4114      6452      7941      n151      60.36     6as 1    15951    16176    161.   1wlESI  13150    24637 2t620    36411
ITOTAL                               44441      00  I     2 .11 1 US4         6606     10631    13265    134.1  12.00 I    151.02    224            211   231.3 1    MI31    4046 nl                              46s
tl M           ,1_t461^  11armkLWfNAfoMRp(
an 1 r sea nw 'mnnsm
molt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MALAYSIA
SABAH SARAWAK ROADS PROJECT (LOAN 2291 -MAI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 12: DIESEL AND GASOLINE PRlCES (1975-19921
Diesel                            Ga soline
Effective Date of Price                              Premium                 Rslar
per gallon   per liter  per gallori  per liter    per gallon    per liter
.                 ~~~~~~~(M$)  (M cents)    (M$)     (M $)        (MS)        (M S)
Before February 1976      1.00                   3.10                   2.65
February 1976             1.18                   3.38        .          3.00          .
une 1979                 1.20          -        3.48         -          3.10         -
August 1979               1.30        28.6       3.69       0.81        3.35         0.74
pril 1980                1.62        35.6       4.04       0.89        3.82        0.84
August 1980               1.80        39.6       4.63      11.02        4.40         0,97
August 1985                           53.58        -                   _
September 1986                        45.50                   -              .
September 1989                        50.58                 1.00          .         0.94
June 1991                    ,        65.18                 1.11                     1.06
pril 1 992                          65.18                  1.11          .          1.06
June 1992      ~      __              65.18               _ 1.11          -          1.06
Sourcs: 1965-1992 Pdc.- Shell Marketing Sdn. Bhd.,Sabah. June 1993.
1975-1980 Prices - Staff Appraisal Report, Highwy Planning Unit, Miniaty of Wofks and UtliHts



MALAYSA
SABAH SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT . (LOAN 2291-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 13: ACTUAL TRAFFIC VOLUMES
IVehicles/Day)
Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT)          Traffic Growth Rate(%
_    _    l                       |~~~~~~~~~ Forecas:, 1992-2002)
1985. 186 1987 198811989 19901|1991 Actual (1985-1991)11985 - 1994111995 - 2002
ReconstrUcted Rgads
Sandakan-Tolupid Road /1     541   -   620  543   .   488 1100               17.22%     12.50%      7.50%
Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road /2  633   -   725  774          850  888             6.70%     12.50%      7.50%
Tawau-Merotail Road /3      2141   -    -  2169         2913 3113             7.56%      .
Lahad Datu-Bakapit Road /4    647   -   874 1036        1453   -             24.90%      -
Sapi-Nangoh Road /5          _-    -    -                    -           -
8oura P.W.D. 8abah
NOTES:
I1 Biimn JundUon (Ta(up4d Og). Unk AIOI
2V Mi 32 Junc$on (Lahad Datu kg). Unk B201
31 Nolbh Road Jundcon (Mhrotal og)
41 Mle 10 fum Lahad Datu
U NotAvuubloe. Trmffleswu nol carld otL



MALAYSIA
SABAH SARAWAK ROADS PROJEC:T (LOAN 2291-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 14: VEHICLE OPERATING COST SAVINGS
IM$ Rinogit)
A. Sandakan - Telupid Road
Vehicle Operating Coats                  VOC Savings
Vehicle Type                 Without ProJect   SAR Estimate     Actual      SAR Estimate    Actual
Private Car                      0R16           0.359           0.249          0.257        0.367
Pickup                           0.942          0.617           0.525          0.325        0.417
Jeep                             1.164          0.636           0.525          0.428        0.639
I Medium Truck z_1.543                          0.996           0.709       _ 0.547         0.734
S. Lahad Datu - Sandakan Road              _
.I.   .    _   _  Vehicle Operating Coa ts             VOC Savinas
Vehicle Type                Without Project    SAR Estimate     Actual      SAR Estimate    Actual
Private Car                      0.597          0.367           0.249         0.240         0.348
Pickup                           0.879          0.615           0.525         0.264         0.354
Jeep                             1,093          0.635           0.525          0.458        0.568
iMedium Truck              1    1.496           0.97 1          0.709         0.525         0.787



