Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4296-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH - SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
May 9, 1983
Transportation Division 2
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                    Ringgit (M$)
US$1.000                         M$ 2.30
M$ 1.00                   =      US 0.43
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 foot (ft)               =      03048 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)               =      1.6094 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)            2.59 square kilometers (sq km)
2.204 lbs                 =      I metric ton (m ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT       =  Average Daily Traffic
EPU       =  Federal Economic Planning Unit
ERR       =  Economic Rate cf Return
FELDA     =  Federal Land Development Authority
FPWD         Federal Public llorks Department
FMP       =  Fourth Malaysia Plan
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Product
LNG           Liquified Natural Cas
I4AS      =  Malaysian Airlines System
MRCU      =  Mechanized Road Construction Unit
PM        =  Peninsular Malaysia
SAFODA    =  Sabah Forest Development Authority
SLDB      =  Sabah Land Development Board
STOL      =  Short Take-Off and Landing Aircraft
SDO       =  State Development Office
SEPU      =  State Economic Planning Unit
SPWD      =  State Public Works Department
vpd       =  Vehicles Per Day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA: SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    1
(A)  Geographic and Economic Setting . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
(B)  The Transport System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
(C)  Transport Planning and Coordination . . . . . . . . . .    5
(D)  Previous Bank-Financed Projects . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
(A)  Road Network  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
(B)  Administration, Staffing and Training . . . . . . . . .   7
(C)  Planning and Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
(D)  Design and Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
(E) Maintenance .12
III. THE PROJECT.. .    ......  14
(A)  Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
(B) Description. .  .    ......  14
(C)  Cost Estimates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
(D) Financing .22
(E)  Implementation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
(F)  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
(G) Disbursements .23
(H) Accounts and Audits .24
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
(A)  The Sandakan-Telupid Road . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
(B)  The Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
(C)  Agricultural Access Roads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
(D) Risks .28
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .   30
This report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission consisting
of Messrs. B.P. Coukis (Economist), W. Sikorski (Engineer-Consultant),
H. Beenhakker (Regional Transport Advisor) and J.M. Verdier (Training
Specialist) which visited Malaysia in September 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
1. Project Implementation Schedule
2. Documents in the Project File
SUPPORTING TABLES
1.  Sabah:  Highway Capital and Maintenance Expenditures
2. Sarawak: Highway Capital and Maintenance Expenditures
3.  Sabah Road Design Standards
4. Sarawak Road Standards
5. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
6. Sandakan-Telupid Road: Traffic Forecast 1980-2005
7. Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road: Traffic Forecast 1980-2005
8. Road Improvements: Net Benefit Streams
9. Sandakan-Telupid Road: Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates
10. Sandakan-Telupid Road: Total Maintenance Cost Savings, 1983-2005
11. Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road: Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates
12. Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road: Total Maintenance Cost Savings, 1983-2005
13. Estimated Revenue from Road User Charges, 1977-1981
14. Diesel and Petrol Prices, 1975-1980
CHARTS
1. Sabah SPWD: Organization
2. Sarawak SPWD: Organization
MAP
IBRD 16938: Sabah-Sarawak Road Project



INTRODUCTION
The Government of Malaysia has requested Bank Group assistance for
the improvement of road infrastructure in the States of Sabah and Sarawak.
The proposed project would assist the upgrading of rural trunk roads and the
expansion of the agricultural road system in Sabah; support staff training
in the Sabah and Sarawak Public Works Departments; help establish a road
maintenance organization in Sarawak; and, through feasibility studies, help
identify economically justified road improvements. In addition, the project
would include a port development study covering the whole of Malaysia.
The project was prepared by the Federal Economic Planning Unit and
by the State Governments of Sabah and Sarawak. A pre-appraisal mission
visited Malaysia in February 1982 and this report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. B. P. Coukis (Economist), W.
Sikorski (Engineer-Consultant), H. Beenhakker (Regional Transport Advisor)
and J. M. Verdier (Training Specialist) which visited Malaysia in September
1982.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01      The Federation of Malaysia consists of 13 states with a land
surface of 337,000 sq km and a population of about 13 million. Eleven
states are on the Malay Peninsula (135,000 sq km). The states of Sabah and
Sarawak are on the island of Borneo and separated from the Peninsula by
650 km of the South,China Sea.
1.02       Sabah and Sarawak have about 60% of the total surface of Malaysia,
with Sarawak approximately twice as large as Sabah. Most of the production
comes from exploitation of natural resources (timber, oil, gas), about 60%
of the labor force is engaged in agriculture, and both states show large
imports of food and manufactured products. The industrial sector is
relatively undeveloped, and especially so if compared with Peninsular
Malaysia (PM). Both states have considerable agroindustrial potential whose
development is constrained by shortage of skilled and experienced staff and
by poor road communications. The completion of an all-weather road system
and a network of feeder roads penetrating into the rural areas is a pressing
need for both Sabah and Sarawak.
Sabah
1.03      The State of Sabah (Map IBRD 16938) has an area of about 74,000
sq km and a strongly indented coastline with many natural harbors. The



- 2 -
climate is hot and humid, rainfall is between 1,800 and 3,800 mm with the
heaviest precipitation between November and March.  Total 1982 poputlation is
about 1.1 million (from 653,000 in the 1970 census), has been growing at
about 5% p.a. over the past ten years, and includes immigrants from
Indonesia and the Philippines. District centers are generally small and
only Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan and Tawau are towns of any importance. The
interior comprises highlands with summits from 300 to 1,000 m which, to the
east, grade down to rolling terrain in the lower reaches of the main
navigable rivers. To the west, the highlands are abruptly bordered by
mountain ranges extending north-northeast throughout the state, and creating
major obstacles in east-west highway communications.
1.04       Most of the land surface is mountainous and covered with dense
forests. Until recently, the state economy relied primarily on forestry and
logging but the importance of oil and copper is growing. Total value of
exports has increased from M$534 million in 1970 to M$4,474 million in 1980.
The corresponding va:Lues for imports were M499 and M$3,061 million.  From
1970 to 1980, gross domestic product (GDP) per capita increased from M$1,286
to M$2,023 and is expected to continue growing by about 3-4%' in real terms.
Government wishes to increase agricultural output by planting oil palm and
cocoa and by extending assistance to rice farmers so as to bring down the
food import bill which, in 1980, reached M$353 million or 12% of imports.
Statistics are lacking but there is a serious income disparity between the
export-related activities and the subsistence sector which employs the bulk
of the rural population. Labor shortages may cause continuing immigration
from the Philippines and Indonesia.
Sarawak
1.05       The State of Sarawak (Map IBRD 16938) has an area of about 128,000
sq km and a 1982 population of about 1.4 million. In the south and east it
borders Kalimantan and in the north it surrounds the Sultanate of Brunei.
In the northeast it borders Sabah but there is no paved road connection
between the two Malaysian States. The climate is hot and wet: temperatures
are between 220 and 320C and rainfall between 3,000 and 4,000 mm.
Kuching, Sibu and Miri are the only large towns: almost 75% of the popula-
tion lives in dispersed farm settlements or small villages with less than
1,000 population. The densest rural population concentrations are in west
and central Sarawak.
1.06       Sarawak comprises a high interior zone grading down to a swamp
plain that backs the coast. The plateaus in the interior have summits
between 1,200 and 2,400 m and intervening valleys are narrow even when they
contain major rivers. The coastal plain comprises deep peat swamps with
little potential for settlement or agriculture. The swamp plain has greatly
affected road communications: less than 100 miles of the coastal area is
backed closely by hills. The main rivers drain west and north, are commonly
free of rapids and have long provided the main lines of communication.



-3-
1.07       Sarawak exports petroleum, timber, rubber and pepper and imports
food, beverages, chemicals, manufactured goods, machinery and transport
equipment. The balance of trade has been positive since 1970 with surpluses
of M$11 million and M$1,743 million for 1970 and 1980, respectively.
Detailed statistics on domestic product and income are lacking but the
available material suggests that GDP has increased from M$911 million in
1971 to about M$1,273 million in 1980. As in Sabah, there is a significant
income disparity between the modern and the subsistence sectors. The
Government is keen to promote rural development and to improve the quality
of life in the hinterland but difficulty of access and lack of experienced
staff hinder planning and implementation of development schemes. Poor
communications are a major constraint to supplying adequate services and
facilities to areas where living standards are low.
B. The Transport System
Road Transport
1.08       Details on the road sector in Sabah and Sarawak are given in
Chapter II.
1.09       Between 1970 and 1981 the Sabah motor vehicle fleet grew from
35,000 to 136,000 and, at present, motorcycles represent 8%, cars 51% and
trucks 23% of the total. Most of the fleet is based in major towns on the
west and east coasts and its rapid growth caused correspondingly rapid
traffic volumes which, in 1981, exceeded 1,000 vehicles per day on several
rural trunk road segments. Traffic counts are carried out at selected
points once or twice a year and show that trunk roads generally register
more than 500 ADT; furthermore, it has been observed that when a road was
upgraded to bitumen standard there is an upward surge of traffic reflecting
pent-up demand. Public transport of passengers and goods is regulated by
the Sabah Road Transport Authority. Bus licenses cover routes and maximum
fares. Licenses for transport of goods regulate service regions and routes
but not freight rates. The road traffic ordinance allows a maximum 9 ton
single axle and 15 ton tandem axle load. Government has strengthened
control of vehicle weight by installing at selected points of the road
network 5 permanent weighing stations under the ongoing Third Highway
Project.
1.10       In Sarawak, the motor vehicle fleet grew from 68,000 in 1976 to
128,000 in 1981. ADT near the main towns (Kuching, Sibu, Bintulu, Miri) is
reaching several thousand vehicles, thinning out to between 200 and 600 on
rural sections of trunk roads. Traffic counts are made at selected points
once or twice a year and annual traffic growth in recent years was between
10% and 16%. The Sarawak Land Transport Department is responsible for
licensing vehicles and issuing traffic regulations. The March 1982 ordinance
permits maximum single-axle load of 9 tons and tandem axle of 14 tons, with



-4-
a maximum weight of 14 tons for 2-axle vehicles and 19 tons for 3-axle
vehicles. Overloading is frequent, particularly of logging trucks, but
control of vehicle weight is only by sporadic police campaigns.
Railways
1.11      Sarawak has no railways.  The Sabah State Railway (96 miles) runs
from Kota Kinabalu southwards to Beaufort and turns into the Crocker Range
to reach Tenom. This was the first all-weather land transport facility to
be built in the State but in recent years road transport has been competing
and railroad traffic has decreased from 93,000 tons in 1975 to 51,000 tons
in 1980. Passenger traffic increased from 775,000 journeys in 1975 to just
over 1 million in 1980 and currently contributes about two thirds of the
railway revenues. Nevertheless, the railway has been in deficit over the
past few years, averaging about M$2 million p.a. The recent completion of a
paved road from Kota Kinabalu to Papar and Beaufort offers a better service
and may be expected further to diminish railroad traffic. The Government
has phased out railway passenger service between Kota Kinabalu and Beaufort
as of March 1, 1983. However, railway service provides the only all-weather
access from Beaufort to the logging areas around Tenom and this should
continue because the difficult terrain between the Pegalan Valley and the
west coast makes any road connection extremely expensive.
Maritime Transport
1.12      Both in Sabah and in Sarawak, the shortcomings of the all-weather
road network explain the numerous ports and anchorages serving coastal and
riverine traffic. When the trunk road network has been completed, port
activity will most likely concentrate in Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan, Tawau,
Labuan and Sapangar Bay (for Sabah) and in Kuching, Miri, Sibu and Bintulu
(for Sarawak). Sabah ports handled a total of 600,000 tons in 1970 and
2.8 million tons in 1980 for an average annual increase of 16.6%. In
Sarawak, the growth rate was lower (6.1%) and the 1970 and 1980 traffic
figures were 1.6 million and 2.9 million respectively. Between 1970 and
1980 coastal trade between PM and Sabah/Sarawak increased from 800,000 to
1.4 million tons. Major ports are adequately serviced by international
shipping companies while a large fleet of domestically-owned vessels services
the smaller ports and anchorages.
1.13      In Sabah, the expansion programs of Kota Kinabalu and Sandakan
ports were completed in 1976 and 1977 respectively: the handling capacity
of the former was increased from 311,000 tons to 953,000 tons and of the
latter from 335,000 to 624,000 tons. In Sarawak, construction of the new
port in Bintulu started in 1979 to cater for both general and bulk cargo
traffic as well as for handling of liquified natural gas (LNG), ammonia and
urea. The expansion of Kuching port was completed in 1975 and increased
capacity from 300,000 to 650,000 tons. Sibu port capacity was also expanded
by 1977 from 175,000 tons to 450,000 tons.



-5 -
1.14       Projections in the Fourth Malaysia Plan (FMP) show that over the
1981-85 period total cargo in Sabah is expected to increase from 2.8 million
to 4.9 million tons and in Sarawak from 2.9 million to 6.5 million tons. In
Sabah, the construction of an industrial jetty complex in Sepangar Bay and
the expansion of Tawau port are scheduled for completion in 1983. Addi-
tional works will further expand the capacity of Kota Kinabalu and Sandakan
ports from 900,000 to 2.5 million tons and from 600,000 to 1.2 million tons
respectively. In Sarawak, work has been completed on the new port in
Bintulu which handles in 1983, an initial throughput of 1.7 million tons
subsequently to be expanded to 6 million metric tons annually.  The port of
Kuching will also be expanded by 1985 at which time capacity will have
increased from 650,000 to 1.3 million tons. Port improvements have been
made throughout Malaysia over the past few years and the need for more is
envisaged. The time is ripe to consider port needs for the country as a
whole and to examine port investments in conjunction with measures to
improve efficiency in harbor operations.
Air Transport
1.15       Air transport volumes increased dramatically in Sabah and Sarawak
between 1970 and 1980 although not by as much as in PM. In the late 1970s,
extension of the Kota Kinabalu International Airport was completed, enabling
it to receive wide-bodied aircraft, while improvement works were carried out
on the Kuching International Airport, and the airports of Sandakan, Miri and
Bintulu. The Malaysian Airline System (MAS) offers daily services among
Kuala Lumpur, Kota Kinabalu and Kuching while foreign carriers operate
direct routes between Sabah, Sarawak, Singapore, Manila and Hong Kong. MAS
continued to give priority to internal air services in Sabah and Sarawak
with the number of airports served increasing from 17 in 1972 to 25 in 1980.
1.16       During the 1981-85 period, air passenger and air cargo traffic are
expected to increase by 10% and 15% respectively. In Sabah, improvement
of Tawau airport was completed in 1981 while the expansion of Sandakan
airport is underway to cater for medium-range aircraft, and further improve-
ments to the Kota Kinabalu airport are to be completed in 1984. In Sarawak,
new airports, catering for short and mediumr-range aircraft, are to be
constructed at Sibu, Bintulu and Limbang. The expansion of the Kuching
International Airport, including the construction of a new terminal build-
ing, cargo complex and other ancillary facilities, is scheduled for comple-
tion in 1983. Rural air services in Sabah and Sarawak will be expanded by
providing more rural airfields and by introducing bigger short take-off and
landing (STOL) aircraft.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.17    Ir. both Sabah and Sarawak, the State Economic Planning Unit (SEPU)
and the State Development Office (SDO) have been integrated into a State



-6-
Office of Development in the Chief Minister's Department. The large
expansion of public sector development programs in the 1970s imposed heavy
strains, not yet relieved, on planning and implementation capacity. The
Sabah and Sarawak state government structure provides an adequate framework
for policy formulation, coordination of subsectors, and preparation and
implementation of multisectoral programs. Full use is not being made of
this potential because operating ministries lack adequately staffed planning
and implementation units and SDO's do not have enough personnel to make up
for these shortages.
1.18      In both Sabah and Sarawak, highway planning was, until recently,
quite limited because the ministries concerned proceeded more or less on
their own. Roads were built where needed and, subject to the funds avail-
able, maximum lengths were the objective, rather than careful selection of
economically justified links constructed to sound standards. For a long
time, maintenance of existing facilities received a much lower priority than
construction. As a result, many roads became impassable during the rainy
season and others required heavy repairs shortly after construction was
completed. Over the last few years, the SEPUs and the State Public Works
Departments (SPWDs) in both States have become aware of the importance of
maintenance and of the fact that planning and intersectoral coordination
have tangible benefits. However, maintenance organizations are only now
being established and trained personnel is lacking.
D. Previous Bank-Financed Projects
1.19      This would be the eighth Bank-financed transportation project in
Malaysia, the fourth in Sabah, and the first in Sarawak. The First Port
Project in Sabah (Loan 774-MA of US$16.1 million in 1971); the Railway Proj-
ect (Loan 799-MA of US$16.0 million in 1971); the First Highway Project
(Loan 851-MA of US$16.0 million in 1972); the Second Highway Project (Loan
931-MA of US$19.5 million in 1974); and the Urban Transport Project for
Kuala Lumpur (Loan 1214-MA of US$26.0 million in 1976) have all been
completed albeit with delays due to contractors mobilization difficulties,
late ordering and receipt of materials, project management problems, late
issue of permits and licenses, land acquisition difficulties, and removal of
squatters from right-of-way. The Third Highway Project (Loan 1376-MA of
US$35.0 million in 1977) is virtually completed except for one section on
the East Coast Road in Sabah where the contractor experienced severe
financial problems. After substantial delays he has secured additional
financing and completion is expected in mid-1984, about 30 months behind
schedule. The Bank has agreed to a 2-year extension of the closing date to
June 30, 1984. All other components have been satisfactorily completed.
The Second Sabah Port Project (Loan 1580-MA of US$13.0 million in 1978) has
been virtually completed but is about 14 months behind schedule, due to



- 7 -
delays during the early stages of design and construction. The closing date
was extended to June 30, 1983 but the overall project cost remains within
appraisal estimates.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Road Network
2.01       In Sabah, the classified road network comprises 5,370 km, of which
1,660 km or 31% are bitumen paved and the remaining gravelled. Road density
is 0.07 km per sq km. These indicators are inferior to those of PM where
86% of classified roads are paved and road density is 0.13 km per sq km.
Roads are subdivided into trunk and feeder, 1,760 km and 3,610 km,
respectively. There is also considerable mileage of private access roads to
logging areas and plantations. Road condition is generally poor, mainly
because roads were built to lower standards than those required by current
traffic volumes and composition. Although substantial road improvements
have been made in recent years, much remains to be done. The emphasis is
now on upgrading the existing roads, on building new roads to adequate
standards and on maintenance.
2.02       In Sarawak, development of the road network has lagged behind that
of Sabah and PM. In 1982 the total length of classified roads was 3,170 km,
of which 807 km were bitumen paved, 2,255 km gravelled and 108 km earth
roads. Paved roads represent 25% of the total length and road density is
0.025 km per sq km. Prior to 1958 there were only 130 km of roads located
around larger towns and transport of passengers and goods was by river and
coastal shipping.  Roads are divided into trunk (970 km), feeder (1,340 km),
and rural (860 km). In addition to the classified network there are private
roads and logging tracks some of which will in future be incorporated into
the state network. The first trunk road system joining Kuching with Sibu,
Bintulu and Miri was completed in 1982. The Government aims to build the
second trunk road system situated more inland, to provide access to several
isolated areas, and to connect with the Sabah network through Limbang and
Lawas.
B. Administration, Staffing and Training
Sabah
2.03       The State Public Works Department (SPWD) of the Ministry of
Infrastructure Development is responsible for planning, design, construc-
tion, maintenance. and administration of the highway network, construction
and maintenance of airfields, some ports, government building, drainage,



- 8 -
water supply and sewage disposal. SPWD field organization comprises
divisions, districts and construction teams (Chart 1). The Assistant
Director in charge of the Road Branch supervises all matters related to the
highway network. At the headquarters level, Road Branch includes sections
for planning, design, major projects and maintenance.  The Mechanical
Branch, responsible for equipment, operates on a commercial accounting
basis, charging rates allowing for equipment depreciation. The Mechanical
Branch includes planning and control units, accounts, central workshop and
store, divisional, district and project unit workshops and a quarry section.
A computerized vehicle and equipment management system is now being put in
place.
2.04      The Road Branch has a total staff of about 3,300: this includes
some 100 engineers and technicians, 200 foremen and overseers, 300 adminis-
trative and clerica:L staff, 1,200 skilled and semi-skilled personnel and
about 1,500 laborers. The road maintenance unit employs about 1,900 staff:
about 15 engineers and technicians, 100 foremen and overseers, 400 operators
and drivers, 235 administrative and other skilled personnel and 1,150
laborers. To maintain and repair the SPWD fleet of 2,280 major items (560
vehicles, 740 trucks, 750 earthmoving equipment, and 230 pavers, hot mix
plant, stone crushers and other ancillary plant), the Mechanical Branch
employs a total of about 1,100 persons: about 10 engineers, 40 technicians,
130 foremen and senior tradesmen, 150 tradesmen and 620 administrative and
other skilled and semiskilled personnel and 150 laborers. Since 1975 the
growth of SPWD personnel was about 15% per year which was indispensable in
terms of numbers but left much to be desired in terms of skills.
2.05 *   Recruitment of skilled and experienced personnel is hampered by
state-wide labor shortages and relatively low salaries. Professional posts
are usually filled by newly graduated engineers. Practically all supervisor
posts have been filled by young school-leavers or older, experienced but
poorly educated laborers and tradesmen. For vehicle and equipment mainte-
nance, repair and operation, SPWD has to recruit trade assistants and
apprentices and to train them on the job. Under the Third Highway Project,
consultants entrusted with the organization of road maintenance have provided
substantial assistance to the SPWD training center, preparing manpower fore-
casts, new personnel schemes of service for internal promotion purposes, and
training materials.  In addition, they have trained nine local instructors
and started the implementation of a comprehensive training program. These
training efforts undlertaken by SPWD have to be further supported and expanded
so as to improve the skills of staff already in place and to fill vacancies
(which for many posts can be done only by lateral transfer or internal
promotion) with qualified and properly prepared personnet. Additional
instructors and training materials are needed for this purpose.



-9-
Sarawak
2.06       The organization and responsibilities of the Sarawak SPWD
(Chart 2) are similar to those of the Sabah SPWD: under the Department
Director, the Assistant Directors are in charge of buildings, roads and
airfields, armed forces works, water supply and sewerage, electricity supply,
design and investigation, mechanical branch and administration.  The field
organization includes 7 divisions subdivided into 25 districts and 14
mechanized road construction units (MRCU) attached to the divisions. The
MRCUs constitute the main organizational difference with the Sabah SPWD
because they carry out by force account practically all construction of
roads, airfields and site development. SPWD manpower is relatively large,
about 10,000 men, of whom about 6,000 are daily paid. Engineers and
equivalent grade staff are about 210, technicians 160, junior technicians
and supervisors 430, administrative and clerical staff 600, foremen and
overseers 580, artisans, mechanics, plant operators and drivers about 3,000.
Divisional engineers have large responsibilities and dispose of large
manpower; for example, the First (Kuching) and the Third (Sibu) Divisions,
respectively, employ 2,500 and 1,400 persons.
2.07       The Assistant Director in charge of the Roads and Airfields Branch
is responsible for the road network and airfields. The Branch headquarters
office has 12 engineers, 91 technicians and 240 other staff. Mechanical
Branch comprises central workshop and store, workshops in divisions,
districts and MRCU depots, and quarry and asphalt premix units. The SPWD
equipment inventory lists 3,100 major items including 350 light vehicles,
1,100 trucks, 1,470 earthmoving equipment, and 180 stone crushing, paving
and major ancillary plant.  About 30% of the equipment inventory is
overaged.
2.08       Just as in Sabah, the Sarawak SPWD faces considerable training
needs. There are few adequately skilled tradesmen for repair and operation
of equipment and for surveying and supervision of field works. There is
some organized training but staff is mainly trained on the job. Career
development plans provide for internal promotion but few instructors and
courses are available to prepare the staff for the examinations. Since 1962
the Road Branch operates the Junior Technical Assistants School, providing
one year training courses for junior technical assistants employed by the
Government in the fields of surveying, building, road construction, and
water supply, followed by two years of practical training. To date, only
280 students have graduated and many were subsequently lost to the private
sector. In 1982 there were only 30 trainees, and two West German volunteers
served as instructors. The school has no residential facilities and a bare
minimum of teaching aids and equipment. A mechanics mates school is in
operation within the Central Workshop in Kuching. The school is run by a
German volunteer, scheduled to leave in February 1983, and has very limited
facilities (one classroom and part of a shed for about 15 trainees) and no
space is available for its expansion.



- 10 -
C. Planning and Financing
2.09      In view of the relatively recent introduction of economic planning
procedures in both Sabah and Sarawak, and taking into account the limited
staff available, road planning pursues sound objectives with insufficient
means. In both states, the emphasis is on the creation of an all-weather
trunk road network connecting the main centers of production; on the
expansion of the agricultural road system to support rural development; and
on the establishment of sound maintenance practices. Identification of road
improvements is done by the Road Branches of the two SPWDs working in col-
laboration with the respective State Ministries of Works. Collaboration is
close and cordial but staff is short: the planning unit of the Sabah SPWD
Road Branch consists of two engineers, one of whom is primarily responsible
for the development of agricultural access roads. In the Sarawak SPWD, the
Road Branch staff includes one senior executive engineer with an assistant
for road planning and research. Staff in the two SEPUs involved in road
planning is also responsible for planning every other form of physical
infrastructure so that, not surprisingly, the overall capacity for long-term
planning and monitoring of road transport development is rather low. Lack
of staff has prevented the Government from devoting the attention it would
have liked to give to such issues as vehicle regulation and licensing,
transport pricing and cost recovery. Table 13 shows revenues generated by
road and Table 14 gasoline prices. User charges in both states cover
maintenance expenditures (Tables 1 and 2) but there is some doubt as to
whether each class of vehicle (for example, small commercial cars versus
logging trucks) pays its fair share. The appraisal mission discussed these
policy issues with the Government and is satisfied that they will be
confronted as more experienced staff becomes available over the next few
years.
2.10      In both states, road construction and maintenance are financed by
federal allocations and by the state budget. Highway investments have been
growing rapidly: in Sabah they increased from M$57 million in 1975 to
M$258 million in 1981 while the corresponding figures for Sarawak are
M$20 million and M$66 million. Road maintenance expenditures have been
growing by about 15% annually during the last five years both in Sabah and
in Sarawak and the amount budgeted per km would have been sufficient for
roads initially constructed to sound standards. However, most of the roads
require extensive upgrading before they can be incorporated into the routine
maintenance program. Tables 1 and 2 show details of expenditures incurred
in recent years.



- 11 -
D. Design and Construction
Sabah
2.11      Feasibility studies and engineering design are carried out mainly
by consultants, foreign or local, often working in joint ventures. The
Sabah road design standards, applied to all new construction and improvement
works, are patterned on the federal standards and specified in six groups:
from 01 to 06 (Table 3). Roads of 01 and 02 standards are gravelled, while
those of higher standards are bitumen paved. Pavement is designed on the
basis of projected traffic and authorized axle loads.  The SPWD materials
laboratory assists in the design and supervision of works, has a staff of
8 engineers and 12 technicians; it requires some strengthening through the
provision of additional geotechnical investigations equipment and training
(para. 3.10).
2.12      Road construction and improvements are carried out by foreign and
local contractors and by force account. Contracts for large projects are
usually entrusted to foreign contractors w'ho now carry out about M$90 mil-
lion worth of road works per year. Five Sabah contractors with adequate
equipment, good organization and a total annual output of about M$50 million
are currently working on roads. In addition, a number of small contractors
for road upgrading and resurfacing jobs carry out work of about M$20 million
per year. The road construction industry did not exist ten years ago but is
now active and expanding. Its main problem is shortage of qualified tech-
nical staff and skilled labor and this explains the relatively high minimum
wage of M$ 12.5 (US$5.4) per day. There is substantial immigration, number-
ing now about 80,000, of temporary laborers from Indonesia and the
Philippines.
2.13      Force account operations are carried out by 4 project units under
direct control of SPWD headquarters and by 8 divisional construction units.
Project units provide the flexibility needed for urgent and remote works.
The annual output of all force account operations is about M$80 million.
2.14      Supervision of works and administration of contracts are carried
out by foreign and/or local consultants and the Major Projects unit of the
Road Branch. Large contracts are under direct control of headquarters and
small-size contracts under divisional engineers. Supervision of works is
organized and carried out in a satisfactory manner.
Sarawak
2.15      Design of roads and medium-size bridges is carried out inr-house by
SPWD which found this adequate and convenient for its force account opera-
tions. Large bridges are usually designed by specialist foreign consult-
ants, and road feasibility studies financed by external aid are carried out



- 12 -
by consultants of the donor country. The local consultancy for highways is
limited to individuals who can provide little more than surveying services,
while the extensive use of PM consultants has not so far been required
because of the prevalent method of forsce account construction. Design
standards are not yet fully finalized, and those now in force are shown in
Table 4. Pavement is designed on the basis of traffic projections. Trunk
roads are usually built first with a gravel surface and are paved as traffic
grows.
2.16      The investigation and design unit of the Road Branch is staffed by
3 engineers, 14 technicians and draftsmen and about 50 men for field surveys.
In soil investigations the unit is assisted by the SPWD Central Materials
Laboratory, which is fairly well staffed and equipped, but needs some addi-
tional equipment and assistance by a geotechnical engineer.
2.17      MRCUs were first established in 1962 and presently carry out
practically all road construction and improvement as well as airfield and
site development work. Personnel of a unit varies from 200 to 500, and
equipment is allocated according to the work program. The total 1981 con-
struction output of the MRCUs was about M$ 110 million. Construction of
large bridges is by foreign contractors. Smaller bridges and culverts are
often built by local contractors. Sections of rural roads are built by
contract, especially when the work is reserved for "bumiputera" contrac-
tors,/l usually in contracts of an amount below M$ 120,000. Some other
works, including earthmoving and quarrying, are contracted, but the total of
such work is less than 5% of the MRCUs combined output. There is a number
of contractors registered with SPWD for civil works, roads, earthwork and
quarrying but their experience is to a large extent limited to the private
sector. The Government is planning to reduce the SPWD force account capacity
and carry out more road work by contract, releasing some MRCU equipment and
manpower for road maintenance. The Road Construction Sector Study, recently
commissioned by the Federal Government, will include recommendations related
to construction methods appropriate for Sarawak.
E. Maintenance
Sabah
2.18      Road maintenance has been strengthened with consultant assistance
through the Third Highway Project and the recently organized maintenance
unit extends downwards from SPWD headquarters through divisions and
districts. District superintendents and divisional maintenance engineers
are responsible directly to the chief executive engineer in charge of the
/1 Bumiputera contractor is an appelation reserved for contractors of a
truly indigenous origin.



- 13 -
maintenance unit. They have personnel, equipment and funds reserved for
road maintenance and accounted separately from other road expenditures.
Equipment alloted in 1982 to road maintenance included 107 light vehicles,
160 trucks, 150 items of earthmoving equipment and 42 items of ancillary
plant. A road inventory and a cost accounting system are currently being
implemented.
2.19      Maintenance Drograms and budgetary estimates are prepared by
divisional maintenance engineers and reviewed by the maintenance unit in
headquarters. Annual maintenance expenditure is currently about M$10,000
per km (US$4,350), and about equal to the maintenance cost in PM, but the
Sabah State Government considers it inadequate because of poor road condi-
tions due to low standards allowed when roads were built, higher than in PM
cost of labor, materials and equipment, and the fact that depreciation of
equipment is not included in PM unit costs.
2.20      Funds for road maintenance come from a Federal Government alloca-
tion and from the State-s own resources. The federal allocation of M$6,200
per mile was provisionally increased in 1982 to M$9,300 and applies only to
roads with a minimum 14-foot width. The 1981 expenditures for maintenance
of roads and bridges were M$43.5 million, with an additional M$9.9 million
for remedial works on storm and flood damage. More figures related to
maintenance expenditures are shown in Table 1.
Sarawak
2.21      In Sarawak there is no clear separation between road construction
and maintenance. An engineer of the Road Branch is responsible for monitor-
ing maintenance budget and operations. Maintenance accounts are in prin-
ciple separated from other road expenditure accounts. For budgetary
purposes, maintenance costs are estimated on the basis of road mileage and
weighted average costs. The federal allocation is as in Sabah: currently
M$9,300 per mile per year. The Sarawak SPWD estimate (quoting the same
arguments as Sabah in para. 2.19) for adequate maintenance is an average of
M$16,000 per mile leading to a total requirement of M$32 million , while the
1982 allocation was about M$20 million.
2.22      The State Government of Sarawak has decided to improve road main-
tenance by setting up a maintenance unit in SPWD headquarters for programmr
ing, resource allocation, progress monitoring and cost accounting, and
setting up, on a pilot basis, road maintenance organizations in two divi-
sions: First (Kuching) and Third (Sibu). These divisions are responsible
for 896 km and 402 km of roads, respectively, representing about 40% of the
total network.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project has been cast in the context of the Government-s
developmental objectives and of the Bank's lending strategy for Malaysia.
Sabah's and Sarawak's incidence of poverty is larger than that of peninsular
Malaysia. The project would provide for access roads to support agricul-
tural and agro-industrial activities in the rural areas of Sabah and would
assist the future development of both Sabah's and Sarawak's transport
networks so that both States can base the development of their transport
system on concrete plans for agricultural, forestry and industrial growth.
The project contains large staff training components for the Sabah and
Sarawak SPWDs and, in addition, a separate component is designed to estab-
lish road maintenance organizations in two divisions in Sarawak. Assistance
for policy formulation will be extended to the Federal Economic Planning
Unit which would conduct a nationwide ports study and to both Sabah and
Sarawak through the road transport review which would allow the two States
to produce a coordinated program for road improvements and would further
strengthen the collaboration among SDO's and SPWDs in project preparation
and sectoral planning.
B. Description
3.02      The project consists of:
(a) road improvements in Sabah comprising construction and upgrading
of 192 km rural trunk roads and of about 100 km agricultural
access roads;
(b) staff training in the Sabah and Sarawak SPWD;
(c) strengthening of Sarawak SPWD road maintenance organization;
(d) a road transport review in Sabah and Sarawak and road studies in
Sarawak; and
(e) a national ports study.
Road Improvements
3.03      In January 1980, Government appointed consultants (joint venture
of P. Fraenkel and Partners, Konsultant Kumpulan and Malaysia International
Consultants) to carry out feasibility studies in Sabah for the improvement



- 15 -
of rural trunk roads totalling about 350 km and for construction of two
major bridges.  The Sandakan-Telupid and the Lahad Datu-Sandakan roads were
among the items found to be economically justified and the Government
requested the Bank to include their improvement in the project. The two
bridges are located on the Lahad Datu-Sandakan road and will replace ferries
on the Kinabatangan and Segama rivers. The Government considers replacement
of the ferries as an essential measure, necessary to ensure rapid transpor-
tation in emergencies, and has undertaken to finance fully the construction
of these bridges (para. 3.05). In July 1981 the Government commissioned the
same consultants to carry out detailed engineering of the roads and bridges.
The detailed engineering report and the drawings of project roads were
reviewed by the appraisal mission and found satisfactory. Total length of
trunk road improvements to be financed under the project would be 192 km,
consisting of 75.4 km of the new Sandakan-Telupid road and 116.6 km of the
Lahad Datu-Sandakan road (paras. 3.04 and 3.05). The engineering reports
reviewed by the appraisal mission provide, in separate volumes for each
project road, substantial geotechnical data obtained by the consultant from
soil investigations related to subgrade conditions along the alignment of
project roads, sources of road materials and aggregates, and the results of
boreholes at the location of bridge foundations and deep cuts on new
alignments.
3.04      The existing Sandakan (mile 33)-Telupid road (87.8 km) is the only
unpaved section of the highway linking the eastern and western parts of
Sabah. From Sandakan to mile 33 the road is paved. From mile 33 to
Telupid, the road is situated on generally hilly terrain. It was built in
the 1960s to low geometrical standards with gradients frequently in excess
of 10% and in places as high as 14%. The present traffic is about 350
vehicles per day (vpd) about half of which are heavy vehicles including
about 40 logging trucks. Vehicle speed is low because of poor road stand-
ards and rough gravel surface. Under the project, the road will be built to
05 standard (Table 3) partly on new alignment resulting in road length
shortening of 12.4 km. The proposed construction standards imply 7.3 m wide
asphaltic concrete pavement on a formation of 12 m average width. The works
will include five new bridges of 20 m and 30 m spans, totalling 230 m.
3.05      The Lahad Datu-Sandakan road (121.8 km) is part of the East Coast
road joining Tawau with Sandakan. The project section of the road joins the
Sandakan-Telupid road at mile 32 (Labuk Junction). The existing road was
built in the 1970s to gravel standards and has generally satisfactory
alignment and gradients, except on about 20 km from Labuk Junction, where
the vertical alignment requires improvement. The present traffic is about
450 vpd at Labuk Junction, growing to 800 vpd near Lahad Datu. Under the
project, the road will be improved to 05 standards (Table 3). The works
will consist of improvements of curves and gradients, widening of formation,
drainage, pavement, and three new bridges totalling 120 m length. Two major
bridges (Kinabatangan and Segama) would be built with the Government-s own
financial resources concurrently with road improvements. The Kinabatangan



- 16 -
bridge is designed by the consultant as a steel truss of 3 spans: 72 m, 144
m and 72 m, with approach spans of 25 m, while the Segama bridge is designed
as a 3-span plate girder of 60 m, 90 m and 60 m. The appraisal mission
discussed with the State Government bridge design and it is understood that
tenderers would be requested to present alternative concrete structures.
The construction contracts for the two major bridges would include approach
sections of the new road totalling, respectively, 3.5 km and 1.75 km, which
would thus be excluded from the project contracts. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would undertake and complete
construction of the Kinabatangan and Segama bridges by December 31, 1987.
3.06      For the two project roads, the pavement proposed by the consult-
ants would have 5 cm asphaltic concrete on a crushed stone base 15 cm on the
Lahad Datu-Sandakan road and 18 cm on the Sandakan-Telupid road, 15 cm
subbase and 25 cm selected subgrade. This pavement is expected to be
adequate for 20 years provided a 5 cm asphaltic concrete overlay is applied
after 10 years. Logging trucks exceeding legal axle limits of 9 ton for
single axle and 15 ton for tandem axle should be prevented from using the
project roads. Logging traffic has to be accommodated however and the
Government proposes to use existing roads and tracks. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that necessary measures would be taken to bar
logging trucks from using project roads without unduly constraining forest
exploitation. This may be accomplished through adequate maintenance of the
existing roads and tracks, through the installation of appropriate traffic
warning signs, and through adequate traffic control at points of access to
the project roads.
3.07      Agricultural access roads proposed for inclusion in the project
would support agricultural development and improve rural living conditions
by providing all-weather access to areas served seasonally or unreliably by
road. A total amount of M$ 50 million including supervision, and physical
and price contingencies would be spent on improvements identified and
evaluated by a working committee of SEPU, SPWD and SLDB officials. Candi-
date items may be existing roads requiring upgrading, or "penetration" roads
whose construction will open up new agricultural areas. Out of five roads
initially considered for inclusion in the project, the working committee has
identified three economically justified roads: (a) the Sapi-Nangoh road
(34 km); (b) the Lahad Datu-Bakapit road (29 km); and (c) the Tawau-Merotai
road (21.6 km). Proposed improvements would be to standards 02, 03, or 04
(Table 3), depending on traffic considerations. For example, the
Sapi-Nangoh penetration road would be built to 02 standards, while the Lahad
Datu-Bakapit road would be improved to 04 standards because the present
traffic is already about 500 vpd. Detailed engineering drawings for the
Lahad Datu-Bakapit road, prepared by local consultants, were reviewed by the
appraisal mission and found satisfactory. The construction cost of this
road, including a 90 m bridge plus contingencies and supervision, is esti-
mated at M$ 20 million. For the other two roads, no engineering design was
available at the time of appraisal and their combined total cost estimate of
about M$ 25 million was based on results of detailed engineering studies for
similar roads in the area.



- 17 -
3.08      Bank financing of agricultural access road improvements will be
subject to Bank final review and acceptance of the detailed design and of
an economic evaluation showing economic rate of return of 12% or more.
Detailed design and supervision will be carried out by local consultants and
construction will be by contract.
Staff Training in the Sabah SPWD
3.09      The project would assist the Sabah SPWD in strengthening its
manpower planning and training capacity. The SPWD training center would be
given assistance through services of specialized consultants for (a) man-
power planning; (b) training of local instructors; and (c) staff training.
Training operations would cater to the needs of all SPWD sections, with
emphasis on personnel in the Road and Mechanical branches. First priority
will be given to the training of local instructors. Course syllabi will be
prepared for (a) refresher courses, courses needed to facilitate internal
promotion, and courses to help staff being transferred to new duties; (b)
induction courses; and (c) basic training. Each training program will be
designed so as to comply with personnel regulations regarding job descrip-
tions, internal promotion, and examinations. Courses should be organized
for all trades up to junior technician in respect of the existing staff
(i.e., a combined 1982 total of about 700) and for the additional 250 new
staff hired annually to fill vacancies. Thus, the training center would be
required to cater, over a 3-year period covered by the project, for an
output of about 500 trainees annually. In addition, seminars for higher-
level staff would be organized, including subjects such as manpower planning
and development, and monitoring and evaluation systems.
3.10      To achieve the above objectives the project would finance 180 man-
months of consultant assistance over a 3-year period in a 5-member team
composed of one manpower planning and development expert (team leader), and
four specialists-instructors in engineering, mechanics, and equipment
operation for 36 months each and in storekeeping for 24 months. In
addition, services of a geotechnical engineer for a 12-month period would be
provided to assist the SPWD materials laboratory. To strengthen the team's
performance, the terms of reference should require that the experts acquire
familiarity with the Malay language to communicate with the trainees in the
subjects of their specialization. The project would also provide for ten
local (or from neighoring ASEAN countries) instructors during a 3 year
period and for fellowships of 3 to 6 months duration for 10 instructors and
5 professional staff of the SPWD. The list of teaching aids, equipment,
tools, furniture, vehicles and materials required for the increased workload
of the training center will be determined by the SPWD in cooperation with
the consultant team. The list will include additional equipment for the
Materials Laboratory costing not more than M$300,000.



- 18 -
Staff Training in the Sarawak SPWD
3.11      The target group for training contains the staff working on road
construction and maintenance, equipment, vehicle operation and repairs, and
in building trades.. The existing, and very limited, training facilities are
located in an area where additional buildings cannot be constructed. The
project will provide for construction and equipment of a new training center
which will accommodate the existing school that would be extended to offer
courses for works overseers and foremen, mechanical and building tradesmen,
equipment operators and drivers. SPWD owns a suitable site at the Stutong
Forest Reserve near Kuching where the training center can be built. The
capital investment will include site development, classrooms, workshops,
offices, stores, hostel, equipment, vehicles, tools, furniture, and teaching
aids.
3.12      To assist the SPWD with the construction and operation of the new
training center, with the preparation and acquisition of teaching aids, with
the training of instructors and with the establishment of a comprehensive
manpower management system, the project would finance the services of a
6-member consultant team composed of one management planning and development
expert (team leader), five specialist instructors in engineering, buildings,
mechanics, equipment operation and storekeeping. The team leader and the
engineering and building trades instructors would provide services during
48 months, the instructors for mechanical trades and equipment operation
during 36 months, and the instructor in storekeeping during 24 months. In
addition, a geotechnical engineer would provide assistance to the Central
Materials laboratory during a 9-month period.. The total assistance will
amount to 249 man-months. The team should mobilize in two stages: in the
preparatory stage, it would consist of three experts required to assist in
the design, in the supervision of construction and equipment of the training
center and in the start of its operations. In the second stage, it would
comprise the full team to carry out a training program with an annual output
of about 600 trainees which in addition, would require about 20 local (or
from neighboring ASEAN countries) instructors. The project would provide
training fellowships for about 10 instructors and 5 professional staff of
SPWD.
3.13      Completion of the new training center is the critical milestone
for launching the proposed training program. It is estimated that
construction would require about two years. Training activities should
begin after one year, immediately after essential facilities have been
completed. While design, tendering and construction of the Training Center
is underway, Sarawak SPWD would carry out the following steps: (a) arrange
for the creation of the required posts for instructors in the establishment
list; (b) estimate optimum and minimum staff requirements; and (c) develop
with the assistance of consultants a detailed training program for the
different staff categories.



- 19 -
Road MaintenanceaitioinSarawak
3.14      The Sarawak SPWD proposes to strengthen its road maintenance orga-
nization to ensure adequate programming, resource allocation, execution of
maintenance work, progress monitoring and cost accounting. These objectives
require strengthening of the road maintenance unit at SPWD Headquarters.
The project will also assist SPWD in setting up road maintenance organiza-
tions in the First (Kuching) and the Third (Sibu) Divisions. The Government
regards these as first steps in a process which will eventually provide
Sarawak with a thorough road maintenance organization.
3.15      For this purpose, the project would finance consulting services of
one civil engineer and one mechanical engineer (for 3 years) and one
accountant (for 2 years), a total of 96 man-months. The existing road
maintenance facilities in Kuching and Sibu divisions will be upgraded and
two new maintenance depots set up: in Balai Ringin in the First division
and in Selangau in the Third division. The upgrading of existing facilities
will include building improvements and provision of additional equipment and
tools. The new depots would require land acquisition and development,
construction of workshops, offices and stores and provision of workshop
equipment and tools. Moreover, provision will be made for additional road
maintenance equipment (4 graders and 8 rollers) for the new depot in
Selangau.
Road Transport Review and Feasibility Studies
3.16      The growth of the Sabah and Sarawak economies is expected to con-
tinue and this will strain the capacity of the road network. The project
would include a review covering the road networks of the two States in order
to: (a) identify constraints upon the optimal operation of road transport in
the two States and between them; (b) identify constraints from inadequate
road infrastructure upon agricultural, forestry and other resource develop-
ment; and (c) establish priorities for the expansion and improvement of the
road transport network. The project would finance the provision of about 80
man-months of consulting services to perform the above tasks.
3.17      The review will identify priorities in development of trunk and
feeder roads in Sabah and Sarawak. While Sabah has prepared feasibility
studies and detailed engineering for a number of roads, in Sarawak such
studies are still to be done. To assist Sarawak in compiling a portfolio of
economically justified road improvements, selected on the basis of
priorities established by the road transport review, the project would
provide for studies of about 500 km of trunk roads and of about 100 km of
feeder and rural roads.
National Ports Study
3.18      At Government's request, the project would finance the foreign
exchange cost of a National Ports Study for the whole of Malaysia. The aim



- 20 -
of the study would be to review existing port facilities and current admin-
istrative practices, and to prepare a long-term port development program
including both an investment plan and measures for operational improvements.
The study would be carried out by specialized consultants.
C. Cost Estimates
3019      The total cost of the project, including 18% taxes in the local
cost component and contingencies, is estimated at M$340.2 million
(USS147.9 million), with a foreign exchange component of 58% or US$86.0 mil-
lion. project components and costs are shown in Table 3.1.
3.20      Construction cost of rural trunk roads was estimated using quanti-
ties from detailed engineering studies and December 1982 base prices,
checked against current contract rates in Sabah. The agricultural access
roads component provides for a total allocation of M$50 million, proposed by
Government as a ceiling, and including contingencies and supervision. The
cost of buildings for the Sarawak training center and road maintenance
depots is based on estimated floor surface and 1982 costs per sq ft in
Sarawak, while eqtuipment, tools, furnishing and teaching aid costs were
estimated on the basis of summary lists discussed between the Sarawak SPWD
officials and the appraisal mission.
3.21      On the basis of experience from the Third Highway Project the
supervision cost of rural trunk roads construction was estimated at 7% of
the construction cost, with a 36% foreign exchange content in view of the
substantial participation of local consultants in this type of services.
Expatriate consultants including experts with non-academic as well as
academic qualifications for training were estimated to cost an average of
US$10,000 per man-month, comprising remuneration, international travel,
consulting firms- overheads and fees and local expense allowances. The
all-cost inclusive rate for consulting services for the national ports
study, road transport review, feasibility studies, and technical support was
estimated at US$12,500 per man-month in line with the current international
rates for this type of services. The current average cost for local
consultants is about US$5,000 per man-month.
3.22      Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of cost for road con-
struction components on the basis of detailed engineering. The same
percentage has been applied on the training, road maintenance and study
components. The price contingency is based on the implementation schedule
(Annex 1) and on the assessment of international price escalation trends: 8%
in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% in 1986 and thereafter.  The same
price escalation trend applies to the local construction market conditions.
The above assumptions lead to 22% price contingency being added to the cost
of road construction. The same percentage was applied to all other
components, which, taken together, account for a relatively small (13.5%)
portion of the total project cost.



- 21 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
M$ million                  US$ million            exchange
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total            (x)
1. Road Improvements
a. Rural trunk roads, construction    70.00   97.00  167.00   30.43   42.17              72.60       58
supervision        7.50    4.20   11.70    3.26        1.83      5.09       36
Subtotal Trunk Roads             77.50  101.20  178.70   33.69   44.00    77.69
b. Agr. Access Roads, construction         15.00   21.00   36.00    6.52    9.13    15.65            58
supervision        1.28    0.72      2.00    0.56      0.31      0.87       36
Subtotal Agr. Access Roads    16.28   21.72    38.00    7.08    9.44    16.52
Subtotal Road Improvements    93.78  122.92  216.70   40.77   53.44    94.21
2. Sabah Training
a. Consulting services                      1.24    2.90    4.14    0.54        1.26      1.80       70
b. Local instructors                        0.76    0.32      1.08     0.33     0.14      0.47       30
c. Fellowships                             -         0.40    0.40    -          0.17      0.17      100
d. Equipment, vehicles, tools,              0.40    1.60    2.00    0.17        0.70      0.87       80
materials
Subtotal Training Sabah           2.40    5.22      7.62      1.04    2.27       3.31
3. Sarawak Training
a. Consulting services                      1.27    4.01      5.28     0.55     1.74      2.29       70
b. Local instructors                        1.52     0.64    2.16      0.66     0.28      0.94       30
c. Fellowships                             -         0.40    0.40    -          0.17      0.17      100
d. Buildings                                1.20    0.80    2.00    0.52        0.35      0.87       40
e. Equipment, vehicles, tools,              0.44    1.76    2.20    0.20    0.76          0.96       80
materials
Subtotal Training Sarawak         4.43    7.61   12.04    1.93        3.30       5.23
4. Sarawak Road Maintenance
a. Consulting services                      0.83     1.93     2.76    0.36      0.84      1.20       70
b. Land acquisition                         0.20    -         0.20    0.09    -           0.09        -
c. Buildings and land development           1.20    0.80    2.00    0.52        0.35      0.87       40
d. Workshop equipment, tools,               0.24     0.96     1.20     0.10    0.42       0.52       80
materials
e. Road maintenance equipment               0.50    2.00    2.50    0.22        0.87      1.09       80
Subtotal Maintenance Sarawak   2.97         5.69    8.66      1.29     2.48      3.77
5. Studies
a. Road Transport Review                  0.69     1.61     2.30    0.30    0.70         1.00       70
b. Sarawak Road Feasibility Studies   0.45          1.05     1.50    0.19      0.46      0.65       70
c.  National Port Study                   1.38     3.22     4.60    0.60      1.40      2.00        70
Subtotal Studies                     2.52     5.88    8.40      1.09     2.56      3.65
Subtotal, Net Project Cost         106.10  147.32  253.42   46.12   64.05   110.17
Physical contingencies 10%          10.61   14.73   25.34       4.61     6.41     11.02
Subtotal                           116.71  162.05  278.76   50.73   70.46   121.19
Price contingencies 22,             25.68   35.74   61.42    11.16   15.54    26.70
Total Project Cost                 142.39  197.79  340.18    61.89   86.00   147.89           58
Front-end Fee on Bank loan              -    0.51      0.51        -    0.22       0.22
Total Financing Required           142.39  198.30  340.69    61.89   86.22   148.11           58
Base cost estimates in December 1982 prices.



- 22 -
D. Financing
3.23      The proposed Bank loan of US$86.22 million including a front-end
fee of US$0.22 million would finance 58% of the total project cost, equiva-
lent to the foreign exchange component. The Government contribution of
M$142.4 million (US$61.9 million equivalent) would include taxes amounting
to about 18% of the total project cost.
E. Implementation
3.24      The Federal Economic Planning Unit would be responsible for the
National Ports Study and the Road Transport Review for Sabah and Sarawak.
The Sabah SPWD Director would be responsible for road improvement and SPWD
training components and the Sarawak SPWD Director would be responsible for
SPWD training, and road maintenance components under the overall responsi-
bility of the Federal Ministry of Works and Utilities. Monitoring of
project implementation would be carried out by joint working groups of the
Sabah and Sarawak SPWDs and SDO's. Physical and financial progress reports
from the implementing agencies would be submitted to the Federal Government
and the Bank on a regular basis. Monitoring reports on project progress
would be prepared by the implementing agencies and reviewed by the Federal
Economic Planning Unit and the Treasury. Consultants engaged by the two
States would assist the respective SPWDs in supervision of infrastructure
works, staff training, road maintenance, and studies. Construction would be
carried out by contractors. The project implementation schedule shown in
Annex 1, was discussed and confirmed at negotiations. The project will
not cause any environmental or ecological problems.
3.25      Land acquisition is significant only for the Sandakan-Telupid
Road. Government has already commenced the procedure to acquire the
necessary right of way and assurances were obtained at negotiations that
this procedure will be completed by the time construction contracts are
awarded.
3.26      Road construction will be carried out by equipment-intensive
methods because labor shortages and the resulting high wages preclude the
economic use of large numbers of unskilled laborers in construction.
F. Procurement
3.27      Trunk road construction contracts amounting to about US$83 million
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. The trunk roads construc-
tion would be put to tender in four packages of about equal size: for the
Sandakan-Telupid road, package (a) would cover the length from Telupid to



- 23 -
km 34.20 and package (b) from km 34.20 to mile 33. For the Lahad Datu-
Sandakan road, package (c) would cover the length from Labuk Junction to
Km 53.20 (Kinabatangan Bridge approach) and package (d) from km 56.70 to
Lahad Datu. The access sections to the Kinabatangan and Segama bridges,
respectively 3.5 km and 1.75 km would be excluded from the contracts: these
sections are part of the proposed bridge improvements to be financed in
total by the Government (para. 3.05).  Agricultural access roads estimated
at more than US$2.5 million would also be procured by ICB, while roads
estimated to cost below this amount, as well as buildings for the training
center and for the maintenance depots in Sarawak would be procured by local
competitive bidding (LCB) which is open to foreign contractors. The
aggregate amount of LCB procurement would be about US$7.0 million in about
12 contracts.
3.28      In April 1982, the Government published in the local press an
invitation for prequalification of contractors for the Sandakan-Telupid and
for the Sandakan-Lahad Datu roads, sending at the same time prequalification
notices to the local representatives of 27 countries. The response was
satisfactory: 43 construction firms from 10 countries, including domestic
contractors, applied for prequalification.
3.29      Purchase of equipment and materials for the training and mainte-
nance components would be by ICB for packages estimated at more than
US$200,000. Packages estimated to cost less than US$200,000, would be
procured according to local procedures, which are satisfactory. In the
evaluation of equipment bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a margin
of preference equal to the applicable customs duty or 15% of the c.i.f.
price, whichever is lower.
3.30      Draft documents and contracts for works in excess of US$2.5 mil-
lion covering about 96% of the project's works component and for equipment
in excess of US$500,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The
Bank Guidelines will be followed for the procurement of consulting services,
and all agreements for such services will be entered into under terms of
reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
G. Disbursements
3.31      Disbursements would be at the rate of:  (a) 58% of total expendi-
tures for civil works and buildings; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported equipment, tools and materials or the ex-factory price net of taxes
for items manufactured locally, and 70% of total cost of other local
expenditures; (c) 100% of total expenditures for consulting services for
studies and technical assistance, and 50% of total expenditures for works
supervision; and (d) 100% of total expenditures for overseas fellowships.
Disbursements would be against normal documentation except that statements
of expenditure would be used for small purchases of equipment, tools and
materials (items costing less than US$10,000 equivalent each).



- 24 -
Based on these allocations and on the project implementation schedule
(Annex 1), the schedule of cumulative disbursements has been estimated as
shown in Table 5. It is expected that project loan disbursements will be
somewhat faster than the typical profile established for highway projects in
the region because the bulk of project expenditures is for the construction
of road segments for which detailed engineering is completed and procurement
procedures have already been initiated. Acquisition of right-of-way is not
anticipated to cause delays (para. 3.25). Disbursements from the Bank loan
would not exceed the foreign exchange component and are expected to be
completed by Junea 30, 1989.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.32      All agencies involved in project implementation are subject to
normal government controls and audit procedures which are satisfactory.
They would each maintain separate project accounts. Assurances were
obtained that al:L project accounts for each fiscal year would be audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank; and that certified copies of
audited financia:L statements would be forwarded to the Bank within nine
months of the close of each financial year.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.01      Out of an estimated base project cost of US$110.2 million, road
improvement components account for about US$94.2 million, or 86% and are
justified on the basis of vehicle operating cost and maintenance cost
savings estimated after a comparison of road facilities before and after
improvement. Benefits from institution-building components (staff training,
road maintenance organization, studies) cannot be satisfactorily quantified
and have been excluded from the economic evaluation calculations which are
summarized below.
A. The Sandakan-Telupid Road
4.02      The area of influence extends 20-30 km on each side of the
Sandakan-Telupid road and contains about 7,000 inhabitants, expected to
increase to 15,000 by the year 2000. The road serves a number of agricul-
tural projects, whose full effect has not yet emerged. In addition, there
are numerous committed projects scheduled to be launched during the FMP by
the Sabah Land Development Board (SLDB), the Department of Lands and Surveys,
and the Department of Agriculture. Forestry activities in the area continue
to be important, with ten current concessions for forest exploitation,
covering a total area of 120,000 ha. A large portion of the forests has



- 25 -
already been logged, leaving a balance of about 30,000 ha which, over the
next 10 years, are expected to yield about 60 million cubic feet of timber.
The overall prospects for the area served by the road are for increased
agricultural activity with the emphasis on oil palm, rubber, rice and cocoa
in both estate and smallholder settlement schemes. As projects mature, real
incomes will increase and so will transport demand. Employment and income
generated by logging activities will decline as current concessions expire
by 1990 but forest clearance will continue to ensure that good quality
agricultural land remains in ample supply. Land improvement will
consolidate the town of Sandakan as the main import and export center for
the Labuk-Sugut and the Kinabatangan Districts, and the higher economic
activity is expected to increase traffic on the Sandakan-Telupid Road from
about 300 vpd in 1980 to about 2,000 vpd in 2005. The economic evaluation
compared construction and repaving costs of the proposed road with vehicle
operating and maintenance cost savings expected to result from the road
improvements. The basic parameter was the projected traffic growth.
Traffic counts were carried out on two separate links: Link A101 - Mile 33
west of Labuk Junction to mile 53 and Link A102 - Mile 53 to Telupid./l
Table 6 shows assumed growth rates and traffic forecasts for 1980-2005.
Vehicle operating cost estimates are shown in Table 9. Road maintenance
cost savings have been estimated by comparing the requirements of the
existing road with those of the proposed one. Total savings are shown in
Table 10. The net benefit streams (Table 8) show an economic rate of return
of 17.6%. The sensitivity of the ERR was tested by varying costs + 10% and
benefits + 10%. The ERRs range from 14.9% to 19.2%.
B. The Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road
4.03      For traffic analysis purposes,/l the Lahad Datu-Sandakan road was
subdivided into five segments, of which the last carries mostly local
traffic in excess of 2,300 vehicles ADT in 1982.
Labuk Junction-Bukit Garam Junction (B201) ...... 23.4 km
Bukit Garam Junction-Kinabatangan River (B202) ... 32.3 km
Kinabatangan River-Segama River (B203) .... ....... 51.1 km
Segama River-Segama Junction (B204) ..........   9.5 km
Segama Junction-Lahad Datu (B205) ................ 5.5 km
4.04      The area of influence extends 15-20 km on each side of the road
and contains about 35,000 persons, most of whom live in or near Lahad Datu.
/1 For details, see Sabah Rural Trunk Roads Feasibility Study in the
Project File.



- 26 -
No official figures are available but rural population along the road is
growing fairly rapidly and the area of influence may reach 75,000
inhabitants by the year 2000. There is ample agricultural land and the
Department of Lands and Surveys, the Federal Land Development Authority
(FELDA), and SLDB are sponsoring smallholder and estate schemes for the
cultivation of cocoa, oil palm, coffee, pepper, rice and rubber. Logging
output has been virtually exhausted but the Sabah Forest Development
Authority (SAFODA) proposes to develop 5,500 ha of new forests at Batu
Puteh, where the road crosses the Kinabatangan River. Further population
growth in Lahad Datu (which over 1970-80 grew at an annual rate of 17%),
increased exchanges between the Lahad Datu and the Sandakan and Kota
Kinabalu areas, and the gradual maturity of settlement and estate
development will strengthen transport demand and from 600 vpd at the
Sandakan road junction, traffic is expected to reach over 3,000 vpd in 2005.
4.05      The economic evaluation compared construction and repaving costs
with vehicle operating and maintenance cost savings associated with the
proposed improvements, taking as key variable the assumed traffic growth
rates for each link of the road. Table 7 shows traffic estimates for
1980-2005. Vehicle operating cost estimates are shown in Table 11. Mainte-
nance cost savings would arise through lower maintenance expenditures on the
improved road, compared with the higher expenditures necessitated by the
unsatisfactory condition of the existing route. By road link, maintenance
cost savings are shown in Table 12. The net benefit streams (Table 8) show
an economic rate of return of 13.2%. The sensitivity to ERR was tested by
varying costs + 10% and benefits + 10%. The ERRs range from 10.9% to 18.4%.
C. Agricultural Access Roads
4.06      Road works under this component are to support agroindustrial
and/or agricultural projects and to serve the rural population. Agricul-
tural access roads included in the project are in areas with existing and
planned SLDB and FELDA plantations. For the development of plantations,
SLDB, like FELDA, signs contracts with private organizations which do the
land clearing, build service roads on the plantations and plant the young
trees, primarily palm oil and cocoa. Depending on the size of the planta-
tions to be developed, the contracts last from 2 to 4 years. After this
period, SLDB/FELDA take over the maintenance of the plantations and their
aim is to have the plantation workers become shareholders participating in
profit-sharing once the young trees reach maturity. Funds for the construc-
tion of mills, such as those for the production of palm oil, are normally
obtained from the private sector without difficulty.
4.07      The Sabah State Government has developed methodologies for the
appraisal of improvements of existing access roads and for the construction
of "penetration" roads, or roads which presently do not exist and will open



- 27 -
new agricultural areas. SEPU, PWD and SLDB have established a Working
Committee to identify and appraise candidate roads. The committee, which is
competent to carry out these tasks, is augmented by a FELDA official if
proposed roads lead to FELDA plantations. Depending on the availability of
data, access road improvements are appraised following the consumer surplus
or producer surplus approach, or a combination of the two. The Working
Committee inivestigated a number of candidate roads and proposed as a start
the following three.
4.08      The Sapi-Nangoh Road (34 km) will support the development of an
SLDB-sponsored oil palm scheme. The road starts at about the mid-way point
of the project section of the Sandakan-Telupid road, leads northward to
Nangoh and will eventually form a section of the planned East Coast road
system to Pitas where it will join the West Coast roads. The Sapi and
Nangoh plantations and the plantations along the road are expected to employ
2,300 rural poor. The construction of this road will also be beneficial to
the planned development of the Trusan Sapi Padi (rice) estate to be located
east of the proposed palm oil plantation along the road. The Lahad Datu-
Bakapit Road (29 km) will serve major agricultural development areas such as
the SLDB Silabukan I and II schemes, the FELDA-sponsored Tenku scheme as
well as numerous smallholders cultivating cocoa along both sides of the
proposed road. When fully developed, the SLDB schemes will employ about
2,200 persons while the FELDA scheme will support about 15,000. The
existing road is a low standard gravel road, servicing an already productive
agricultural area, where additional development schemes are in progress.
The road forms a section of the existing road to Ter.gku and of the proposed
road to Tambisan on the northeast coast thereby opening an extensive area
hitherto inaccessible to rural development.  The Tawau-Merotai Road
(21.6 km) serves a population of 10,000 working on a total of about 48,000
ha of oil palm, cocoa, rubber and softwoods. SLDB, FELDA, smallholder and
private schemes under exploitation or development are within the road's area
of influence. Despite the road's poor condition which often requires
closure after heavy rains, traffic volumes average about 800 vehicles per
day.
4.09      The Working Committee (para. 4.07) found that the above three
roads have ERR's of 12% or more and Annex Table 8 shows the net benefit
streams of each.  The Tawau-Merotai Road (ERR 19.8%) and the Lahad
Datu-Bakapit Road (ERR15.1%) are justified on the basis of vehicle operating
cost and maintenance savings. The Sapi-Nangoh Road has been evaluated as
part of an integrated agricultural development project which shows an ERR of
11.7%. The economic justification took into account the costs and benefits
of an investment package consisting of the proposed road, of the further
development of an isolated plantation near Nangoh, of a new plantation along
the road, and of a mill with a capacity of 30 tons/hour to be increased, two
years later, to 60 tons/hour.



- 28 -
D. Risks
4.10      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  Timely
improvement of agricultural access roads in Sabah would depend on close
collaboration among SEPU, SPWD and numerous agencies (SLDB, FELDA et. al.)
involved in rural development.  To improve inter-agency cooperation, the
Government has established a working committee under the SEPU Director of
Development and this group has prepared the evaluation of the roads included
in the project.  The possible delay in availability of right of way is                    
taken care of by an early commencement of the land acquisition process
(para. 3.25). The prequalification procedure launched in 1982 (para. 3.28)
had indicated wide interest of foreign and domestic contractors promising
keen competition for the proposed road construction contracts. The usual
risk of implementation delays in individual components has been mitigated
through the selection of high priority items: road improvements in Sabah
concord with the State's highway development program and trunk road segments
included in the project are in an advanced stage of preparation; improvement
of the Sabah and Sarawak SPWD training capacity is urgent because of
nationwide shortages of qualified manpower; road maintenance and road
construction studies have high priority in Sarawak.
4.11      The possibility of optimistic assumptions regarding construction
costs and benefits for the road improvement components has been tested by
varying costs + 10% and benefits + 10%. The results are given in Table 4.1
and show that road improvements have an overall ERR of 15.0% with a range
from 12.6% to 16.4%.
4.12      The sensitivity of the ERR has also been subjected to a switch
value analysis at the 12% opportunity cost of capital. Table 4.2 summar-
izes the results of the analysis and shows the range within which actual
costs and benefits can deviate from estimated levels without jeopardizing
the economic justification of the proposed road improvements. The low
values shown for the Sapi-Nangoh road reflect the need for careful implemen-
tation and cost monitoring of all the other components of the agricultural
scheme to which the road belongs (para. 4.09).



- 29 -
Table 4.1: ROAD IMPROVEMENTS: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ERR (%)
Lahad                Lahad
Sandakan-   Datu-    Tawau-       Datu-    Sapi-
Telupid   Sandakan  Merotai   Bakapit   Nangoh          All
Cost    Benefits      road         road     road        road      road       roads
As         As
esti-      esti-
mated     mated        17.6       13.2       19.1      15.1       11.7       15.0
As
esti-
+ 10%      mated       16.3       12.1       17.7      14.0       10.8       13.9
As
esti-
- 10%      mated       19.2       14.5       20.7      16.4       12.7       16.4
As
esti-
mated       +10%       19.0       18.4      20.6       20.4       12.6       16.2
As
esti-
mated       -10%       16.1       12.0      17.5       13.8       10.7       13.8
+ 10%       -10%       14.9       10.9       16.2      12.8        9.9       12.6
Table 4.2:  SWITCH VALUE ANALYSIS
Switch values
Road Improvement                        Costs         Benefits
Sandakan-Telupid road                  +54.4          -35.3
Lahad Datu-Sandakan road               +11.0          - 9.9
Tawau-Merotai road                     +69.4          -41.0
Lahad Datu-Bakapit road                +31.0          -23.7
Sapi-Nangoh road                       - 3.2          + 3.3
All roads                              +29.3          -22.6



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained with respect to the
following:
(a)  that Government would undertake and complete construction of
the Kinabatangan and Segama bridges by December 31, 1987
(para. 3.05);
IF
(b)  that appropriate measures would be implemented to bar logging
trucks exceeding the legal axle limits from using the project
trunk roads in Sabah (para. 3.06); and
(c)  that the right-of-way acquisitions required for the Sabah road
improvements would be completed before construction contract
awards (para. 3.25).
5.02      Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$86.22 million, with a 15-year maturity including a grace
period of three years. The Borrower would be the Government of Malaysia.



- 31 -                                 ANNFX 1
MALAYSIA
SAPAHI-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
IBRD fiscal year                  FY84       FY85       FY86   I FY87        FY88
calendar year                   1983    1984        1985      1986       L98    1988
quarter                         341  2 3 4   1 2 3 4          2 34   1 2 3 4   1 2
Sabah Trunk Roads
Civil works
Tendering                    _
Bid evaluation
Contract award                    _
0.                                      Construction                                                                 _
Consultant services
Procurenent
Bid evaluation
iork supervision                                                            _
Sabah Agric. Access Roads
Engineering design
Procureaent of contracts
Road I
Road 2
Road 3
Road 4
Construction
Road I
Road 2                                   _                -       _
Road 3
Road 4
Supervision services                              -
Sabah SPWD Training
Consultant proposals
Contract negotiations           _
Recruit additional
local instructors
Fellowships
Training services                      -
Sarawak SNiD Training
Consultant proposals
Contract negotiations           _
Stage 1: Prep. services
Construction of training
center
Recruit local instructors
FelLowships
Procurenent of equipment
Stage 2: Training services
Sarawak Road Maintenance
Consultant proposals
Contract negotiations
Consultant services
Buildings & land dev.
Procurement of equipment
Sabah-Sarawak Road Transport
Review
Consultant proposals
Contract negotiations
Services
Sarawak Feasibility Studies
Consultant proposals
Contract negotiations
Services
National Ports Study
Consultant proposals
Contract negotiations
Services
___ Provision  for  time  over-run



-32 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Documents and Data in the Project File
A.  Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.  Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-1985 (Kuala Lumpur, 1981)
2. General Transport/Railway Study for Peninsular Malaysia (Canadian
Pacific Consulting Services Ltd., 1978)
3. Yearbook of Transport Statistics - Malaysia 1980 (Ministry of Transport,
Kuala Lumpur)
B.  Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. Sabah Rural Trunk Roads - Feasibility Study (Peter Fraenkel et al.,
L981)
2. Sabah Rural Trouk Roads - Detailed Engineering Report (Peter Fraenkel
et. al., 1982)
3.  Appraisal of the Sapi-Nangoh Penetration Road and Agricultural Invest-
ments in its Zone of Influence (Sabah SEPU, PWD, SLDB, September 1982)
4. Appraisal of the Lahad Datu-Bakapit Road (Sabah Sepu, PWD, SLDB.
September 1982)
5. Appraisal of the Merotai-Tawau Road (Sabah SEPU, PWD, SLDB, October
1982)
6. Sabah: Statistical Background for the Proposed Sabah-Sarawak Road
Project (Sabah, SEPU, 1982)
7. Sarawak: Statistical Background for the Proposed Sabah-Sarawak Road
Project (Sarawak SEPU, 1982)
8.  Sabah:  Road Maintenance and Upgrading Programs - Status (Sabah SPWD,
1982)
9. Sabah: Program of Technical Support Services to Assist the Department in
Staff Development and Training (Sabah SPWD, 1980)



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
10. Sarawak: Need for a Training Program for Mechanics and Plant Operators
(Sarawak SPWD, 1982)
11. Terms of Reference for the Project Consulting Services
12. Development of a Road System in Sarawak (Sarawak SPWD, 1982)
C. Working Papers
1. Sabah Agricultural Access Roads: Working Papers
2. Sarawak: Improvement of SPWD Training
3. Sabah: SPWD Equipment List, 1982
4. Sabah: SPWD Establishment, 1982
5. Sarawak: SPWD Equipment List, 1982
6. Sarawak: SPWD Establishment, 1982
7. Sabah Rural Trunk Roads: Economic Analysis
8. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis Calculations
9. Detailed Schedule for Project Implementation



- 34 -
ANNEX
Table 1
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Sabah: Highway Capital and Maintenance Expenditures
(in M$ million)
1982
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981  (Est.)
Capital Expenditures
Federal Funded
Trunk roads                  34.33   39.27   44.30  100.51   91.58  105.61   96.65  116.80
Agricultural roads            -       -        -        -       0.43    4.55   10.05   14.30
Subtotal                34.33   39.27   44.30  100.51   92.01  110.16  106.70  131.10
State Funded
Federal & rural roads        10.91    4.46   11.33   22.54   37.51   63.00   77.64   48.00
District 8 council roads    5.34    4.71    7.02    9.83   19.24   38.57   35.46    5.00
Urban roads                   6.29    3.68    6.52    7.78    9.68   20.76   38.80   44.00
Subtotal                22.54   12.85   24.87  140.15   66.43  122.33  151.90   97.00
Total                   56.87   52.12   69.17  140.66  158.44  232.49  258.60  228.10
Maintenance Expenditures /a
Road maintenance             18.82   22.49   21.78   28.06   32.67   36.24   43.45   52.00
Storm/flood damage
repairs                     0.16    0.43    5.40    2.61    4.27    5.55    9.91    5.00
Total                   18.98   22.98   27.18   30.65   36.94   41.79   53.36   57.00
/a  Include Federal and State funding.
Source: SPWD Sabah



-35 -                                         ANNEX
Table 2
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Sarawak: Highway Capital and Maintenance Expenditures
(in M$ million)
fb                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1982
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981  (Est.)
Capital Expenditures
Federal Funded
Trunk roads                  12.80   14.06   17.83   19.23   17.93   24.18   37.00   67.40
Feeder roads                  1.47    3.08    4.06    4.88    6.16    9.86    8.80   13 82
Subtotal                14.27   17.14   21.89   24.11   24.09   34.04   45.80   81.22
State Funded
Feeder roads                  5.42    4.07    4.88    5.86    7.88   10.60   12.00   14.70
Rural roads                   -       -        -        5.77    5.23    7.67    8.50   10.00
Subtotal                 5.42    4.07    4.88   11.63   13.11   18.33   20.50   24.70
Total                   19.69   21.21   26.77   35.74   37.20   52.37   66.30  105.92
Maintenance Expenditures /a
Total Expenditures        5.77    6.80    8.16   16.53   10.94   12.21   13.19   19.37
/a  Include Federal and State funding.
Source: SPWD Sarawak.



MALAYSIA
SABAIL-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Sabal Road Design Standards
Design class                       01              02              03                04                  05                     06
Traffic ADT                      below 50        50-200          200-500         500-1 O00          1,000-2,000           above 2,000
Pavement type                     gravel         gravel            DIIST           DBST         asphaltic concrete  asphaltic concrete
Pavement width (m)                 4.80           5.40             6.70            6.70                 7.30           7.30 single or dual
Reserve width (m)                 20-40          30-40              40              40                   40                     45
Terrain                       M    it   F    4    11    F    M    It   F    M    It   F              H    It    F          M    tl    F
Design speed (km/h)           30   50   60   30   50   60   50   65  100   50   80  100              65  100  100          65  100. 100
Maxiinuim gradient (%)        10    9    6   10    9    6    8    7    5    8    6    4               8    6    4            8    6    4    1
Critical length (m)          270  300  450  270  300  450  340  365  520  340  450  550             340  450  550         450  520  550
Shoulder (embankment) (m)  0.9  0.9  1.2  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.5               2.5  2.5  3.0         2.5  2.5  3.0    a%
Shoulder (cutting) (m)       0.6  0.6  1.2  0.9  0.9  1.5  1.0  1.5  2.0  1.0  2.0  2.5             1.2  2.5  3.0         1.2  2.5  3.0
Naximum surelevation (X)    10    8    6   10    8    6   10    8    6   10    6    6                 8    6    6            8    6    6
Minimum radius (m)             50  140  380   50  140  380   70  140  400   70  250  400            140  400  400          140  400  400
Note:
ADT  - average daily traffic
DBST - double bitumenous surface treatment
m    - meters
km/hi - kilometers per hour
M    - mountainous
11    - hilly
F    - flat
Source:  SPWD Sabah and Sabah Rural Trunk Roads Feasibility Study, C. Fraenkel 6 Associates.
I(D$
S~



- 37 -                                ANNEX
Table 4
MALAYSIA
SABAII-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Sarawak Road Design Standards
Road standard
General design data               Trunk        Feeder      Development  Rural
Design speed (mph)                50           30-40        30           30
Pavement width (ft)               24           14           14           14
Shoulders (ft)                    10          8             5            5
Camber to road                    1 in 38      1 in 30      1 in 30      1 in 30
Super Elevation
- Maximum                      1 in 12       1 in 12      1 in 12     -
- Minimum                      1 in 38       1 in 30      1 in 30      -
Horizontal curve radius
(ft) - Normal                  1,000        700          500           500
- Maximum                 750          500          300          150
Widening (according to)          MOT Tables  PWD Tables  PWD Tables  -
Maximum Gradient (X)
- Normal                        5           5            7             7
- Maximum                      7            10            10           10
Minimum vertical curve (ft)
(vision height 3 ft 9 in)
- Normal                     600          400           300          400
- Minimum                    400          300          -            250
Reserve width (ft)               150-300      99-132       99            66-99
Pavement type                    DBST or AC  DBST or        gravel       gravel
gravel
Side Drains
Width (ft)                     6            3            3            3
Depth (ft)                     3            2            2             2
Invert width (ft)              2            1.5          1.5           1.5
Berm (ft)                        2.5           1.5          1.5          1.5
Maximum slope of embankment    1-1.5           1-1.5        1-1.5        1-1.5
mph = miles per hour, ft = feet, in = inches,
DBST = double bitumetous surface treatment, AC = asphaltic concrete.
in
Source: SPWD Sarawak.



- 38 -                      ANNEX
Table 5
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD                                          Regional
Fiscal         Cumulative                    disbursements
year &        disbursements                profile (highways)
semester       (US$ million)         %              ()
1984
1st              1,000            1                2
2nd              9,000           10                7
1985
1st             16,500           19               14
2nd             26,000           30               23
1986
1st             36,000           42               32
2nd             47,000           54               43
1987
1st             57,000           66               53
2nd             67,000           78               62
1988
1st             73,000           85               71
2nd             79,000           92               78
1989
1st             83,000           96               85
2nd /a          86,220          100               90
94
96
100
/a Closing Date - June 30, 1989.



MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Sandakan-Telupid Road
Traffic Forecast
1980-2005
Link A-101                      Link A-102                   Traffic growth rates (%)
1980   1986   1995   2005    1980   1986   1995   2005            1980/84   1985/94   199572005
(ADT)                            (ADT)
Private Cars                                                                                  10        12.5         7.5
Normal                   37      69    191    394        14      26     73    151
Generated                 -      14     38      79        -       5     15      30
Pick-ups                                                                                       10        12.5        7.5
Normal                   37      69    191    394        21      39    107    220
Generated                 -      14     38      79        -       8     21      44
Jeeps                                                                                          10         7.5        5.0
Normal                   68    115    216    352         60    101    188    307
Medium Trucks                                                                                  10        10.5        7.5
Normal                  142    251    579  1,194        141    249    575  1,185
Logging Trucks                                                                                 Constant from 1980-1990
Normal                    -       -      -       -       40      40      -       -
Total             284    532  1,253  2,49.2        276    468    979  1,937
Source:  Sabah PWD



MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJEC1
Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road
Traffic Forecast
1980-2005
Link B-201                     Link B-202                      Link B-203                      Link B-204                Traffic growth rates (Z)
1980    1986   1995   2005   1980   1986   1995   2005   1980   1986   1995   2005   1980   1986   1995   2005   1980/84  1985/94  1995/2005
(ADT)                           (ADT)                       (ADT)                              (ADT)
Private Cars                                                                                                                                            10.0    12.5        7.5
Normal              106    196    540  1,112         60    112    309    637         69    128    354    730    257    477  1,316  2,711
Generated             -      39    108    222         -      22      62    127        -      26     71    146        -      95    263      542
Pick-ups                                                                                                                                                10.0    12.5        7.5
Normal               54    100    275    568         40      75    208    429        14      82    225    463       62    114    315       649
Generated             -      20      55    114        -      15      42      86       -      15     45      93       -      23      63    130
Jeeps                                                                                                                                                   10.0      7.5        5.0         C
Normal               89    151    282    460         41      69    129    210        63    106    199    324    150    253    474          772
Trucks                                                                                                                                                  10.0    10.0         7.5
Normal              109    193    445    916         65    115    265    546         76    13'.    3'0    639    186    329        759  1,564
Total         358    699  1,705  3,392        206    408  1,015  2,035        252    492  1,204  2,395    655  1,291  3,190  6,368
Source: Sabah PWD



- 41 -
ANNEX
Table 8
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Road Improvements: Net Benefit Streams
(M$ 000)
Trunk roads           Agricultural access roads
Sandakan-  Lahad Datu-  Tawau-   Lahad Datu-  Sapi-
Telupid    Sandakan    Merotai   Bakapit          Nangoh
Year    road         road         road         road        road      Total
1   -21,774    -21,564         -6,025      -5,091    - 7,046  -61,500
2   -30,956    -30,190         -6,025      -5,091    - 6,222  -78,484
3   -30,956    -30,190         -6,025      -5,091    -11,839  -93,100
4     7,561        3,842        3,469       1,560    -15,740         692
5    13,204        8,974        3,643       1,765    - 5,205   22,381
6    14,341        9,892        3,823       1,980           58   30,094
7    15,989       13,410        4,014       2,204          718   35,835
8    16,955       12,001        2,816       2,432       2,252   36,456
9    17,047       13,225        4,425       2,649       4,719   42,065
10    19,847       14,334        4,646       2,883       4,427   46,137
11    21,282       14,527        4,878       3,131        8,572   52,390
12    20,983       17,784        5,123       3,396      10,744   57,940
13    24,118       20,754        3,980       3,669      12,616   65,137
14    25,619       20,283        5,646       3,932      14,398   69,878
15    25,578       21,443        5,929       4,222      14,836   72,008
16    31,437       23,421        6,225       4,521      15,037   80,641
17    31,618       17,719        6,538       4,815      14,910   75,660
18    27,754       26,602        6,466       5,126      16,622   80,570
19    36,187       28,400        7,208       5,448      15,811   93,054
20    38,739       30,382        7,569       5,805      15,178   97,673
21    43,349       33,028        7,946       6,188      14,462  104,973
22    44,368       35,002        8,344       6,589      13,995  108,298
23    47,515       38,295        7,365       7,035       13,432  113,642
ERR       17.6        13.2         19.1         15.1        11.7      15.0
Source: Government and Mission



- 42 -
ANNEX
Tables
Table 9
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Sandakan-Telupid Road: Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates
(M$ per km)
Existing         Improved            VOC
road             road            savings
Private cars                     0.616            0.359             0.257
Pickups                          0.942             0.617            0.325
Jeeps                            1.164             0.636            0.428
Medium trucks                    1.543             0.996            0.547
Logging trucks                   3.647             2.272            1.375
Table 10
Sandakan-Telupid Road: Total Maintenance Cost
Savings, 1983-2005
(M$ million)
Link A-101         Link A-102        Total
5,892              7,975         13,867
Tables 9 and 10 source: SPWD Sabah and Sabah Rural Trunk Roads
Feasibility Study.



- 43 -
ANNEX
Tables
Table 11
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road: Vehicle Operating
*                                        Cost Estimates
(M$ per km)
Existing     Improved        VOC
road         road        savings
Private cars                   0.597         0.357         0.240
Pickups                        0.879         0.615         0.264
Jeeps                           1.093        0.635         0.458
Medium trucks                   1.496        0.971         0.525
Table 12
Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road:
Total Maintenance Cost Savings, 1983-2005
(M$ million)
B-201     B-202      B-203     B-204      Total
3,041     3,704      6,038     1,628      14,411
Tables 11 and 12 Source: SPWD Sabah and Sabah Rural Trunk
Roads Feasibility Study.



- 44 -
ANNEX
Table 13
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Estimated Revenue from Road User Charges, 1977-1981
US$ million
1977             1978              1979              1980              1981         4
Sabah Sarawak Sabah Sarawak Sabah Sarawak Sabah Sarawak Sabah Sarawak
Petroleum
Import duty       18.6      8.3    14.5       8.0    15.8      9.5    19.4    11.3       19.5    n.a.
Excise tax          6.0     9.6    13.1    13.8    15.5    16.8    17.1    19.1          17.2    n.a.
Vehicle
registration
and other fees   12.6       8.8    14.4    10.4    17.8    11.1    20.1    14.6    23.4    n.a.
Total           37.2    26.7    42.0    32.2    49.1    37.4    56.6    45.0    60.1             -
Source:  Sabah and Sarawak SEPU.



- 45 -
ANNEX
Table 14
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Diesel and Petrol Prices, 1975-1980
Petrol
Diesel                 Premium                  Regular
Effective date of   per gallon  per liter  per gallon  per liter  per gallon  per liter
price             (M$)      (M cents)      (M$)      (M cents)      (M$)      (M cents)
Before February 1976    1.00           _           3.10          _          2.65          -
February 1976             1.18         -           3.38          -          3.00          -
June 1979                 1.20         -           3.48          -          3.10          -
August 1979               1.30        28.6         3.69         81.2        3.35         73.7
April 1980                1.62        35.6         4.04         88.9        3.82         84.0
August 1980               1.80        39.6         4.63        102.0        4.40         97.0
Source: Highway Planning Unit, Ministry of Works and Utilities.



- 46 -
MALAYSIA
SABAH SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
State of Sabah
Organization of Public Works Department
D[2EC7OR
IE~D        rIEADQUARTERS                               CONSTRTUCTON
V                                                                                             TESAMS
OTHER PWD                       ROAD                    AADMINIST9ATIONY
ACTIVITES                   MAINTENANCE                                                                        PROJEC'
WEST COAST      With 6 Distncts &        ROADS & AiRFIELDS
_         SOUTH        WNorkshop Centerat                                                        _        PRO F
DVISION       Kota Kinoanalu
WEST COAST   1  With 4 Districts &           B
-   ,       , NORTH     Workshop Center 0o
DVISION       Kota Belud
_                      ~~~~~~~DESIGN &
INVESTIGATIONS   _
SADAA    Wth 4 Districts &
_       SANDAV AN       Workshop Center ao          MECHANICAL
DflVISION  Sandakan                                 2
TAWAU         With 4 Distrcts &
...      DNIVSION       Workshop Center t         QUANTITY SURVE    _
INTERIOR      With 3 Districts &
~~:  C 1/ * ON     Workshop Ceter it          ACUT
Df\/ISION       J  ennga        at
INTFRNAL AUDITING



LWM LEAWAK ROAD PROJECT
UWu d Somak
/O,on d PqbIc Woaf DspoWvt
GASCAS  EAEC)ACAA  A.CCOrfDAT  e-_-.                    - -AS -AG -GA--&A-S                                                                                                                 a ..-----
1   Scne  |   ACCCEMS  |   | 8NSRA;;71    |   a>Nn>    I   I eaJ<,baORKS I                           I       's j    I                                                                     |S  S  GSA(SAGS                        SAS*AA*TSAOs   |      IIAWwca6SG1
I        I   I                              Il w              I                                           .       1                   1        '  1                           .1r I 1
APOAGACI                ASACANCA6  A      MACARS            MAIAT             IAVC              S          XeCS  A  1A1 A A1 MPC GA            e9Gc az AA   IS        I   sAAC A     I AC  ASI   I       MAtC    ICT I         AAIA          MSCU,AI



l



IBRD  16938R
110ff51401W                                                                                                                           1 1R4.                                                                         APRIL 1R83
MALAYSiA                                                                                                        t
SABAH SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
PROJE5C DUAL) LC~OiN5TRSCTION AND REHADIL ITATION,                                                                                7         -4
TRUNK ROADS                                                                                                            /"                     4"
AGRICULTURAL ACCESS5 ROADS                                             ~'   eoR d    S-pepryr
____   OADS                                                                                                             lC
I'                                           ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~RAILWAY  w e
8' .                     *                         Al RPORTS                                                                                             Keel\ \ \ \ \ ;                       ) 0 K \ 2 i i  3 7    ; neauA R   E.. , r
INTERNA`iONA!L ROUNDARIRS                                                                                Pa.lo          ,                                      aedakee
4V~ ~ ~~~~~~~I SIGN ORa\x IsSGEC ROUNDAPIE                                                                                           I9  -o<                                                  )                     
SA BAH                Laa
I    \   Ne   -   X         j--  te                          d                                   ---Eet~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-,<  tSESE aaulre   ee Il/a
_                             f   f                     W      :   V       ,.          i              ,,        /                                             S      ;   0                      >Ed  , T   t , ,  , i , I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sple n 
& <1! E -4N                                                                                                                                    >                                               uv J5RI ana --  J  4- a Ga  Rakapla
s   I     0                                    ;<> a f  t        X     /   r    -                f            S  RAWAK                J                                      ,;:O 40   AK  120    150r,50   4t ofiCh b *o 'r01
j  e   ,                                 <                            KalJ t                ~                   X                                          X 5::: i-   7  >KILv eWTM A  --  I                      E IIL\P/INEe ,-, '
raft  or >19 -Al ']'                   '.-"')  ,'N-t,k '  - - -- -   1  T L                 'T.'
<   ~/2 \<z                                                                NDONES A   X                                                                     i ;2i 
''                                      S                                                            4      X                ,         /   MALAYSl  /          .,
< 1 10  I 1 2  I , 40 .                         , O             S JMA TeRA    ll-N  t  O  N  E  E i t ^            F / I MANTAN A
h.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
I  N   D   0   N   E  S   I  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  OoR aRSOR loeaeI
iio-                       112.                                          114-                                         116.                                   a                                  - TI '-.    -  c  elala  c N o  aPpdRp



