Document of                               C
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3450-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$86.22 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
May 9, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981    October 1982
Currency Unit  =  Ringgit (MS)    Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00         =  M$2.30            M$2.30
M$1.O0          =  US$0.435          US$0.435
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
MEASITRES AND EQUJIVALENTS
1 foot (ft)                   0.3048 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                   1.6094 kilometers (kn)
1 square mile (sq mi)        2.59 square kilometers (sq kin)
2.204 lbs                =   1 metric ton (mi ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT        =  Average Daily Traffic
EPU        =  Federal Economic Planning Unit
ERR        =  Economic Rate of Return
FELDA      =  Federal Land Development Authority
FPWD       =  Federal Public Works Department
FM1P       =  Fourth Malaysia Plan
GDP        =  Gross Domestic Product
LNG        =  Liquified Natural Gas
MAS        =  Malaysian Airlines System
MRCU       =  Mechanized Road Construction Unit
PM         =  Peninsular Malaysia
SAFODA    =  Sahah Forest Development Authority
SLDB       =  Sahah Land Development Board
STOL       =  Short Take-Off and Landing Aircraft
SDO        =  State Development Office
SEPU       =  State Economic Planning Unit
SPU3D      =  State Public Works Department
vpd        =  Vehicles Per Day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Government of Malaysia
Beneficiaries:    States of Sabah and Sarawak
Amount:             US$86.22 million (including the capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    The project would provide for construction and improvement
of rural roads to support agricultural and agro-industrial
developments; to strengthen road maintenance in the Sarawak
Public Works Department; and to assist the Federal and
the two State Governments in their efforts to improve
transport planning and staff training.
The project consists of: (a) road improvements in Sabah
comprising construction and upgrading of 192 km rural
trunk roads and of about 100 km agricultural access roads;
(b) staff training in the Sabah and Sarawak Public Works
Departments; (c) strengthening the Sarawak PWD road
maintenance organization; (d) a road transport review in
Sabah and Sarawak and road studies in Sarawak; and (e) a
national ports study covering the whole of Malaysia.
There are no unusual risks associated with the project.
To avoid delay in availability of right of way, the land
acquisition procedure was started in 1982. The prequali-
fication of contractors, another cause for possible delay,
was launched in 1982 and there was wide expression of
interest among foreign and domestic contractors promising
keen competition for the proposed road construction
contracts.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated                                                     Local  Foreign  Total
Costs _a:                                                  ----(US$ million)----
Construction and supervision of road
improvements in Sahah                   40.77   53.44   94.21
Sabah PIJD training                        1.04    2.27    3.31
Sarawak PUD training                       1.93    3.30    5.23
Sarawak maintenance                        1.29    2.48    3.77
Road transport review for Sabah and
Sarawak                                  0.30    0.70    1.00
Sarawak road feasibility studies           0.19    0.46    0.65
National Ports study                       0.60    1.40    2.00
Base Cost                               46.12   64.05  110.17
Physical contingencies                     4.61    6.41   11.02
Expected price increases                  11.16   15.54   26.70
Total Project Cost                      61.89   86.00  147.89
Front-end fee on Bank loan                    -    0.22    0.22
Total Financing Required                61.89   86.22  148.11
Financing Plan:
61.89       -   61.89
Government                                    -   86.22   86.22
Bank
Total                                   61.89   86.22  148.11
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY               1984   1985   1986   1987  1988   1989
Annual               9.0   17.0   21.0   20.0  12.0    7.2
Curulative           9.0   26.0   47.0   67.0  79.0   86.22
Rate of Return:   15% (covering 86% of an estimated base project cost of
US$110.2 million)
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 4296-MA, dated May 9, 1983
Map:               IBRD No. 16938
/a Including taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$86.22 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Sabah-Sarawak Road Project.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The latest economic report "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA) is dated October 14, 1977.  In July 1980,
a book, written at the request of the government and entitled "Malaysia:
Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society" was published.  This section
contains information gathered in a recent (July 1982) updating mission; a
new economic report has been prepared and will shortly be forwarded to the
Government for discussion.
3.         By most economic indicators, Malaysia-s economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,680 in 1981 is
among the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP
growth has averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per
capita growth achieved in the Sixties. This sustained good performance was a
reflection of several factors including the country-s wealth in natural
resources, especially ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; good economic and financial management; and, not least,
stable social and political institutions. Three specific elements have been
important: first, substantial attention and priority has been given to
agriculture resulting in high productivity gains in the sector, which have
cushioned against occasional steep price declines; second, manufacturing
growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a. in the last two decades, following
first an import substituting pattern, but later increasingly oriented
towards exports; third, in a very open economy with exports and imports
averaging 49% of GDP (1970-80), exports have diversified from an initial
large dependence on rubber and tin to include palm oil, petroleum and
manufactured goods.
4.         Malaysia is a multiracial lociety with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income
between ethnic communities and has also been struggling with a serious
poverty problem. In 1970, about half the households in the country had
insufficient incomes to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter,
clothing and other basic needs. This poverty has been concentrated among
agricultural families, which are predominantly Malay. In 1971, the govern-
ment declared a New Economic Policy (NEP) and accorded the highest priority



- 2 -
to eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalance in income, employ-
ment and the ownership of assets. More specifically, it was targeted that
by 1990 the incidence of poverty would be reduced to 16.7% of households,
and that the share of Bumiputera /1 in the ownership of the corporate sector
will increase from about 4% in 1970 to at least 30%.  These intentions serve
as the fundamental policy objectives of government. In the mid-term of this
program, substantial progress has been made. By 1980, the incidence of
poverty had declined to about 29% of all households and there were 125,000
fewer poor households than in 1970. The Bumiputera share of corporate
assets increased from 4.3% in 1971 to an estimated 12.4% in 1980, whilst the
Chinese community achieved their target 40% share in 1980, some ten years
ahead of schedule. Over the same period, there were significant changes in
the distribution of employment in line with the restructuring objective that
employment in all sectors and at all levels reflects the racial composition
of the country.
5.        The government's overall strategy of pursuing high growth, along
with a series of direct interventions have been instrumental in this fast
pace of achievement of the NEP objectives. In particular over the last
decade, the rapid opening of income and employment opportunities in the
modern sector, where productivity and wages are much higher than in agri-
culture, successfully channelled the flows of labor market entrants into
positions where they did not become, or remain poor. Simultaneously, this
reduced the pressure of population on the agricultural base. Thus, only 14%
of the net addition to the labor force between 1970 and 1980 was accounted
for by new agricultural employment, in contrast to the previous decade where
35% of all new jobs were found in agriculture. At the same time, high labor
demand facilitated the penetration by Malays into occupations and sectors in
which they were previously under-represented, as well as fostered Malay
mobility into the more senior levels of occupations. In addition,
restructuring corporate asset ownership was made easier by the rapid
economy-wide growth, where redistribution could occur from the increments to
national wealth rather than from existing stocks. Direct interventions by
the government, however, also proved important in the progress toward
achieving the NEP objectives. These were particularly extensive in
agriculture, including new land development and farmer resettlement, major
irrigation schemes, technical and financial support for rubber replanting,
extension and marketing assistance, and selective subsidy programs. The
success of many of these programs is attested to by the fact that
smallholder productivity over a range of products increased significantly
during the decade, with a positive impact on farm income and reduction of
poverty. The government also directly intervened to achieve the asset
redistribution target. Because the volume of Malay savings is relatively
small, as may be expected with lower average Malay incomes, substantial
amounts of corporate equities were purchased by the government to be held
"in trust" for the Bumiputera community. Recently a scheme has been
developed to divest these government holdings to individual Malays.
/1 "Bumiputera" literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to
refer to Malays and other indigenous groups.



6.        Against this broad background of progress, the economy was
undergoing some important structural changes. Industry replaced agriculture
as the major contributor to GDP and manufactured exports replaced import
substitution as the cutting edge of industrial growth. As noted, the
composition of exports changed from a rather narrow to a much more
diversified set of commodities. This diversification has proved important
as two of Malaysia's major foreign exchange earners - timber and tin show
signs of flagging vitality. In the case of timber, exploitation of the
resource has led to detrimental environmental consequences and the government
has now established a Forest Conservation Policy which will limit, in effect,
the quantum of exports. In the case of tin, increasing costs of extraction
and the exhaustion of many mines have resulted in declining export volumes.
But perhaps the most important ongoing change in the economy's structure is
the diminishing retention of labor in the rural areas, such that it is
expected that the agricultural labor force may soon peak before declining in
absolute numbers. Whilst plentiful evidence points to selective processes at
work fostering this outcome, the precise turning point is not easy to predict
as much depends on the rate of growth of and the pace at which labor can be
absorbed in the modern sector. Nonetheless, some of the symptoms of this
change including accelerating migration of the young and educated from the
farms to the towns, more visible "shortages" of semi-skilled agricultural
laborers and an increasing incidence of idle and abandoned land suggest that
future problems of agriculture and poverty in Malaysia may differ in important
respects from those of the past. The poverty problem is likely to be
increasingly characterized as one of aging, elderly farmers, unable to adjust
fully to loss of family labor, with consequent reduction in their farm output.
The great importance of agriculture to the Malaysian economy both in terms of
its contribution to GDP as well as its role as a major earner of foreign
exchange - makes it important to devise policies which maintain the agricul-
tural resource base, improve land/man ratios, augment agricultural labor
productivity and incomes, and improve, through social interventions, the
standard of living in the rural areas. Mindful of these challenges the
government is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of agricultural
strategy and policies, with the intention of announcing a National
Agricultural Policy in the near future.
7.        Whilst, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional difficulty.
This is true of the very recent period where Malaysia has been particularly
affected by downturns in the prices of major export commodities. Between 1977
and 1980 prices for palm oil, rubber, timber and petroleum increased rapidly
and export receipts nearly doubled. The terms of trade improved by 15% in the
same period and real national income increased by more than 10% p.a. Since
1980, however, prices for rubber and tin have fallen rapidly, followed by
declines in the prices of palm oil and timber. The terms of trade losses in
1981 amounted to about 17%, with a consequent strong negative impact on gross
national income and savings. In part due to the recession in the OECD
countries, petroleum and manufacturing export volumes have declined. Somewhat
expansionary, contracyclical fiscal and monetary policies have been applied
to cushion the impact of terms of trade imposed losses in real income and to



-4-
maintain the momentum of growth. In combination, these elements have led to
sharp deterioration in the current account of the balance of payments from an
average surplus of about 4% of GNP in 1977-80 to a deficit of about 10% in
1981 and 15% in 1982. Net reserves declined from about 4 months import
coverage in 1980 to approximately 2 1/2 months at the end of 1982. Inflation,
as measured by the Consumer Price Index, increased from an average of 5% in
1976-80 to about 10% in 1981, before declining to about 6% in 1982.
8.        In the very short run, Malaysia should not find it difficult to
weather external deficits of this magnitude. The country has rarely run large
balance of payments deficits with the result that its external indebtedness is
relatively low, and in recent years, the debt service ratio has averaged about
5%. The country's creditworthiness ratings have been, therefore, excellent.
Over the medium term, however, very large deficits will not prove sustainable.
Some relief on the export side may, however, be expected as recovery from the
international recession should improve major commodity prices and restore some
of the dynamism of Malaysia's manufacturing export growth; additional foreign
exchange will be earned as the country begins to export LNG (liquified natural
gas), starting this year. At the same time, a more appropriate balance
between national expenditures and national income will need to be restored.
The "boom" years of 1977-80 substantially raised the investment ratio to GDP
as well as facilitated very high import growth. Close surveillance over the
level and growth of public expenditures, of the efficiency of public
investment, and of the size and sources of financing for the public deficit
will need to be exercised. In the longer term, the economy will no longer be
able to rely so heavily on the rapid growth of primary commodities. Whilst
Malaysia is rich in natural resources, which will provide a reliable base for
the expansion of the economy, the growth rates of the production of such
commodities as rubber, palm oil, petroleum and forest products are all likely
to be lower than in the past. With growth decelerating in the resource
sector, continued rapid industrial growth will increasingly become essential
to successful economic performance. This imperative arises not only from the
viewpoint of production, and the creation of real incomes, but also from the
viewpoint of achieving the NEP targets. Sustained rapid growth in
manufacturing will have to rely increasingly on export expansion and there is
additional scope for efficient import substitution. Policies will, therefore,
have to ensure a favorable manufacturing environment. The Government is
presently undertaking a series of studies to serve as the basis for the
reformulation of industrial and export incentives.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery over the
medium term, continued expenditure restraint by the government, and an
improved incentive structure for exports, the current account deficit should,
relative to GNP, decline from 1983 onwards and reach sustainable levels
thereafter. Under this scenario, Malaysia will continue to enjoy a high, but
slightly lower GDP growth over the next few years. With the heavy borrowing
recently undertaken the debt service ratio will increase from its average 5%
of exports in 1977-80 but should stabilize at an acceptable level later in the
decade. At end-1981 about 13% of external debt outstanding and disbursed was
from the World Bank. These percentanges are expected to remain unchanged by



- 5 -
1990. The Bank share of debt service is currently about 8% and, again, is
expected to remain unchanged by 1990.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
10.       The Bank has to date made 55 loans to Malaysia, totalling
$1,457.84 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and
urban transport. As of March 31, 1983, the effective loans to Malaysia held
by the Bank amounted to $1,228.07 million of which $29.1 million were loans
exclusively in the State of Sabah (Sabah Ports I, Loan No. 774-MA, and Sabah
Ports II, Loan No. 1580-MA). In addition, there are eight projects in
Malaysia which have components in both Sabah and Sarawak in agriculture,
education, population and transport sectors. Twenty-five loans have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC
investments, as well as notes on the execution of projects under
implementation.
11.       In view of Malaysia's proven capability to prepare and implement
traditional infrastructure projects independently, the Bank's present lend-
ing strategy in the country is to support the Government-s programs to
combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in
the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide
financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to help the Government
develop a suitable institutional and policy framework for antipoverty
programs. With this in mind, the Bank has proposed to undertake projects
with relevant institutions, such as, the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA), and area and state development agencies in
the poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their experience in the
designing of projects and serve as a basis for building managerial and
technical skills within these institutions. Technical assistance of this
nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be the most effective
way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian development at present.
12.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising
incomes and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural
households, greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to
raise productivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural
development projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is
impressive. Eleven rural development projects were financed in the last
five years, which include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems,
rehabilitation of tree crops, national extension and research. At least
eight additional rural development projects have been identified for
possible Bank support in the next few years.



-6 -
13.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more heavily
on technical and skill training. It is also seeking new initiatives in
providing support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in
promoting the growth of small-scale industries in order to enable the
Government to realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives.
Assistance to infrastructure in future will be selective, concentrating on
providing access to rural areas to promote agricultural development. The
Sabah-Sarawak road project is in conformity with this approach of providing
selective assistance to infrastructure. Other infrastructure-related projects
to be supported by the Bank will involve rural electrification.
14.       Overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in Malaysia has
been satisfactory. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of cumulative
disbursements to cumulative commitments from FY76 to FY82 displays a pattern
of continuous improvement over the six-year period. The ratio of actual
disbursements in relation to undisbursed amounts for FY81-82 also shows an
improvement over the FY77-80 period. The average ratio for FY81-82 is 18.7,
while the average ratio for FY77-80 is 13.6. Overall disbursements of
$94.3 million in FY81 represented a 38% improvement over the FY80 figure of
$68.1 million. Similarly, for FY82, overall disbursements amounted to
$110.9 million, some $16.6 million over FY81, and represent a 17.6%
improvement.
15.       Malaysia's disbursement rate for FY82 was 19.9%, slightly lower than
the Bank-wide average of 23.9% and substantially lower than the 26.6% average
for other countries in the Region. Disbursement rates for two comparator
countries, Brazil and Mexico, were 16% and 23.8%, respectively. The major
problems causing disbursement delays in Malaysia are: delays in project
start-up due to manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition
procedures; limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local
contracting industry. To improve the situation, the Bank carried out its
first project implementation review in collaboration with the implementing
agencies in May 1982. Further reviews will be undertaken periodically with a
view to improving the overall implementation of projects, which should have a
positive impact on disbursements. It is also proposed to reinforce the
implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements and
procurement (a disbursement seminar was arranged in June 1982 and a
procurement seminar was conducted in March 1983, both in Kuala Lumpur) for the
benefit of the implementing agencies.
16.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of March 31, 1983, amounted to
$1.14 million (Annex II).
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
17.       The states of Sabah and Sarawak contain about 60% of the land
surface of Malaysia, respectively 74,000 sq km and 128,000 sq km out of the



- 7 -
total 337,000 sq km, but only about 17% of population, respectively 1,000,000
and 1,200,000 out of the total 13,000,000. Most of the production in the
States comes from exploitation of natural resources: timber, oil, gas.
Although about 60% of population is engaged in agriculture, both states show
large imports of food. The industrial sector is less developed than in
Peninsular Malaysia. The agricultural and agroindustrial potential is
considerable, but is constrained by poor road communications and shortage of
skilled and experienced labor.
18.       Road transport in Sabah and Sarawak is hampered by terrain,
vegetation and climate. Mountains, rivers and swamps have kept the highway
network fragmented and there is still no overland connnection between the
two States. Maritime transport connects coastal points; river transport is
extensively used, especially in Sarawak, and air transport caters for long
distance passenger traffic. Roads primarily serve areas close to towns.
The completion of an all-weather trunk road system and a network of feeder
roads penetrating into the rural areas is a pressing need for both Sabah and
Sarawak which regard rural development as the principal means for improving
the standard of living of the largest number of their population.
Railways
19.       Sarawak has no railways.  The 96-mile long Sabah State Railway (SSR)
runs from Kota Kinabalu, south to Beaufort and east to Tenom, inside the
Crocker Range. From Beaufort to Tenom, the railway provides the only
all-weather access and this service must continue because the difficult
terrain between the coast and the logging areas in the interior makes any road
connection prohibitively expensive. Freight traffic has been decreasing in
recent years, but passenger traffic has been increasing and currently
contributes about two thirds of all railway revenues. Even so, the recent
completion of a paved road between Kota Kinabalu, Papar and Beaufort has been
diverting passengers to the road and the Government has phased out railway
passenger service between Kota Kinabalu and Beaufort so as to reduce the
railway operating deficit that has been reaching about US$2 million annually.
Maritime Transport
20.       The shortcomings of the all-weather road network account for the
great number of ports and anchorages. When the trunk road network is
completed, port activity will most likely concentrate in Kota Kinabalu,
Sandakan, Tawau, Labuan and Sapangar Bay (Sabah) and in Kuching, Miri, Sibu
and Bintulu (Sarawak). Sabah ports handled a total of 600,000 tons in 1970
and 2.8 million tons in 1980. For Sarawak, the corresponding figures were
1.6 million and 2.9 million respectively. Over the same period, maritime
transport between Peninsular Malaysia and the two Borneo States increased from
800,000 to 1.4 million tons. Between 1975 and 1980, significant improvements
have been made to the port facilities of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan, Bintulu,
Kuching and Sibu. Projections in the Fourth Malaysia Plan show that between
1981 and 1985 total cargo in Sabah will increase from 2.8 to 4.9 million tons



- 8 -
and in Sarawak from 2.9 to 6.5 million tons. This increase will require
further improvements in the port facilities of Sepangar Bay, Tawau, Kota
Kinabalu, Sandakan, Bintulu and Kuching. Major ports are adequately serviced
by international shipping companies while a large fleet of domestically-owned
vessels service the smaller ports and anchorages. Port improvements have been
made throughout Malaysia over the past few years and the need for further
improvements is envisaged. The time is ripe to consider port needs for the
country as a whole and to examine port investments in conjunction with
measures to improve efficiency in harbor operations.
Air Transport
21.       Both Sabah and Sarawak depend heavily on air transport for passenger
movements, and traffic volumes increased dramatically between 1970 and 1980.
The Malaysian Airlines System (MAS) offers daily services among Kuala Lumpur,
Kota Kinabalu and Kuching while foreign carriers operate direct routes
betweeen Sabah, Sarawak, Singapore, Manila and Hongkong. MAS continues to
give priority to internal air services in Sabah and Sarawak and the number of
airports with regular service increased from 17 in 1972 to 25 in 1982. In the
late 1970s extensions and improvements were carried out to the airports of
Kota Kinabalu, Kuching, Sandakan and Bintulu. Over the 1981-85 period, air
passenger and air cargo traffic are expected to increase by 10% and 15%
respectively and further improvements are underway at the airports of
Sandakan, Kota Kinabalu, Sibu, Bintulu, Limbang and Kuching. Rural air
services in Sabah and Sarawak will be expanded by providing more rural
airfields and by introducing bigger aircraft.
Transport Planning
22.       Until recently, transport planning in Sabah and Sarawak was limited
and left to the discretion of individual ministries dealing with the
individual modes. The State Public Works Departments (SPWD) were responsible
for roads which were built where needed. Inadequate planning led to using
available funds to secure maximum lengths rather than constructing fewer roads
to sounder standards. The creation of State Development Offices (SDO) in
Sabah and Sarawak has improved interministerial collaboration but fully
integrated transport planning remains a future goal: lack of personnel
experienced in planning, implementation and monitoring may be expected to
prevail during the immediate future.
Highway Network and Road Usage
23.       In Sabah, the total road network comprises 5,370 km (of which 31%
are paved) and in Sarawak 3,170 km (of which 25% are paved). These percent-
ages are inferior to that of Peninsular Malaysia where 86% of the classified
network are paved. In Sarawak, prior to 1958 there were only 130 km of roads,
located around the larger towns, while in Sabah most of the roads were
initially built as private roads to serve logging and plantation interests.



- 9 -
Thus, networks are far from complete.  It is only now that in Sarawak the road
joining Kuching with Sibu, Bintulu and Miri is being built.  In Sabah, the
eastern and western parts of the State are not yet connected with an
all-weather road. Besides being fragmented, this network is of poor quality:
long stretches of road are difficult to pass during the rainy season and high
maintenance expenditures have to be incurred before roads are opened again to
traffic.
24.       Despite the poor road network, the number of motor vehicles in Sabah
grew from 35,000 in 1970 to 136,000 in 1981, with cars accountinR for 51% of
the total. For Sarawak, the increase was from 68,000 to 128,000, with cars
being 44% of the total. Most of the vehicle fleet is located in and near the
major urban centers (Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan, Tawau, Kuching, Sihu, Miri) and
traffic volumes on paved section of the trunk network reach about 1,000 vehi-
cles per day (vpd) in the rural areas and several times that in the immediate
vicinity of towns. On gravel roads, traffic densities range from 50 to
500 vpd. Road passenger transport services are generally adequate. However,
in view of the poor quality of most roads, freight rates fluctuate and are
usually established by negotiation. User charges in both states produce
enough revenue to cover maintenance expenditures, but it is doubtful whether
each class of vehicle pays its fair share. The Government is aware of the
importance of such issues and proposes to take remedial measures.
Highway Administration and Planning
25.       The Sabah and Sarawak State Public Works Departments (SPWDs) are
responsible for highway construction and maintenance. SPWVDs are assisted in
highway planning by the SDOs of Sabah and Sarawak but SDOs and SEPUs alike are
understaffed in relation to their respective responsibilities. This leads to
limited attention being devoted to policy issues such as vehicle registration
and regulation, pricing policy, and cost recovery. Staff shortages are
expected to continue in the near future and consultant services for opera-
tional tasks such as planning, designing and executing major road projects
will continue to be necessary for the next few years.
Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
26.       In Sabah, feasibility studies and engineering design are carried out
mainly by consultants. Road design standards, patterned on the federal
standards, are satisfactory. Construction is carried out by foreign and local
contractors and by force account. Contracts for large projects are usually
entrusted to foreign contractors but the local construction industry (virtual-
ly non-existent ten years ago) is steadily growing. At present, five local
contractors with adequate equipment, good organization and a total annual
output of about M$50 million are working on roads, while a number of smaller
contractors undertake works of about M$20 million per year relating to road
upgrading and resurfacing. The main problem of the construction sector is
shortage of qualified technical staff and labor and this invites substantial
immigration, now numbering about 80,000, from Indonesia and the Philippines.
Force account operations are carried out by construction units under SPWD



- 10 -
control and provide the flexibility needed for urgent and remote works. The
annual output of all force account operations is about M$80 million and
construction units are adequately supplied with equipment. Supervision of
works and administration of contracts are satisfactorily carried out by
consultants on behalf of the SPWD. Road maintenance has been strengthened
with consultant assistance through the Bank-financed Third Highways Project
(Ln. 1376-MA).
27.       In Sarawak, design of roads and medium-size bridges is largely
carried out by SPWD in-house. Large bridges are designed by foreign
consultants and road feasibility studies financed by external aid are carried
out by consultants of the donor country. Local consultant capacity is
extremely limited, design standards are not yet fully finalized, and staged
construction is the rule. Construction is carried out almost exclusively by
the SPWD's 14 Mechanized Road Construction Units (MRCUs) whose 1981 output
totalled about M$ 110 million. Construction of large bridges is by foreign
contractors while smaller bridges and culverts are usually built by local
contractors. The Government is planning to curtail SPWD-s involvement in
road construction and undertake such work increasingly by contract since this
would release some MRCU equipment and manpower for road maintenance. This
shift in emphasis is necessary; so far, there is no clear separation between
road construction and maintenance in Sarawak. An executive engineer of the
SPWD Roads Branch monitors maintenance budget and operation but has limited
information about actual expenditures and works carried out by the MRCU-s
which do not keep maintenance accounts separately from other road expenditure
accounts. The Sarawak Government has decided to improve road maintenance
operation by setting up a maintenance unit in SPWD headquarters and by
establishing road maintenance organization on a pilot basis in two divisions:
Kuching and Sibu. These divisions are responsible for about 40% of the total
road network and the pilot program is envisaged to expand and cover the entire
State in the future.
28.       Both for Sabah and for Sarawak, a major problem for proper main-
tenance is the low standard to which most roads were initially constructed.
Many roads lack proper drainage and pavement structures and consequently
cannot be placed under normal maintenance. Instead, they require costly
repairs after each rainy season before they can be open to traffic again. In
Sabah, the problem is slowly coming under control through the establishment of
the road maintenance unit and through the upgrading of unsatisfactory road
lengths which are then placed under the routine maintenance program. In
Sarawak, a start for improved maintenance operation is about to be launched.
Both States suffer from shortages of sufficiently experienced staff and
extensive training programs are therefore necessary.
29.       In both Sabah and Sarawak, road wear and tear is accelerated by
overloading of heavy vehicles. Both states have an ordinance specifying
maximum axle loads. Control of vehicle weights in Sabah has been strengthened
by the installation, through the Bank-financed Third Highways project, of five
permanent weighing stations at key locations on the road network. In Sarawak,
enforcement of the ordinance is through sporadic police campaigns.



- 11 -
Financing
30.        Highway construction expenditures in Sabah and Sarawak are financed
from both Federal and State budgetary resources. For road maintenance, the
States receive federal allocations which may be supplemented by federal grants
on an ad hoc basis. Road user taxes are not earmarked but form part of the
states' general revenues.
31.        In Sabah, allocations for highway investments rose from US$653 mil-
lion in the 1976-80 Third Malaysia Plan to US$980 million in the 1981-85
Fourth Plan. Maintenance expenditures have been increasing by about 15%
annually over the past five years and reached an estimated M$57 million in
1982. In Sarawak capital expenditures for roads grew by about 18% between
1975 and 1979, and reached an estimated M$106 million in 1982.  Maintenance
expenditures were estimated to be about M$19.4 million in 1982.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.        The project was prepared by the Federal Economic Planning Unit and
the Governments of the States of Sabah and Sarawak and was appraised in
September 1982. Negotiations were held from April 4-7, 1983. The Malaysian
Government delegation was led by Tunku Abdul Malek bin Tunku Kassim, Secre-
tary, Finance Division, Treasury. Details of the project are provided in the
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Sabah-Sarawak Road Project" (No. 4296-MA,
dated May 9, 1983) which is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Supplementary project data are given in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
33.        The project aims to improve rural transport through road upgrading,
to strengthen road maintenance in Sarawak, and to assist the Federal and the
two State Governments in their efforts to improve transport planning and staff
development. The project would provide for construction and improvement of
rural roads in Sabah to support agricultural and agroindustrial development,
in line with the government's overall strategy of alleviating rural poverty.
The improvement of road maintenance in Sarawak and the proposed road studies
would lead to better transport conditions and the construction of new roads
selected on the basis of development priorities. The project will consist of:
(a) road improvements in Sabah comprising 192 km rural trunk roads and
about 100 km agricultural access roads;
(b) staff training in the Sabah and Sarawak SPWD;
(c) strengthening of Sarawak SPWD maintenance organization;



- 12 -
(d) a road transnort review in Sabah and Sarawak and road studies in
Sarawak; and
(e) a national ports study.
(a) Road Improvements
Rural Trunk Roads
34.       In January 1980 the Government appointed consultants to carry out
feasibility studies of about 350 km rural trunk roads in Sabah. A satis-
factory detailed engineering report was completed by the same consulting group
in August 1982. Two roads, the Sandakan-Telupid and Lahad Datu-Sandakan are
among the economically iustified items, and the Government requested the Bank
to include them in the project.
35.       The Sandakan-Telupid road is an unpaved section of the East-West
Highway linking Sandakan to Kota Kinabalu. Substantial agricultural develop-
ment is taking place in the area served by the project road which was built to
low standards, with gradients frequently in excess of 10%. The present
traffic is about 350 vehicles per day, about half of them trucks. Vehicle
speed is low because of poor road standards and rough gravel surface. The
proposed road of 75.4 km length will be partly on a new alignment, and about
12 km shorter than the existing road.
36.       The Lahad Datu-Sandakan road is part of the East Coast Highway
joining Tawau with Sandakan. There are several agricultural development
schemes and plantations in the surrounding area. The present traffic is about
450 vpd at the Sandakan road junction, growing to 800 vpd near Lahad Datu.
The new road will follow the existing alignment which is satisfactory. The
works will consist of improvement to gradients, drainage, pavement and
bridges. Two major bridges (Kinabatangan of 340 m length and Segama of 210 m)
will be financed fully by the Government and built concurrently with road
improvement. They will replace two ferries, which provide poor service.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that it would undertake and
complete construction of the Kinabatangan and Segama bridges on the Lahad
Datu-Sandakan road by December 31, 1987. The Government has also provided
assurances during negotiations that it would implement appropriate measures to
bar logging trucks exceeding the legal axle limit from using the project roads
(Sections 3.06 and 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Agricuitural Access Roads
37.       The Sabah Land Development Board (SLDB) and the Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA) implement agricultural and agro-industrial
development projects in Sabah, some of which are situated in the area
surrounding the project roads. In addition, there are many private planta-
tions and logging concessions. The Government schemes are for smallholder
settlement and for commercial production of palm oil, cocoa, rubber and rice.
The Sahah SPWD is responsible for construction and improvement of agricultural



- 13 -
access roads, financed by both Federal and State budgets. Detailed
engineering is carried out by foreign and local consultants, while
construction is mainly by local contractors. The Government requested to
include in the pro ect, construction and supervision of about 100 km of such
roads, with a view to providing all-weather access to areas presently served
unsatisfactorily and to improve thereby their productive potential and the
standard of living of the rural population depending on them.
38.       The agricultural access roads component envisages a total investment
of M$50 million, including contingencies. Three roads with a combined length
of 85 km were shown to have satisfactory ERRs above 12% and have been included
in the project. Other roads that meet the ERR criteria of 12% or above are
likely to be identified and included in the project.
(b) Staff Training
39.       The project would assist the Sabah SPWD in strengthening its staff
training capacity by providing technical assistance, additional local
instructors, fellowships, equipment tools and teaching aids. Courses would be
organized for all trades up to junior technician level and for higher level
staff as and when necessary. Training output should reach about 500 trainees
per year during the project duration. Technical assistance would be provided
over a 3-year period by a five member team of specialist instructors in civil
engineering, mechanics, auto-electricity and equipment. In addition, a
geotechnical engineer would assist for one year the operations of the SPWD
Materials Laboratory. The increased output of the training center would
require an additional 10 local instructors recruited, if necessary, from the
neighboring ASEAN countries. The fellowships component would allow 3 to
6 months training abroad of 10 instructors and 5 professional staff.
40.       SPWD staff training in Sarawak is mainly through apprenticeship and
on-the-job experience. The SPWD operates a school for junior technical
assistants but the output is minimal: in 1981 only 30 trainees graduated.
The project would provide for construction and equipment of a training center
to include classrooms, workshops, offices and a hostel. To assist the SPWD
with construction and operation of the new training center the project would
finance a six-member team of specialist-instructors and 9 months service of a
geotechnical engineer for the SPUD Material Laboratory. The team would
mobilize in two stages: in the first year, it would be composed of three
experts required to assist in design and supervision of the construction and
equipment of the new training center, and in the second 3-year period, the
full team would carry out the training program. The output of the training
center is expected to reach 600 trainees per year in all trades, from junior
technical assistants to equipment operators and drivers. About 20 local
instructors would be financed by the project, as well as fellowships for
10 instructors and 5 professional staff of SPWD.



- 14 -
(c) Road Maintenance Organization in Sarawak
41.       Road maintenance in Sarawak is inadequate.  It is carried out by the
divisions and districts as and where necessary, using their own direct labor
resources and MRCUs assigned to the divisions. The system does not provide
for separate accounting of maintenance expenditures. The Government has
decided to strengthen the headquarters maintenance unit and to set up
maintenance organizations in two divisions: the First (Kuching) and the Third
(Sibu) to be expanded later to all 7 divisions. The headquarters unit would
be responsible for road maintenance programming, resource allocation,
supervision, monitoring and cost accounting. The existing maintenance
facilities in Kuching and Sibu divisions would be upgraded and two new
maintenance depots set-up: in Balai Ringit in the First Division and in
Selangau in the Third Division. The project would include construction of
buildings, equipment and tools for workshops and additional maintenance
equipment. The project would also provide technical assistance consisting of
96 man-months of a civil engineer, a master mechanic and an accountant.
(d) Road Transport Review and Feasibility Studies
42.       The Government has decided to carry out a review to identify
constraints upon the operation of road transport in Sabah and Sarawak and
between the two States, to identify constraints that an inadequate road
infrastructure imposes upon agricultural, forestry and other resource
development, and to establish priorities for the expansion and improvement of
the road transport network. The related consulting services are estimated at
80 man-months.
43.       The Sarawak SPWD has a very limited portfolio of feasibility studies
for the development of its road network and the project would include a
component of studies for about 500 km trunk roads and about 100 km feeder and
rural roads. The roads to be included in these studies would be selected on
the basis of priorities established by the road transport review.
(e) National Ports Study
44.       At Government request, the project would finance the foreign
exchange cost of a national ports study for the whole of Malaysia. The study
would review existing port facilities and current administrative practices,
and prepare a long-term port development program including both an investment
plan and measures for operational improvements.
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project including taxes and contingencies but
excluding front-end fee is estimated at US$147.9 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$86.00 million representing 58% of the total cost.
The proposed loan of US$86.22 million would cover the total foreign exchange
requirements including a front-end fee of US$0.22 million. The Federal
Government would provide the funds required to finance the local cost
component (US$61.9 million) which includes taxes estimated at 18% of the total
cost (US$26.6 million).



- 15 -
46.        The construction cost of trunk roads was estimated on the basis of
quantities of detailed engineering studies and December 1982 prices. The
agricultural access roads component provides a total allocation of M$50 mil-
lion including contingencies and supervision. The cost of buildings for the
Sarawak SPWT) training center and road maintenance depots was based on
estimated floor surface requirements and 1982 costs per sq ft, while the cost
of equipment, tools and materials was estimated on the basis of summary lists
discussed and agreed during appraisal.
47.        Cost estimates for various consulting services are based on the
current rates per man-month in the area; foreign experts at about US$10,000
for training and US$12,500 for road and port studies and for technical
support; local consultants at about US$5,000. These are all inclusive cost
estimates and cover remuneration, consulting firm overheads and fees, local
expense allowance and international travel.
48.        Physical contingency allowance of 10% has been added on all items to
cover quantity increases. Allowance for price increases has been made on the
basis of the implementation schedule and of the current assessment of price
escalation trends, considered to be the same for foreign and local cost com-
ponents: 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% in 1986 and thereafter.
Implementation
49.        The Federal Economic Planning Unit will be responsible for the
National Ports Study and for the Road Transport Review of Sabah and Sarawak.
The Sabah SPWD Director would be responsible for road improvement and SPWD
training components and the Sarawak SPWD Director would be responsible for
SPIWD training and road maintenance components under the overall responsibility
of the Federal Ministry of Works and Utilities. Consultants engaged by the
two States would assist the respective SPWDs in supervision of infrastructure
works, staff training, road maintenance, and studies. Construction would be
carried out by contractors.
50.        Land acquisition is relevant only for the Sandakan-Telupid road.
The Government has already commenced the procedure to acquire the necessary
right-of-way and assurances have been received that this process will be
completed by the time construction contracts are awarded (Section 3.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
51.        The work would be carried out by equipment intensive method because
labor shortages preclude the economic use of large numbers of unskilled
laborers in construction.
Procurement
52.        Trunk road construction contracts would be awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
Agricultural access roads are relatively small-sized, widely scattered jobs,
which are unlikely to attract offshore foreign firms. Therefore local



- 16 -
competitive bidding (LCB), which is open to foreign contractors, would be
applied for their procurement. The civil works contractors in Sabah are
active in road construction and carry out contracts of substantial size.
Local competitive bidding would also be used for procurement of building
construction for the training center and the road maintenance depots in
Sarawak.
53.       The purchase of equipment and materials for training and mainte-
nance components would be by ICB for packages estimated at more than
US$200,000 while purchases for less than this amount could be procured
according to local procedures which are satisfactory. In evaluation of
equipment bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the applicable customs duty or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is
lower. Draft bid documents and contracts for civil works in excess of
US$2.5 million and equipment in excess of US$500,000 would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. The Bank guidelines will be followed for procurement of
consulting services and all agreements for services will be entered into under
terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
54.       Disbursements from the loan would be on the basis of:  (a) 58% of
total expenditures for civil works and buildings; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures, for imported equipment, tools and materials or the ex-factory
price net of taxes for items manufactured locally, and 70% of total cost of
other local expenditures; (c) 100% of total expenditures for consulting
services for studies and technical assistance, and 50% of total expenditures
for works supervision; and (d) 100% of total expenditures for overseas
fellowships. Disbursements would be against normal documentation except that
statements of expenditure would be used for small purchases of equipment,
tools and materials (items costing less than US$10,000 each). Disbursements
from the Bank loan would not exceed the foreign exchange component and are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
55.       All agencies involved in project implementation are subject to
normal government controls and audit procedures which are satisfactory.
Assurances have been obtained that all project-related accounts will be
submitted to audit by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and that
certified copies of audited financial statements would be forwarded to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each financial year (Section 4.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       Monitoring of project implementation would be carried out by joint
working groups of the Sabah and Sarawak SPWDs and SEPUs. Physical and
financial progress reports from the implementing agencies would be submitted
to the Federal Government and the Bank on a regular basis (Section 3.04(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Monitoring reports on project benefits would be



- 17 -
prepared by the implementing agencies and submitted to by the Federal Economic
Planning Unit and the Treasury.
Environmental Effects
57.       The project will not cause any environmental or ecological problems.
Justification, Benefits, and Risks
58.       Out of an estimated base project cost of M$253.4 million
(US$110.2 million), road improvement components account for about M$216.7 mil-
lion (US$94.2 million), or 86%. Benefits from staff training, road mainte-
nance organization, and studies cannot be satisfactorily quantified and have
been excluded from the economic evaluation calculations.
59.       For the Sandakan-Telupid Road, construction and repaving costs for
the proposed road have been compared with vehicle operating and maintenance
cost savings expected to result from the road improvements. The ERR is 17.6%
and has a range from 14.9% to 19.2% when tested by varying costs and bene-
fits + 10%.
60.       For the Lahad Datu-Sandakan Road, construction and repaving costs
were compared with vehicle operating and maintenance costs associated with the
proposed improvements. The ERR is 13.2% and has a range from 10.9% to 18.4%
when tested by varying costs and benefits + 10%.
61.       The three agricultural access roads included in the project have
been shown to have ERRs 12% or above. The Tawau-Merotai road (ERR 19.8%) and
the Lahad Datu-Bakapit Road (ERR 15.1%) are justified on the basis of vehicle
operating cost and maintenance savings. The Sapi-Nangoh Road has been
evaluated as part of an integrated agricultural development project showing an
ERR of 11.7%.
62.       There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  The
possibility of optimistic assumptions regarding construction costs and
benefits for the road improvement components has been tested by varying + 10%
costs and benefits. Road improvement components have an overall ERR of 15.0%
with a range from 12.6% to 16.4%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section II of
Annex III.



- 18 -
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 9, 1983
Washington, D. C.



Annex 1
-19-                                                  Page 1 of 5
Page 1
TABLE 3A
KWAAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IALAYSIA                           REFERSNCE GOUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                           ~~~~~~~~~- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-r
TOATAL (          329.8                                 MOST RECENT                   INC        R     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      43.3               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  260.0        500.0    1620.0                 890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALFNT)      260.0       590.9      712.7                 701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TNOUSANDS)  8170.0      10863.0   13871.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.2          27.0      29.4                  32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        20.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          31.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KE.                        24.8        32.9       41.1                 255.9                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    248.4        273.2      313.0                1748.0                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.1        45.4       41.0                  39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          51.2        51.5       55.6                  56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6         3.1        3.4                   3.3                      4.2
POPUlATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         2.8        2.4                   2.3                      2.4
URBAN                               4.8         3.5        3.3                   3.9                      3.B
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.8         32.5      31.1                  31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.7         10.4       7.4                   9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         2.7        2.0                   2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        56.0       80.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          7.0       36.0                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           85.0        99.0      122.0                 115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
PREQUIREMENTS)                  107.2       108.9      115.0/c               106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           49.2        49.2       57.27Z                54.4                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.7        17.0       22.7Tc                13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       7.5         3.4        1.9                   6.7                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.0         59.0       64.2                  59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            72.4        45.6       31.1                  63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ''        29.0       62.0/d                32.0                     65.6
URBAN                                *-       100.0       93.0oT                51.9                     78.9
RURAL                                 -         1.0       49.07T                20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ''        59.0       60.0/e                37.7                     59.3
URBAN                                ..       100.0      100.07;                65.7                     75.3
RURAL                                *.        43.0       43.07h                24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7024.9      4314.1    7640.2/c,f             8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1790.9      1117.1      866.67cfi            4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             269.2       288.5      301.4/e              1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                             112.7       135.2         ..                 651.6                    679.8
RURAL                            5683.3      1755.1         ..                2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        18.2       17.2                  27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                           5.6/f
URBAN                                ..         5.9T7
RURAL                                          -5.5/f
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.6/f
URBAN                                 ,         2. 37*f
RURAL                                ..         2. 87
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                .         43.4/f
URBAN                                v         84.77 
RURAL                                ..        30.17T



-20-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
TAR. T3A
PLALAYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
WALAYSLA                         EEFERENCE GROUPS (WFICHTED AVFY.ACES
- HOST RECEN'T ESTIlATF)-!
HOST RECENT           HIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTISATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMeRICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLIIENT RATIOS
PRItARY:     TOTAL                 96.0         91.0       93.0                   96.2                     104.3
MALE                 108.0         95.0      94.0                    99.8                     106.4
F?MALE                83.0         87.0      92.0                    92.1                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 19.0         35.0       52.0                   37.6                      41.3
MALE                  25.0         *0.0      54.0                    41.1                      40.4
pEMALE                13.0        29.0       51.0                    34.1                      41.8
VOCATIONAL EtXOL. (7 OF SECONDARY)   4.6           2.9        2.0                   20.8                      33.7
PIIPlL-TEACHER PATIO
PRIHARY                            27.9         31.0       31.0                   35.5                      29.9
SECONDARY                          24.6         25.8       27.2/c                 25.0                      16.7
ADULT LITEPACY RATE (FERCENr)        52.8/j       58.5         ..                   73.1                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.8         21.9       38.0/c                  9.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAW I
POPULATION                         37.1         39.6      147.7                  116.5                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSASV
POPULATION                          3.2/h       12.0       62.8                   37.6                     107.7
NEWSPAPER (CDAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAmo POPULATION                  60.2         72.1      132.6                   53.7                      63.7
CINEIA A"NUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPI7A 16.0           9.4        2.6/c                  2.8                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2788.3       3667.7    4848.3
PEMIALf (PERCENT)                  27.2         31.4       31.3                   33.6                      26.6
AbGRICULTURE (PERCEN';)            63.0         56.0       50.0                   52.2                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.0         14.0       16.0                   17.9                      23.9
PARTICIIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.1        33.8       35.0                   38.5                      33.6
MALE                                 48.8         45.7       47.6                   50.5                      50.4
FEALE                               18.9         21.5       22.1                   26.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4        1.3                     1.1                       1.3
lNCOME DISTKIBUTION
;PERCENT OF PRIVAlE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
ICGHEST 5 PERCENT OF BOUSEHOLDS   34.0          27.0          .                   ....
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.2          56.6       56.1/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2           3.3        3.5/1                 ....
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.6          10.6       11.2/..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIKKAVED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR8IN                                 ..        123.6    314.4                   194.7
RURAL                                ..         111.6    289.2                   1I5.1                     1846i
ESTIHATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
vRBlAN                                ..          ..         ..                  178.2                     518.0
RURAL                                .. ..                   ..                  164.9                     371.1
ESTFIMTED POPULATION BELOV ABSOLUTE
POVERTY ISCOHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
U9BAN                                 ..         21.3      12.6                   24.4
RURAL                                 *          58.7      37.7                   61.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group average* fo. each tndlcator are populAtion-weighted arithseti,c mean.  Coverage of countriea
among the Indicator. depends otu availability of data and is not uniforr.
lb  UMlas otherwivc rnoted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. bettwe.a  1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recenc Fotloate  betveen 1978 and 1980.
Le   1977;  /d 1976; /i  1975; If Cove,Oe.E per.oinenl only, j 1962; tb 1964; ;S 1973.
may. 1982



p-  O.AT-v ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0027700OI4'
-nn~~~la RR-a I"."   F_                                       -I.Aqd~~~~~70  03000 iooonn .Ibo. f  "FT-IV30  -0000000735'00)00
4o                                                  oov*oooo'4~~~~~~~~Y.     N   jo7.  IT  R,3  -o0;   -010)3    -   ag00o0  p- 0000
T.---  -,.p                                                                                                                           --~~~~~~~~~~~3400-~g  1.l  1*4070   400'~o7gp~0  010 d0 
X-d I. .:L..  1-   -    -1!i 11                              )400  00'0)4'013    40-g0040040003*)gb00)gO- Jog  3  003
090  0034 '0  P  404T P04 4044t ooDoI44g-N              4Oo o;T  gooo  037-   -?0 -o-T
4033003- tousosto  OOO  030  ., 40304   WITOOg    T01   03404  000                  00  W0040   '00003~    304- 400    00300004  p3g  6ogo  T0               'I 0004
70'    99 -~ 40P1000   01313                    Ing00   0  00-0000  7300                 13303    030o   goo3)43or3oo3033   0                                  30
0340  44  1001  0  P1'3"400370040040  4_30  oo4724_o)o                                304w.p0'002   0442000,70400300    303
-  300  00004     (130   0  37   000  04)44440403343033-3000030333304                                                     PT2000004   44003  007730 I    403  0
'04)040000ogoooo030004143   400710 60--'00)  043  000
010.404o7300000400  ogOOoO 043000 00004  60040)000         ~       000  1M, T0  004 'I;" 0000-  (00030   0  430)000   44                     003
--P )04000W,  416    09'0100170  06  '0096  700-0 OW0  00   og3p00   0
V333020340    30340.0000   003300003  304.                                              31  Roooo    0   0  3,o   0o0.0  0  041)   3'3o    -   43   l
400430  61 T-.930 DIS  '07 op 0      " 30  04 00T0   0400000)4400002 04447po004000400p-000 T4000433-1401 gW,                                               I -)000(
p-                  T .              C,  _3--n-li~~~0004411304  10001   00464741  )1  1-440p0   00040 P               000 T-1)-  4-0 0)04   40T0
-"I .1- A -    K-52                -0  43440)440   30034000074  4040004   400306401                               0
'.03304 400   00  000                                                    00  (0   -40  -04   '6)06 -04004p04- 1~
000010049  00  ) 0100  00)00100034  3300 - 0341430004   700                   14304033 0- 047 4-  p0003'40   443700006  0  7004304
0000  000031370040Olo004004  4000.0    0404000040..0 '0000030'                           --P0 0070  P-o1031T 'C004 60 -33033   03  030000                 T"""004
743o0433404 ooo 0-3  00 0000000034 03104 0000000 '4000  3  000033334      033030  04 0I 03. 4.00.0 4__  14004000000030- 03 00 00  03300330
000000  033  04003140  033  '430000  400003000003430040V-0   003  3   0)0400 0p 4733    0    00430  3003   )g                                  0
00  000000 10  -  4003  00'000  3003  (300300  300003043p304 oodO3oo  00 0040300)0044-30   23 004)  4034433  74000040300
004  00  )7 0004) '.34                                              '00)  0)p4   04  1-037I 007   3400
 04003097)  030  30400303440  00  43  4000   0033300)010 -0T000T3 3... -030   1  oo4o)00'06433   30014)31-004
407000400   300403003'0000  404303400' -  033000420g0f         to00010  10   33300400000006340  136400034300 43  33
'0001  04' 00  (047 P040  00o4 340)3040 4*70000.003  00370    313  00430200030 1000040043  41I 003  14  q 0000)10  040 000
10Tolo   '00033'00430  06003 00304ITI-. V- 1003104000                                 0040 440,3003  0  0014070)03300   0p000003
'336070003071004070 010000304 03 03004  4)0) 00004 -(0000303) 00003  01300  4043  000040010333  0013300 3003300  000 0030T'000 '000000
'0304  3600 p0 3003'336)70)4000003 03         003  000-.0 '0006 03004  3300003  00)4-- 011340l1030                 404 00
00   0)300   40340000400033'tt  )030070444  03.3                                000  44340000   1))030)T00  p3020   0300000 -40
''40  '0000000'00000770  0010)00 03 g4o760000  00  031) p030003  00-  M 0o    -                42-00  P-RR4)40-4 ;043340g 4 -0 03430 - 001340
10 T40   0o03   44004)30000-0000401  044.O0J0O                                          00   5010   04  (044   043003431-0 5040)300
3300 SO04                    V0000140003P- 3413~4   3)4* 'PT                           030  0   0
Ill   1-1 ~~~~~~~l  -0       -IM                -0 0000  '000  040300  0)000  40   )000-               340004  4   03
"'03700                                                                        WI3000 00300-0    po   203430    00403    00404000300
3000)  0-ogo  00300401   1.044403'3300410004070  0434074  70400  p000 010133   00731433    0003'-6'0;-1                                  03642
004000  03  0  400    44204370   34  304003' 00~7' 00)3 4043  0703304  0  000     lgfTVAg)6i60404  0)30o 3_g0300000
'3000 0 010000 0003 33007601310040 0) 04 ~4330l~ 04 06T1003000440 00-A003
N00)00000   '300  40200  504333  04o4w7400 00400010
q00o0oo  ..o 00 -T )   30040  0000640)  340)320300400                             004004   3303-434  00070(000 .....  ....044)4330000
'0030330 070P0000-    73 oO301. 00  o0011.0)100-130   0                                   p33V    600403    - (300-00- 10)30q00 30330300.3)116   030  -6 30340)  3003
0000300   0001000p430fogoOoO00004   oj07044400                                      1302   440)  3oo  40-0)004  3) 0030400014               -03)0  130034000J
-,.h-    In,              -4000007  33133074040000'44440  74)'03)0  0770oo0600  00-0)   )70.   04004)40
0003 -3 -07 T070 --044 0404-           00040030   2300  0T-T-~0                            4) 2033104300) -00300  0   03 loop-0030430030   03
RT1-0'0070   0043203   00040-d3)0   000    12010406404   4   44   34    31040
040441000   0.0---             0-(04340   3000   0)00000   )0                                   034. 01040   0   400   000     400440)00   40   42
IIIRTId 1- ddl  . ---  --I  1 ~l-304440 -30))0'3404)-4'403'36   03004
40000301  '03000040  00030'. 030443300  0040 00)00100033  403-40  0 100030  oo  033            T 001  004I-   140004003) 3-   0 30  0 030
4000  004760  30  400000  - 0300400  0000303000030  0003003                                  700434  00'3- 49..0.004   03T00300
--ql 1-                 T0140100              703434400044000   000  -003    6330)073003  43003
1.  --1-  - t-.t'7 04001040003                                        -002303pIt.0000030.30   000100030T1  13000  400'(204-
0t-4 00-T 00 'T00  40. 04.770. 4  00441  340001-434033  000 (03)3                      -o)) 0RI-0430  '<)0   40   04)3      003307336                          403
03 13)020  3000043  0404- o400030  000 4303300    0730  1043000-)440'030MR463130 ).01  074)0(74
'30044700  01330  4  00033003 040430             007  04300140430000  0 43003  -734  A07l--00070-40
-400400) 00406043)300000134 4000 4      T'10020030.0). '7000330040343''03  30  000  060~ '37;-  10036000
0030R.)7.0433-7)70030   400)00300   00030                                             43b(000030  _34 jI- 400344300430    360)4  103)7  9- '0)'4000
'04131300                                                       0770301~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JI 0010000
0)700300 03  00400  03300030303 0)0  03404 0  0701-4  I0030                                                        4A0035   )0  04
p-077  30   010040   007423344  400000   44000404 3-30)303 0003000  0003030044~yl                                             04.  -          P-900   00 003)3  440000000400
40)30300 .034  0004040040000a0 0)020(004'30  4-MT
40730  )oo   0  0063     73040   30'700-703030701                                     30000003000000 0-7343  00003-0  33330000
A-o 03    .0030   4   0000   00   40070   00  3)                            44)A)-4   0000031006  0304   4  4   )0   6 ,000070
7000   0   033           03740   0007  70241000000000300   00_014443   4000000    '2430    4300)00,43   030 40v
40   o00004n40000*0   000710743003300                                                     03003   00010'330)3430  4033   0000   334)0   4
40-3 10000311) 07430)4)0.44 40030)40  40-)0040  0004004  007040004  40)3d0 404  3go 1403000)3374  000003 0)3
00303.030  300 3300o33404 .0)4oo4 3134o4  133 3  0000  44030 0000304000  '44003300003  03 430 300 030 '003 43007 374 34 4004  09033006403.004
0433  0  03  700  004-  400   0000   '000-[09303014                         003  443   007104   0700344043000' -3)0)40  43303
000113  -43)R30330                                                   00334000030   03303   3440                  P0
i7lT&                      30)0304   00000730004    003   070004014300   01
ki- P.P.1-s  -1- '14-4 VRRIIRT-'033002334- 304004  46,0  4304-  0307000 0003070   000030300400
'044710030              -00   400   0100  0170333  0)03   3  03030-40  40340( 44
00  030310  0303040  0734)P3  301403'3)0734010`0704                                000404724FT47740   )410003   0oO4   31000I03
'30004404 0033400000044061 g3071009-39                                                '000  0000  000 '0001 '0940   '34600  03003
0)    AR0)0  04000  030 -n.q a  2350)03020    7'003  T30  469   3000  0   4)00063  3004003   0004030400000044)
0004004 0040)7  00309340307003q04130333000IJ9000  '                                           00340-    43000  040  63)0  -70)44040001434400,00P
;:;-  gf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dT-,.d 2-1-4  11 Iq       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      0341043  '000  11403440
.03440  3   3  00000  20 20700 4000  - 000-037407-3,0 001031                                                                                                 '000
43 ,000  03  1 7033703 7   04340   0022    ~    0004           00 R00                 0410 430393-  0   _3)40 00WI_0' .-400  I003   000   00004'007 
'04014039  0000133067074 -   70730 010005013  P .040 03043  4033 -30) 3300  30000  1To  0034430  403033  I-)130   3                                       -3334g14  343
-0701304   0013)103   00100  0 00020030)7007204  70  001001                                                                              d ,           0
-33     4010403  370  000 <01  '33M1 .00000 '40033930  4017                                                                                       '030  79P0  00'40
0   _333)01140      0 0344003."  Io.  f     0003130 n. 0Pr-" 0IT  040              '34)1070306403 An0731 3040)' 0  003   004000    00                          000
9133304)41  40039  010701  )000   '40)033000  00  114                 -16'3470  030330403  0030340 00000A60  04-  74)  304307
"000  450J03407003   0003003005'0334400003j3S
T043   70104300373430000040    00030700337                                             .0   0370301)4   40020  03-3   0   043  0440   00340



-22-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982:                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln     %         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
GNP at Market Prices            25,318    100.0         6.4       7.8     7.6   6.3   9.4   8.0   5.0   4.0
Gross Domestic Investment        9,134     36.1         6.7       9.6    19.6  10.8  14.1  13.9   3.0   7.3
Gross National Saving            5,863     23.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           13,846     54.7         6.0       8.0     4.3   7.0  13.8   1.8  -2.9  10.6
Imports of Goods, NFS           16,187     63.9         2.9       7.3    14.3  14.0  20.3  10.7   4.0   9.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 /a
Output              Employment        Output Per Worker
US$ Mln     %           M_      x          US$          %
Agriculture              2,792      24.6         2.1    41.2        1,351      60.5
Industry                 3,657      32.2         1.2    23.5        3,035     136.0
Services                 4,920      43.2         1.8    35.3        2,701     121.0
Total/Average       11,369    100.0         5.1   100.0        2,232      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverrnnent
M$ Mln                            % of GDP
1982         1971-75       1976-80        1981        1982
Current Receipts                  16,434           20.6          24.4        27.8        27.1
Current Expenditures              15,735           24.9          30.5        23.4        26.0
Current Surplus                      699            0.6           1.2         4.4         1.2
Direct Development Expenditures  7,630              5.1           7.3        15.6        12.6
Net Lending                        2,804            3.0           3.4         4.0         4.6
Foreign Borrowing (net)            4,050            2.1           1.3         5.1         6.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money             4,660  5,762  7,552  8,714  10,001  12,771  14,861  17,521  21,739  27,437  32,871  37,648
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                      150    432    566    959   1,313       822   1,213   1,017    -741       549   2,292   3,982
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                         2,572  3,012  4,583  5,275   6,077   7,471   8,971  11,626  14,366  20,346  25,718  29,918
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                      36.0   40.5   40.3   38.1   44.8    45.5    46.0    48.3    48.2    52.9         56.9    62.3
Consumer Price Index
(1975 = 100)                    71.5   73.8   81.5   95.7  100.0   102.6   107.5   112.8   116.9   124.7    136.7   143.8
Annual Percentage
Changes in Consumer
Price Index                     1.7    3.2   10.4   17.4    4.5       2.6     4.8      4.9     3.6      6.7      9.6      5.2
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                       .   188.0   31.0   69.4   36.9  -37.4    67.8  -16.2            .       .     317.5    73.8
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                          14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1   15.1    22.9    20.1    29.6    23.6    41.6          26.4    16.3
/a In 1970 prices.
not applicable
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



-23-                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1980   1981   1982    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-81)
(US$ million)                    (US$ Million)
Exports f.o.b.                  12,908  11,268  11,496  Rubber                        1,842    17.3
Imports f.o.b.                  10,711  11,591  12,562  Tirber                        1,610    15.2
Nonfactor Services (net)        -1,482  -1,541  -1,522  Petroleum                     2,257    21.3
Resource Gap (deficit  7-)         715  -1,864  -2,589  Tin                           1,007      9.5
Factor Services (net)             -899    -623  -1,127  Palm Oil                      1,095    10.3
Net Transfers                      -57      -46      -45  All Other Commodities    2,810    26.4
Balance on Current Account        -241  -2,533  -3,760
(deficit =-)                                                 Total                10,621   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          979   1,349  1,304
Net MLT Borrowing /a               240   1,736  2,396
Disbursements                    358   1,874       ..   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Amortization                     118      138
USS Mln
Subtotal                         240   1,736  3,700
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   6,800
Other Items n.e.i.                -750    -452   -412   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)          -228    -100    472   Total Outstanding & Disbursed   6,800
International Reserves           4,387   4,098  3,826
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                        X
Imports                        1,628   2,027
Exports                        3,173   3,144       ..   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          7.0
Of which:  Crude Petro-                               Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum          3,076   3,044       ..   Total Outstanding & Disbursed          7.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING (September 30, 1982)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:                                                                     IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$              Outstanding & Disbursed              633.81
Undisbursed                         415 .27
1971              3.05            0.33                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,049.08
1972              2.82            0.35
1973              2.44            0.41
1974              2.41            0.41
1975              2.40            0.42
1976              2.54            0.39
1977              2.46            0.41
1978              2.32            0.43
1979              2.19            0.46
1980              2.18            0.46
1981              2.30            0.44
1982              2.30            0.44
/a  Medium and long-term  capital flows for 1980 and 1981 are obtained from World Bank debt
data and are comparable with balance of payments estimates.  IBRD estimate for 1982.
not available



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1983)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.    Year        Borrower        Purpose                     Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-five loans fully disbursed                                   479.23            -
973        1974       Malaysia       Agricultural Development   45.00           6.49
974        1974       Malaysia       Education (III)               19.00        2.46
1044        1974       Malaysia       Land Settlement               36.00        1.88
1115        1975       Malaysia       Agricultural Research
and Extension              20.50        2.43
1178        1975       National
Electricity
Board        Power (VII)                   32.00        1.27
1213        1976       Malaysia       Sewerage                      21.50        4.96
1214        1976       Malaysia       Urban Transport (II)          23.41        1.39
1294        1976       Malaysia       Rural Development             21.00        2.77
1329        1976       Malaysia       Education (IV)                35.00       10.53
1376        1977       Malaysia       Highway (III)                 35.00       11.95
1443        1977       National
Electricity
Board        Power (VIII)                  22.00        3.42
1444        1977       Mfalaysia      Irrigation                    39.00       16.88
1493        1978       Malaysia       National Extension            19.00       12.20
1522        1978       Malaysia       Agricultural Development   26.00           8.59
1580        19 78      Sabah Ports
Authority   Ports (II)                     13.00        1.45
1590        1978       Malaysia       Lands Settlement              28.00       23.36
1608        1978       Malaysia       Population (II)               17.00       13.74
1618        1978       Malaysia       Coconut Smallholders Devt. 19.50           9.41
1632        1979       Malaysia       Agricultural Development   26.50           9.67
1657        19 79      Malaysia       Education                     38.00       17.77
1717        1980       Malaysia       Irrigation                    31.00       20.72
National
1808        1980         Electricity
Board        Power IX                      50.00       24.11
1899        1980       Malaysia       Kelantan Land Scheme
Rehabilitation             25.00       22.42
1957        1981       Malaysia       Rompin-Endau
Area Development              40.00       36.71
1960        1981       Malaysia       Trans-Perak Area Devt.        50.00       48.65
2013        1981       Malaysia       FELCRA                        37.00       34.41
2145        1982       Malaysia       Industrial Training           40.6        39.53
2146        1982       National
Electricity
Board        Rural Electrification         86.3        85.02
2147        1982       Malaysia       Malacca Agricultural
Development                25.4         25.02
2220/a      1982       Malaysia       Kedah Valleys Agr. Dev.    56.9           56.90
Total loans (less cancellations)
of which has been repaid                          1,457.84
224.13
Total now outstanding                                1,230.89
Amount sold                             43.89
of which has been repaid             41.07             2.82
Total loans now held by Bank                         1,228.07
Total undisbursed                                                  556.11
/a   Declared effective on April 12, 1983.



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1983)
Year                                             Type of      Amount in US$ million
Business    Loan   Equity  Total
1964, Malaysian Industrial Development           Development
1974    Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                        Financing      -   1.94    1.94
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                          Cement        1.28   0.28    1.56
1968,
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd                       Steel         2.45   1.24    3.69
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.             Textiles       1.25   0.25    1.50
Total gross commitment                                  4.98   3.71    8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                    4.09   3.46    7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC
0.89   0.25    1.14
Total undisbursed



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS UNDER EXECUTION /1
AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 25, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 25,500 ha of land and
planting and maintenance of about 27,000 ha of oil palm; construction of
three palm oil mills and establishment of three urban settlements for about
5,200 families. The project is progressing satisfactorily. About 21,000 ha
of oil palm or 95% of appraisal target had been planted by December 1981.
Disbursements are 95% of appraisal target. Already 17,000 ha of the planted
area was in production by end-1982. The third oil mill was commissioned in
August 1982. Five of the ten schemes continue to have serious water supply
problems from the Public Works Department, as a result only 2,900 families
have so far been settled.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen MARDI's research
programs and to establish an Extension Liaison Unit (ELU) in the Department of
Agriculture. The project was restructured in mid-1979 and the focus was
changed from commodity specific research to include all broad-based research
programs of the Malaysian Research and Development Institute (MARDI). Subse-
quently, the loan was reduced from US$28.5 million to US$20.5 million involv-
ing reductions in the use of consultants, livestock, equipment and civil works
components. One of the most successful components is the fellowship program
which has already provided postgraduate degrees to 222 staff who now consti-
tute over 50% of MARDI's researchers. MARDI has started to invite voluntary
researchers from abroad and three eminent scientists were retained recently to
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
review the future role of MARDI. To build a more effective linkage between
research and extension, MARDI and ELU are intensifying their working rela-
tionship at headquarters as well as in the field.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis. The key approach to serve farmers-
needs is through strong Government commitment to the Training and Visit (T&V)
extension system. Overall progress is satisfactory, but with variations in
the coverage and quality between States. In particular, Sabah and Sarawak are
behind schedule, mainly through difficulties in recruiting locally qualified
agricultural technicians. Progress in the construction of civil works still
presents problems.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Due mainly to delays in forest clearance and land release in some
areas of Pahang State, the Bank in January 1982, agreed to FELDA's request
to replace problem land areas and change the crop mix of the project. The
project now consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of 21,000 ha
of rubber, 8,000 ha of oil palm and 800 ha of cocoa; settlement of about
7,400 smallholders; and construction of two palm oil mills. Planting to end-
1982 reached 11,700 of rubber and 5,700 ha of oil palm but appraisal targets
are unlikely to be met by end-1984 because permission to clear some 4,000 ha
of forest in the two states is still awaited. Some 650 families have been
settled but against an appraisal target of 3,000 by end 1982.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 16,400 ha of
traditional coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, and fruits; new
planting and replanting of about 6,900 ha with hybrid coconuts and associa-
ted cash crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the importa-
tion of about 6,600 crossbred dairy animals for the development of about
3,350 integrated dairy and beef operations in coconut areas; and the
strengthening of support services for crop and dairy production. The



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
project is progressing slowly because (a) demand for replanting and
rehabilitation of coconut has decreased sharply due to depressed prices of
copra and fresh nuts, and (b) construction of new milk collection centers
(MCCs) may be substantially reduced due to the slow acceptance of imported
heifers by new dairy farmers. With little likelihood of price recovery in
the near future, Government has initiated a review of the future role of
coconuts within the agricultural sector, after which, the coconut component
will be reassessed. The Government has also decided to slow down dairy
farming development and construction of new MCCs and this component will
also be re-examined.
Loan No. 1899 Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of December 1, 1980; Effective Date: June 2, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project will provide assistance to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR
land settlement schemes to complete development of their holdings and to
replant or rehabilitate existing crops. About 1,800 families will be
settled to develop landholdings on the schemes, about 11,900 ha of land
will be planted to new rubber, 5,700 ha rehabilitated and 2,900 ha
replanted. Implementation of the project is behind schedule. The
Government recently decided to abolish TAKDIR, the state executing agency,
and entrust the project to KESEDAR (South Kelantan Development Authority), a
federal agency. The capabilities of KESEDAR will be evaluated shortly and
the Bank will agree with Government on the timing fcr handing over hc
project to KESEDAR.
Loan No. 2013 FELCRA I Project; US$37.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1981;
Effective Date: March 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986
The project will finance about 90 fringe area and rehabilitation
schemes in FELCRA-s tree crop program for the Fourth Plan Period (1981-85),
with an area of about 34,000 ha, made up of about 26,000 ha of rubber and
8,000 ha of oil palm. Although behind schedule, project implementation is
progressing satisfactorily. There is also construction of two oil palm
mills, 560 staff houses, 112 miles of road and other infrastructure. For
1981 and 1982 a total of some 13,600 ha were planted, about 85% of the
appraisal target. The first of the two mills was commissioned in late 1982
and the second is nearing completion.
Loan No. 2147 Malacca Agricultural Development Project; US$25.4 million
Loan of May 18, 1982; Effective Date: October 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1989
The project would provide for replanting of old rubber areas total-
ling about 9,000 ha and maintenance up to tapping of about 5,300 ha of rubber



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
replanted in 1976-81; construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation
and drainage schemes for about 4,400 ha; the construction of a milk collec-
tion center; development of about 260 ha of fishponds; construction of about
140 km of farm and access roads; and improvement of agricultural support
services. The project would also provide for equipment and vehicles for
operation and maintenance, staff and farmer training, and consulting
services for studies, design and construction supervision. Project
implementation is generally satisfactory. The livestock components await
recommendations/decisions of a sector review being undertaken by the
Government.
Loan No. 2220 Kedah Valleys Agricultural Development Project; US$56.9 million
Loan of February 7, 1983; Effective Date: April 12, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988
The project provides for replanting of about 15,100 ha of old
rubber areas and maintenance up to maturity of about 13,200 ha of rubber
replanted in 1977-82; establishment of about 240 group processing centers
for farmers rubber; construction and rehabilitation of about 38 small
irrigation schemes for about 8,850 ha and construction of about 380 km of
farm roads and 370 km of access roads in agricultural areas; rehabilitation
of about 2,000 ha of smallholder house orchards; development of about 210 ha
of freshwater fishponds and provision of training and laboratory facilities
at two State fisheries centers. The project also provides for various
agricultural services, including staff and farmer training, equipment and
vehicles for project operation and maintenance, and consulting services for
studies, design, and construction supervision.
Loan No. 973 Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in a tree crop
area of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an
integrated agricultural development program to increase farm incomes through
diversification from rubber to oil palm and coconut replanting, rehabilita-
tion and undercropping with coffee and cocoa. Because of initial staff
constraints, land acquisition problems and inclusion of additional roads and
other works, project completion is likely to be delayed. However, the main
drainage and tidal control works have already been completed and road
construction is progressing well. Owing to infrastructure delays
agricultural development has been slow, but the government has formulated an
action plan to accelerate it.



-30-                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km
of rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers' development centers; and estab-
lishment of agricultural extension services. Problems related to land
acquisition, staffing and limited construction capability which initially
delayed implementation of civil works have been largely overcome. Most
project components should be completed by end-1983. Agricultural support
services have been established and are working well.
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project includes construction of 195 small irrigation schemes
with a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha; technical assistance and
training for DID; procurement of equipment and a completed feasibility study
for the Rompin-Endau irrigation project (Loan 1957-MA). Implementation is
more than 3 years behind schedule but construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily. The revised number of schemes proposed under the project is
now 115, covering about 36,000 ha, all of which have been approved by the
Bank. DID is reviewing the merits of all schemes as utilization of
irrigation works in some schemes has been poor which may result in project
reformulation.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of an irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage works for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facili-
ties, equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricul-
tural services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The
project started about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff
shortages, but now significant progress has been made on staffing, design
and tendering of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of
drainage works. Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory.
Draft agricultural services operation and irrigation O&M manuals have been
prepared. The project is now expected to be completed by mid-1985, about
two and a half years behind appraisal schedule.



-31-                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensified agricultural supporting
services in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi
land in the state of Perak. Due to initial staff shortages and continuing
delays in land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of
1985, some two years behind the appraisal estimate, but those difficulties
have been largely overcome and progress is more satisfactory. Total cost of
the project is now estimated at US$115 million, up about 92% from the
appraisal level of US$60 million. The substantial cost increase was due to
the high inflation rate in the construction sector and some increase in work
quantities and land acquisition costs.
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, where the storage facilities and
main canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project
(Loan 434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary
irrigation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000
ha of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement
of operation and maintenance facilities, and drainage and coastal protection
works serving the entire 98,000 ha area. Project completion is now expected
by end-1985, as compared to end-1983 at appraisal. Implementation was ini-
tially hampered by delays in land acquisition, the lack of contractors due
to the booming construction sector and the need for retenders due to high
bid prices, but these problems have been largely overcome and implementation
is progressing satisfactorily. Total project costs have increased to US$100
million, about 45% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$69 million.
Loan 1957 Rompin-Endau Area Development Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project is designed to provide for construction of irrigation
works and development of new land for double cropping for rice on about
11,400 ha in four subprojects along the Rompin, Pontian, and Anak Endau
rivers in southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia
and for housing and social facilities for about 4,750 settler families.
Overall project implementation is progressing satisfactorily but delay in
obtaining forest clearances has delayed land clearing operations by up to
12 months.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Loan 1960 Trans-Perak Area Development Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 23, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would provide for development of 13,600 ha of new land
for rice and treecrops, and rehabilitation of 4,900 ha of existing rice land
in Perak State. It would also include roads, housing, community facilities,
palm oil and cocoa mills, and supporting services for agriculture and com-
munity development for about 6,900 settler families, presently landless or
cultivating uneconomic-sized holdings in Perak and other states. Implemen-
tation of the land development and irrigation components are satisfactory
but works on township facilities, project main roads and the 27 km West
Coast Highway section are behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project includes seven secondary schools, one junior college,
four teacher training colleges, one polytechnic institute, and educational
radio and television facilities. Project implementation is about four years
behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design and tender-
ing, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building materials and
labor. It is now nearing completion (about 90% completed) and project
objectives are being met.
Loan 1329   Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of November 18,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction
of approximately 848 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project
total) is satisfactory. All of the primary schools except two have been
completed. The industrial training institutes and the educational resource
centers are about 75% completed. All civil works are expected to be com-
pleted in early 1984. The teacher training college and a study of community
education are completed.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1657   Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date:  May 7, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for
76 lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to
education; (b) establishment of administrative training institutes for
headmasters and other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and
three regional centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the
national public administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range
planning of occupational training. Implementation performance is good (of
76 planned secondary schools 20% have been completed and about 53% are under
construction), and overall the project is being implemented on schedule.
Loan No. 2145   Sixth Education (Industrial Training) Project; US$40.6
Million Loan of May 18, 198-; Effective Date: October 7,
1982; Closing Date: June 3 , 1987.
The project assists the Bor:ower in the first phase of a long-term
industrial skill development program. The program aims to increase the
supply of technicians and skilled workers, improve their quality and
strengthen management of relevant training programs. To help achieve these
objectives, the project provides civil works, furniture, equipment and
technical assistance to: (a) establish two polytechnics and three indus-
trial training institutes (ITIs); (b) prepare for future establishment of
three polytechnics and two institutes (design and site works:); (c) promote
training in industry, improve training programs/materials/staff, increase
resource utilization, and strengthen polytechnic and ITI management; and
(d) strengthen monitoring and review activities for the project. Tender for
site works has been awarded and tenders for technical assistance package are
in progress.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178  Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date:  March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project consists of extension of the Prai Thermal Power
Station, installation of 132 kV transmission line from Majadee switching
station to Kota Tinggi, and extension of 11 kv distribution system to two
rural areas. Extension of Prai Power Station is now completed except for
the remaining retention payments. Due to savings in project cost, the loan
amount was reduced to US$32.0 million.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project consists of construction, supply and implementation
of oil-fired thermal power station at Pasir Gudang, and supply and installa-
tion of transmission facilities. The first unit at the Pasir Gudang Thermal
Power Station was synchronized in January 1982, and the second unit in
July 1982. The construction of transmission facilities has also been
completed.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project consists of construction of two dams and hydroelectric
power stations at Bersia and Kenering in upper reaches of Perak River,
supply and installation of associated transmission and substation facilities
and, energy sector development study. Construction of the hydro station
is progressing satisfactorily. There has been a delay of almost one year
in the construction of the 275 kv transmission line, due to security
problems. It is expected that the line will be completed in December 1983.
Loan No. 2146 Rural Electrification Project (Power Tenth); US$86.3 million
Loan of May 18, 1982; Effective Date: October 7, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises: (a) 275 kV Kenyir-Tanah Merah transmission
line; (b) about 120 km of 132 kV transmission lines and substations;
(c) rural distribution network in Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang
States; (d) minihydro schemes; and (e) consulting services for the 275 kV
line and minihydro schemes. Progress of work on the transmission components
of the project has been satisfactory. The procurement action for the
materials for the distribution equipment and mini-hydro plants is in
progress and issue of enquiries is expected in April/May 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and con-
sultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
Overall, the project is about 90% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in
September 1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is
completed. Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one is
completed and the second is about 40% complete. The work on both sections
was interrupted due to severe financial difficulties faced by the contrac-
tor. Virtually no progress has been accomplished during the first quarter
of 1983 due to the contractor's severe financial problems. Continued delays
in project implementation must be anticipated. The Government has been
requested to review the present situation to see whether other arrangements
should be made to complete the work.
Satisfactory progress has been made with Road Upgrading Program
and in establishing the road maintenance organization in Sabah; equipment
has been procured, but execution of Road Maintenance Program is limited by
insufficient funding and Government is considering supplementary budgeting.
Setting up road maintenance sections in three pilot states in Peninsular
Malaysia has been completed. The Pavement Strengthening Program in the
three pilot states was completed in 1982 and is being extended to other
states. The urban study of Kota Kinabalu in Sabah and the transport/railway
study in Peninsular Malaysia have been completed.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth; and
(c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports Authority (SPA) by providing
technical assistance and staff training. Civil works commenced in December
1979 and are about 95% completed. Procurement of equipment is being satis-
factorily carried out by SPA utilizing their own resources.  Management
consultants have completed their work satisfactorily.
Due to delays experienced during the early stages of design and
construction, the Project is now expectd to be completed by September 1983,
more than 2 years later than was anticipated at the time of appraisal. Most
of the facilities, however, are now available for use. Construction costs
have escalated sharply due to delays in project execution, combined with
rapid inflation and an increase in project quantities for civil works.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
POPULATION
Loan No. 1608  Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1985
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for
the improvement of maternal and child health.
Progress on this project has been slow, with particular delays
being experienced in the letting of civil works contracts and related
procurement. However, recent provision of additional budgetary allocations
by the GOM for civil works has already begun to improve this situation. The
women's development component continues to experience difficulty. After a
lengthy vacancy, the position of head of the MOH health education unit has
been filled, which should help to expedite the pace of project communication/
education activities. Slow disbursements ($3.3 million as of 3/30/83) have
been the result of delays in project activities, and of delays in processing
claims even for completed activities. The Project Seretariat has recently
taken action to actively seek accelerated submission of reimbursement
claims.
URBAN AND WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1213  Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year masterplan for
sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes the
extension of sewage collection (originally about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers; actually about 81 miles) and treatment facilities to serve an                           4
additional population of 200,000 in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the
institution of a separate Sewerage Department within the Kuala Lumpur City
Hall with its own accounting system and finances; engineering and management
consultant services; staff training; and the preparation of sewerage and
pollution control system in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. Construction
of the sewers extension is complete; the land acquisition problems which had
delayed the construction of the sewage treatment works have been largely
resolved. The project is, expected to be completed by about mid-1984, about
three and a half years behind the appraisal schedule. Sewerage surcharges on
water bills were instituted after considerable delays.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The main project components are: (a) road and intersection improve-
ments, traffic engineering and control schemes and construction of new radial
roads; (b) transport policy measures including introduction of minibus
services, traffic priorities for high-occupancy vehicles and area road
pricing; (c) provision of new serviced plots for households and businesses,
and improvement of infrastructure services for existing households; and (d)
technical assistance to support traffic management and transport planning, to
prepare an urban development project for Kuantan, and to review national
housing policies and programs.
The major problems encountered during project implementation,
besides delays in construction, were reluctance of the Government to pursue
public transport policy measures and basic disagreements relating to
policies on the sites and services component between the Government and the
Bank. However, at the time of the original closing of the loan June 30, 1981,
sufficient progress had been made in the project to warrant an extension of
the loan closing date for the transport component; however, the sites and
services component was cancelled. Civil works and traffic control equipment
for the Traffic Management Department -- City Hall are complete. The inner
ring road has now been opened to traffic. The Traffic Dispersal Scheme
(Stage 1 and 2 lanes) is virtually completed.



-38-
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
SABAH-SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: 36 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:              Federal Economic
Planning Unit
State Government
of Sabah
State Government of
Sarawak
(c) Date of first Bank Mission to consider the
project:                                         February 1982
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:            September 5, 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                April 7, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                     August 31, 1983
Section II: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained with respect to the
following:
(a) the Government would undertake and complete construction of the
Kinabatangan and Segama bridges on the Lahad Datu-Sandakan road
by December 31, 1987 (para. 36);
(b) that appropriate measures would be implemented to bar logging
trucks exceeding the legal axle limits from using the project
roads (para. 36); and
(c) that the right-of-way acquisitions required for the Sabah road
improvements would be completed before construction contract
awards (para. 50).



1                                                                                                 IB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lRD 16938R
1100  1i2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         1140                                              fl30                                               1130~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la            APRIL 1983
MALAYSIA
SABAH SARAWAK ROAD PROJECT:>jde 
fT'RUNK ROADS    NIU                            N
AGRIC01-TUIIAI,ACS   OD                                                                                                                o   ed      Sp,
H~ AIELAAYS                                                                                                                                        d          X
60                                        PO~~~~~~~~~~~~RTS
o~AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                               13-           c90                                                     9,
DIVISION OS  RES[DENCY ROUNDARIRS                                                                                                                                              4Sdon
STATS BOUNDARIES
INTPRNATIONAL RUN AFI                                                                                                P                oo..o  TIo,d'
/                        ~~~SABAH           LorgT
~~~oI  2 ~~~~~~~~~~~6(  2oo ~ ~ ~        ~        ~         ~       ~        oor
ISILOMETEIRSboe
55 ifS                           ...o-..                  K1100no0fl ..
UNEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0S
~~~~~~S   I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                \    /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1onoo   4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~frt
I                                                 *0>~~~~~~~~~~~~V
'I  (y,~~~~~~~~~~o  r   X<                    2                                                                                                       40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t--
c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              01 a~~~~~~~~~~~~y mdry , oy~~~00.  ~     ,    ~ ~  
T H~~~~~ I A"N                                   FH~~~~~~~~CAP0L3Pl TNE0Snn10
0'                                >07<>                                  0000 000 SR 400030001 00)000~~~~'7
,iD ~     ~        C      0011>,'TOIRI9OOISI,OR
~~~~~4. ~~~~                                                                N,   E                                     / S   I  AnofTe001  oR 0 S
iio"~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I                         1                                                                                                                                                                                 Oa2nSOnOPNGO CoPO,0E
VReIa)a                                                                                                       000 5990001 00 190 3ANQE01I A0AL055~



