Report No. PID5608
Project Name          Guinea-Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SACIII) (@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Macroeconomic reform with focus on
public expenditure management
Project ID                       GNPE49690
Borrower                         Republic of Guinea
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Date PID Prepared                September 5, 1997
Projected Appraisal              September 22-October 3rd, 1997
Projected Board Date             December 16, 1997
I.      Country and Sector Background
1.      Since 1985, Guinea has made significant headway in its
transition to a market-oriented economy involving notably price
liberalization, streamlining of the civil service, privatizing of a
large number of public enterprises, and reforms of the exchange
system. But owing to a severe terms-of-trade deterioration --
prices of bauxite declined by 33 percent between 1990 and 1994 --
which reduce fiscal revenue from the mining sector by 7.5 percentage
points of GDP during the same period and frequent expenditure
overruns, the country has experienced repeated fiscal crises. To
deal with the considerably worsened financial position, the new
government which took office in July 1996, initiated bold remedial
actions to combat fraud, particularly in the customs area, reduce
fiscal exemptions, increase fiscal revenue with the introduction of
the value-added tax, and control government expenditures. In
support of the new government's commitment, the IMF approved a
three-year enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF) for the
period October 1996-September 1999 which focuses, during the first
year, on restoring financial discipline in the public sector.
2.      The primary economic challenges facing Guinea at this juncture
are to establish the foundations for a sustainable fiscal adjustment
through renewed effort towards revenue mobilization effort and to
improve the impact of public service through a major overhaul of the
public expenditure management system. Determined revenue
mobilization efforts aimed at reducing tax evasion and avoidance
have eased the public finances position and helped re-establish
normal expenditure control procedures. To create the conditions for
a lasting fiscal adjustment, the Government is, in the context of
this operation, taking a series of measures to improve expenditure
allocations, control, and monitoring.
II.     SAC III Objectives and Description
3.      The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's strategy



to assist Guinea getting back on track toward financial
sustainability and improving service delivery for poverty reduction.
The reforms supported by the operation will help maintain
macroeconomic stability and fiscal discipline which are necessary to
create a conducive environment for private sector-led economic
growth and poverty reduction. Enhanced governance through a more
transparent management of the public sector is also expected to
increase investors' confidence in the economy.
4.      The proposed project has three main components: (a)
restructuring of public expenditures toward four priority areas
(education, health, rural development, and roads) with the adoption
in 1998, of a medium-term expenditure framework; (b) strengthening
budgetary execution and control through the adoption of a computer-
based public sector financial information system, more rigorous
implementation of the regulatory framework, and procurement, and the
standardization and simplification of budgetary processes; and (c)
developing a service-oriented civil service to improve cost and
efficiency of the delivery system and to enhance its effectiveness
on poverty alleviation.
5.      The first component has three dimensions: (i) the development
of a medium-term expenditure framework to help the Government and
the concerned ministries prioritize inter-sectoral and intra-
sectoral expenditures; (ii) the implementation of a result-oriented
system of service delivery through ex-post evaluation of performance
indicators and publishing and disseminating performance results; and
(iii) ensuring aggregate fiscal discipline through the introduction
of clear inter-sectoral allocations rules and hard budget
constraints. Starting with fiscal year 1998 which will begin next
January, expenditures in the four priority sectors will be
programmed and implemented using the MTEF. The remaining ministries
will be adopt the new framework in the following two budget years.
6.      The implementation of the MTEF, which has already started, will
include: (i) developing a consistent macroeconomic framework and,
from this, realistic resource projections for the 1998-2000; (ii)
determining for each of the four sectors priorities sectoral
spending programs/targets for 1998-2000 based on sectoral
objectives, detailed cost estimates, and consultations with
beneficiaries; (iii) sectoral financial envelopes and budget
allocations for 1998 were then defined and approved by the Cabinet;
and (iv) developing performance indicators specific to the sectors
to monitor the effectiveness of public services and designing ex-
post evaluation system of financial outcomes (including disbursement rates).
7.      In parallel to efforts to restructure expenditures using the
MTEF approach, the Government will also implement measures to
improve budget execution and strengthen budgetary control. This
component has three dimensions: (i) strengthening monitoring of
budget execution with the adoption of a computerized public sector
financial information system (starting October 1997, computerized
monthly information on budget execution for each sector ministry
will be published and disseminated and , for the first time in
Guinea's history, the publication of actual (realized) expenditures
-2 -



for of the budget 1996; (ii) strengthening the regulatory framework
that governs expenditure control focusing on financial control and
government procurement; (iii) standardizing and simplifying
budgetary processes including the adoption of revised budgetary
classification for recurrent and investment budgets starting budget
year 1998.
8.      An important step in building a more service-oriented and
effective civil service is the rationalization and balancing of the
respective roles and mission of the state, the private sector, and
local communities and NGOs in the production and delivery of public
goods and services. This component of SAC III, which will be
discussed further with the Government during appraisal, will help it
rethink its role and mission with the aim to improve the performance
of core government functions and the delivery of public services.
Using existing best practices where available and where no best
practices with a proven record exist, pilot programs to test out new
approaches will be designed and tried out. Together with the
assessment of client feedback on the quality of public services, the
above experiments, to be carried out in the four priority sectors
will provide the basis subsequent civil service reforms.
III.    Financing, Implementation and Sustainability
9.      The SAC III operation will be supported by an IDA US$70 million
and an African Development Bank cofinancing loan of US$13 million.
The Credit is expected to be disbursed in two tranches and one
floating tranche over a 12 to 18 month period.
IV.     Poverty Category and Environmental Aspects
10.     Poverty category is B and environment category is C.
V.      Program Objective Categories (POC)
11.     The operation falls under the poverty reduction POC.
Contact Point:           The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending January 9, 1998.
- 3 -



