Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19954
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 3021-GUI)
December 16, 1999
Macroeconomics 5
Economic Management and Social Policy
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed
l without the World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1999)
Currency Unit           -      Guinean Franc (GNF)
US$lDollar              =      GNFI,335.25
GNF                     -      US$0.000748
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                  Adaptable Program Lending
BAD                  Banque Afticaine de Diveloppement
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CBSD                 Capacity Building for Service Delivery
CRD                  Rural Development Community
DNB                  Direction Nationale du Budget (Budget Depatmnent, MEF)
ESAF                 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FAD                  Fonds Africain de Ddveloppement
FINEX                Investmnent budget financed entirely by donors
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                  International Development Association
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
MAEF                 Ministere de l 'Agriculture, des Eaux et Forets (Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock, and Forestry)
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MTEF                 Medium-term Expenditure Framework
PADSE                Projet d'Appui au Developpement Socio-economique
PEMAC                Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit
PER                  Public Expenditure Review
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
Vice President            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director          Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager            Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader          Ezzeddine Larbi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 3021-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION RIEPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................i
INTRODUCTION ..............................................................i
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................................................i
AcHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM  OBJECTIVES ...............................................................i
LESSONS LEARNED .............................................................                                                    iii
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT ....................................................I
A. BACKGROUND.1
B.    PROGRAM  OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ............................................,.I
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES                                                          .2
D. MAJOR FACTORS WHICH AFFECTED THE OPERATION                                                       .7
E. SUSTAINABILITY OF REFORMS                                                           .7
F. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                              .8
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                              .8
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES                                                            .8
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                                             .9
J. LESSONS LEARNED                                                              .9
PART II: ATTACHMENT TABLES ......................................................                                                    10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...................................................................11
Table 2: Reforms Supported by IDA  Adjustment Credits and Waivers ................................................. 12
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................................. 13
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....................                      ......................... 13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................               ........................... 14
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators .................................................................                           15
Table 7: Studies Included in Projet ................................................................. 15
Table 8A: Project Costs .................................................................                                       16
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................................                                   16
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................                                     16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                                      17
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................................                   ................ 18
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ......................................................                                  18
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions ...................................................... 19
APPENDIXI ......................................................                                                                    20
BORROWER  CONTRIBUTION  TO  THE ICR  ...............                                     ....................................... 20
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without the
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT NO. 3021-GUI
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Expenditure
Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) to the Republic of Guinea (Credit No 30210) in
the amount of US$70 million equivalent, which was approved on December 16, 1997. The
credit, which was declared effective on December 23, 1997 has two tranches; the first tranche
in the amount of US$45 million was released upon credit effectiveness; the second tranche in
the amount of US$25 million was disbursed on November 14, 1998. The operation is
cofinanced by the African Development Bank.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Ezzeddine Larbi (AFTM5) and reviewed by Mr. Brian
Ngo, Cluster Leader, Mr. Emmanuel Akpa, Sector Manager, and Mr. Mamadou Dia, Country
Director for Guinea. Mr. Abdoulaye Seck, also contributed to the preparation of the report.
Ms. Paula J. White, assisted in the preparation of the statistical annex.
3.    This report is based, inter alia, on the Report and Recommendation of the President to
the Executive Directors, the Letter of Development Policy, the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, the memorandum to the Executive Directors recommending
release of the second tranche and internal Bank memoranda. Additionally, excerpts from the
Borrower's own Implementation Completion Report are included as Appendix I.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit No. 3021-GUI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    Since 1985, Guinea has made significant headway in its transition to a market-
oriented economy. But owing to a severe terms of trade deterioration during the 1990-94
period--when prices of bauxite declined by 33 percent which led to a sharp decline in fiscal
revenue from the mining sector equivalent to 7.5 percentage points of GDP and to frequent
expenditure overruns--Guinea has experienced repeated fiscal crises. To deal with the
considerably worsened financial position, the Government, which came to power in July
1996, initiated bold remedial actions to combat fraud, reduce fiscal exemptions, increase
fiscal revenue with the introduction of the value-added tax, and control government
expenditures. In support of the new Government's commitment, the IMF approved a three-
year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), which focuses in restoring financial
discipline and improving resource mobilization.
2.    To further support the Government's efforts, IDA approved in December 1997 a
Public Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) to help the Government improve the
management of public expenditures. The credit, in the amount of US$70 million, had two
tranches; the first tranche in the amount of US$45 million was released upon credit
effectiveness; the second tranche in the amount of US$25 million was disbursed on
November 14, 1998. The operation was cofinanced by the African Development Bank.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The purpose of the PEMAC was to support a comprehensive policy package to
improve expenditure allocation, control, and monitoring and to help budget execution for a
lasting fiscal adjustment. The project had two main components. The first aimed at
restructuring public expenditures toward four priority areas (education, health, rural
development, and road maintenance). These four sectors, which comprised seven line
ministries, were expected to adopt in fiscal year 1998 a medium-term expenditure framework
(MTEF). The second component of the project was designed to strengthen budgetary
execution and control through the adoption of a computerized expenditure monitoring
system, more rigorous implementation of the regulatory framework especially for financial
control and procurement, and the standardization and simplification of budgetary processes.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
4.    Policy reforms under PEMAC have achieved some meaningful results in spite of the
shortfall in revenues and the unforeseen need for increased military expenditures related to



ii
regional security. In addition, PEMAC helped the Bank advance its policy dialogue in the
key sectors. Beginning in 1998, seven ministries covering four priority sectors (education,
health, rural development, and road maintenance) piloted implementation of the MTEF. The
pilot was confined to the recurrent budget and, within that, to non-wage recurrent
expenditure. In the period since Board approval, the Government of Guinea has undertaken
important measures to implement the program of reforms geared towards improving: (i)
restructuring public expenditures, (ii) intra-sectoral resource utilization in priority sectors,
and (iii) budget implementation and monitoring.
5.    Restructuring public expenditures. Based on extensive consultations at the grass-roots
level, the Government reoriented public expenditures toward the priority sectors of education,
health, road maintenance, and rural development, in the context of a medium-term expenditure
framework (MTEF). Non-wage recurrent budcgetary allocations for the four priority sectors were
raised from 27.6 percent of the total in 1997 to 30.9 percent in 1998. Furthermore, the
Government increased budgetary allocations to the four priority sectors to 31.5 percent in 1999.
However, budget execution remained very low. Actual spending in the four priority sectors
amounted to 24 percent of the total in 1998 compared to 31.5 percent in 1997.
6.    On the basis of total recurrent expenditures, including wages, the share of the four
priority sectors in budget allocations increased from 39.7 percent in 1997 to 40.9 percent in
1998. This was not followed in the execution phase. In fact, the actual share of the priority
areas in the total budget declined to 39.5 percent in 1998 compared to 43.2 percent in 1997.
7.    Improving Intra-Sectoral Resource Utilization in Priority Sectors. Progress was
made by the government, to the extent that the amount of non-wage recurrent expenditures
committed to the four priority sectors rose to 30 billions GNF in 1998 from about 23 billions
GNF in 1997 (Table 3). As a result, the share of non-wage recurrent expenditures amounted
to 25 percent in 1998 compared to 22.3 percent in 1997. The share reached 32.2 percent for
the first nine months of 1999. Despite the efforts made, the budgetary execution rate for non-
wage recurrent expenditures remained low, with only 69.3 percent for operations and
maintenance in 1998 compared to 104.3 percent for the wage component, implying that the
government objectives were not reached. The wage bill accounted for most of all spending,
seriously threatening the Government's ability to deliver quality services. A sectoral
breakdown of expenditures shows an undesirable trend. In education, salaries and transfers
accounted for 90 percent of total recurrent spending. This was exacerbated in the rural
development sector where salaries still accounted for over 95 percent of all recurrent
expenditures.
8.    Improving Budget Implementation and Monitoring. Efforts to improve budget
implementation and monitoring achieved partial success. The reform of expenditure control
had not yet taken root and there have been delays in the implementation of a computer
system for budget and expenditure management. The fact that effective expenditure control
is taking time to achieve is an indication of the complex political economy of this reform and
supports the notion that it requires a policy instrument (to create more demand for good fiscal
management) in addition to technical assistance. It is also important to acknowledge that the
reforms taken are partly due to pressure from external donors. All computer systems
installed or extended by the project are dependent on continued extemal support for their
effective operation.



iii
9.    Bank Performance. The Bank's performance was satisfactory. Lessons drawn from
previous Bank adjustment lending in Guinea shaped the preparation and the design of the
operation. In particular, a Public Expenditure Review provided the analytical foundations to
guide the recommended spending restructuring. The Bank also correctly identified the risks
associated with the operation and proposed ways to mitigate them. However, the Bank's
actions were not always consistent with the analysis it did. For instance, the use of an
adjustment lending tool instead of a technical assistance project was justified on the grounds
that it provided incentives to the Ministry of Finance to make necessary reforms. However,
the design of the project in a two-tranche disbursement, with the bulk of the disbursement of
-the credit up-front, seriously weakened this argument. In addition, while the Bank stressed
the implementation risk, and raised the importance of heavy supervision with a strong
capacity building component, delays in the preparation of a related Capacity Building Project
did not allow the Government to prevent this implementation risk from occurring. With
regard to performance indicators, although the policy intermediate output indicators were
appropriate for this operation, the final outcome indicators, though pertinent, were not
monitorable within such a short period. Finally, the strict focus in the program design and
monitoring on only non-wage recurrent expenditures was a weakness. This focus was
intentional in order to keep the reform manageable. Despite the fact that the Government did
increase this category of expenditures in 1998, and even complied with the criteria agreed
with the Bank regarding the amounts to be spent through end-June 1998, it also increased
wage expenditures, ending up with a share of non-wage to total recurrent expenditures in the
health sector lower in 1998 than 1997. This ratio increased for education and rural
development but was much lower than expected. As a result the total non-wage expenditures
component for the four priority sectors remained low in 1998.
10.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory.
Several measures are not yet effective. This is the case, for instance, of reforms of the
Ministry of Agriculture, the restructuring plan for the Department of Treasury, and the
elaboration and dissemination of performance indicators. Moreover, actual disbursements
were lower than the allocated amount for the priority sectors.
11.   Assessment of Outcome. Due to the short period of time elapsed since the program
ended, it is premature to assess the outcome of the operation, especially where it concerns
sectoral policies. With respect to fiscal discipline, there is probably a stronger basis for future
budget preparation as this operation strengthened the role of the budget as a management
tool. However, it is too soon to assess the impact of the relevant budgetary operations on
growth, poverty reduction and social conditions. With respect to the prioritization of
expenditures, the achievements are marginal as the share of priority sectors in the total
budget actually decreased in 1998, and as marginal improvement in the intra-sectoral
composition left unchanged the chronic under-funding of non-wage expenditures. With
respect to sectoral outcomes, data are not yet available on results. Nevertheless, there is an
indication that the gross enrollment rate in basic education increased from 51 percent in 1997
to 53 percent in 1999, although it is not appropriate to attribute this entirely to the
empowerment in resource input into the sector as a result of the MTEF.
LESSONS LEARNED
12.   Three lessons may be drawn from the implementation of the Guinea PEMAC. First,
the use of an adjustment lending facility to support an overhaul of a country's public



iv
expenditure management should be complemented by investment or technical support that
addresses the capacity issue. While the Guinea PEMAC provided reasonable evidence that an
adjustment operation is a valid instrument, it shows that it is critical that in the design of
similar operations, attention should be paid to careful sequencing with related operations
dealing with capacity building
13.   Second, Guinea experience shows that a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) should cover all government budget, not just selected priority sectors or components
of the priority sector budgets. Nevertheless, it is important not to over estimate
implementation capacity of government. When weak implementation capacity exists (in the
case of Guinea), a gradual approach that emphasizes two key elements should be taken into
account in the design of the budget. Budget design should include: (i) hard budget constraints
or ceilings for all ministries including non-MTEF ones, and (ii) an explicit adjustment
mechanism that would, in case of adverse fiscal shock, reallocate resources between MTEF
and non-MTEF sectors as well as between wage and non-wage recurrent expenditures.
14.   Third, in the design of quick-disbursing operations, the choice of impact indicators
needs careful reflection so that they are monitorable within the time framework of the
operation. Where outcome indicators are not verifiable within the typical period covered by
such an operation, one should be content with policy intermediate output indicators. To be
sure, it would be useful to keep an eye on final outcome indicators to help formulate a good
program, but these should not be included as monitorable impact indicators.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Since the mid-I 980s, Guinea has embarked with the support of the Bank and the Fund on a
series of comprehensive economic and financial programs aimed at revitalizing the economy by
introducing market mechanisms to enhance efficiency in the allocation of resources. These programs
have striven to fortify the budgetary position by strengthening revenue collection and subjecting
budgetary expenditures to strict discipline. Notwithstanding some improvements, the Guinean
economy continues to be confronted by financial, structural, and institutional constraints, and often in
order to maintain overall equilibrium in government financial operations, shortfalls in revenue have
been compensated by cuts in expenditures, sometimes in sectors of high developmental priority.
2.    Following a severe terms of trade deterioration during the 1990-94 period -- when prices of
bauxite declined by 33 percent, which led to a sharp decline in fiscal revenue from the mining sector
equivalent to 7.5 percentage points of GDP -- and frequent expenditure overruns, Guinea has
experienced repeated fiscal crises. To deal with the considerably worsened financial position, the
Government initiated in July 1996 bold remedial actions to combat fraud (particularly in customs),
reduce fiscal exemptions, increase fiscal revenue with the introduction of the value-added-tax, and
control government expenditures. In support of the Government's commitment, the IMF approved a
three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) which focuses on restoring financial
discipline and improving resource mobilization. IDA approved in December 1997 a Public
Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) to help the Government improve the management of
public expenditures.
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
3.    The purpose of the PEMAC was to support a comprehensive policy package to improve
expenditure allocation, control, and monitoring and to help budget execution for a lasting fiscal
adjustment. The project had two main components. The first aimed at restructuring public
expenditures toward four priority areas (education, health, rural development, and road maintenance).
These four sectors, which comprised seven line ministries, were expected to adopt in fiscal year 1998
a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF). The second component of the project was designed
to strengthen budgetary execution and control through the adoption of a computerized expenditure
monitoring system; more rigorous implementation of the regulatory framework especially for
financial control and procurement, and the standardization and simplification of budgetary processes.
The elaboration and implementation of the medium term policy in public expenditure management
was to be supported by a capacity building project which was expected to provide the resources and
technical assistance required to implement the far-reaching policy agenda. The policy agenda links
policy making, planning and budgeting and develops capacity to improve budgeting outcomes and
the quality and delivery of public service.
4.    Restructuring Public Expenditures. Reorienting public expenditures according to the
above strategic priorities was to be done through the MTEF. In line with this, in budget year 1998,
the Government decided to increase the share of the non-wage recurrent budget of the four priority
sectors from 25.5 percent budgetary allocations in 1997 to 29.2 percent in 1998. Although concrete
figures had not been determined for the following two years, the Government has committed to
further increase the share of non-wage recurrent expenditures allocated to the priority sectors. In



2
education 1,600 new teachers should have been recruited for the academic year 1997-1998, this trend
was expected to continue over the next years.
5.    Improving Budget Implementation and Monitoring. The Government sought to improve
budget implementation and monitoring by adopting a computer-based financial information system.
Besides ensuring the control of budget implementation, the wide dissemination of information that
had been restricted to Ministry of Finance staff was expected to improve transparency and
accountability. In the same vein, public accounts (including Treasury accounts) were expected to be
audited by a team of experts under the guidance of a senior inspector from the French Treasury
Department with the aim of producing in 1998, for the first time in Guinea's history, actual (realized)
expenditures for budget year 1996.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
6.    Policy reforms under PEMAC have achieved some meaningful results in spite of the shortfall
in revenues and the unforeseen need for increased military expenditures related to regional security.
In addition, PEMAC helped the Bank advance its policy dialogue in the key sectors. Beginning in
1998, seven ministries covering four priority sectors (education, health, rural development, and road
maintenance) piloted implementation of the MTEF. The pilot was confined to the recurrent budget
and, within that, to non-wage recurrent expenditure.
7.    Restructuring public expenditures. Based on extensive consultations at the grass-roots
level, the Government reoriented public expenditures toward the priority sectors of education, health,
road maintenance, and rural development, in the context of a medium-term expenditure framework
(MTEF). Non-wage recurrent budgetary allocations for the four priority sectors were raised from
27.6 percent of the total in 1997 to 30.9 percent in 1998. Furthermore, the Government increased
budgetary allocations to the four priority sectors to 31.5 percent in 1999. However, budget execution
remained very low. Actual spending in the four priority sectors amounted to 24 percent of the total
in 1998 compared to 31.5 percent in 1997.
Table 1: Budget Allocation and Execution for non-wages recurrent expenditures*
in priority sectors (in GNF billion and in percent)
_19                     [.... 199-.-; 199pt.. I.9
Sector               BA      BE I   BAI             BA_         BE
Education                       18.8   15.0   23.9   19.61   17.1        19.5
Health                           3.7    2.2    4.5    2.5i    5.41        3.1
Rural development                1.1    0.4    1.7    0.9       1.41      0.4
Road Fund                        7.0    6.0    8.6    6.5    11.51        6.5
Total priority sectors          30.6   23.6   38.7   29.5    45.31       29.5
Total of the budget          11        7      125.31  123.0   143.71     91.2
SD \$V      f:ector  i;S:f:V ;70 000000ABAi  0BE  B  BA E     A  BE
________ducation__    7.%    0.%    9.1%~ 16.0%!  18.8%                21.4%/
Health                         3.4%1  2.9%    3.6%    2.1%    3.8%      3.4%
Rural development              1.0%    0.5%    1.4%    0.8%    0.9%     0.4%
Road Fund                      6.3%    8.0%    6.9%    5.2%    8.0%1    7.1%
Total priority sectors        27.6%   31.5%   30.9%0  24.0%   31.5%    32.3%
Total of the budget          100.0%  100.0%  100.0O/oj 100.0%  100.0%    100.0%
Source: Ministry of Finance (MOF).  BA: Budget Allocation;   BE: Budget Execution
*Note: Non-wage recurrent expenditures include operations and maintenance, transfers & subsidies.



3
8.     On the basis of total recurrent expenditures, the share of the four priority sectors in budget
allocations increased from 39.7 percent in 1997 to 40.9 percent in 1998 (Table 2). This was not
followed in the execution phase. In fact, the actual share of the priority areas in the total budget
declined to 39.5 percent in 1998 compared to 43.2 percent in 1997. This result is due mainly to the
unforeseen increase in military spending related to regional security.!
Table 2: Relative share of priority sectors in total recurrent expenditures.
(GNF billion unless otherwise indicated)
_________________________________________7_ 1997        98        1999*
Total allocation                                         290.7      306.0       335.8
Priority sectors allocation                              115.4      125.2       138.4
Priority sectors allocation (in percentage of total)      39.7%      40.9%       41.2%
Total execution                                          245.0      304.2       222.2
Priority sectors execution                               105.8      120.2        92.3
Priority sectors execution (in percentage of total)       43.2%  -   39.5%       41.5%
Note: *Execution for 1999 is estimated from actual spending at end-September
9.    Improving Intra-Sectoral Resource Utilization in Priority Sectors. Progress was made by
the government, to the extent that the amount of non-wage recurrent expenditures committed to the
four priority sectors rose to 30 billions GNF in 1998 from about 23 billions GNF in 1997 (Table 3).
As a result, the share of non-wage recurrent expenditures amounted to 25 percent in 1998 compared
to 22.3 percent in 1997. The share reached 32.2 percent for the first nine months of 1999. Despite
the efforts made, the budgetary execution rate for non-wage recurrent expenditures remained low,
with only 69.3 percent for operations and maintenance in 1998 compared to 104.3 percent for the
wage component, implying that the government objectives were not reached. The wage bill
accounted for most of all spending, seriously threatening the Government's ability to deliver quality
services. A sectoral breakdown of expenditures shows an undesirable trend. In education, salaries
and transfers accounted for 90 percent of total recurrent spending. This was exacerbated in the rural
development sector where salaries still accounted for over 95 percent of all recurrent expenditures.
Table 3: Budget execution for recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors.
(in GNF billion)
Jan-Sep
__            _ _ _             ~~~~      ~~199  1998 L 1999
Total Priority Sectors                                1      105.8       120.2      92.3
Wages (Title II)                                             82.2       90.2       62.6
Non-wages expenditures (Title III and IV)                   23.6        30.0       29.7
Operation and maintenance (Title III)                       14.7       17.1       19.6
Transfers and subsidies (Title IV)                           8.9       12.9       10.1
In percentage of total recurrent expenditures of Priority Sectors
Non-wages expenditures (Title III and IV)                  22.3%       25.0%f   32.2%
Operation and maintenance (Title III)                     13.9%       14.2%      21.2%||
Transfers and subsidies (Title IV)                         8.4%       10.7%1    11.0%
In 1998, unforseen military spending amounted to approximately 20% of the total non-wage recurrent expenditures.



4
10.   As to non-wage recurrent expenditures, the Government disbursed a total amount of non-
wage recurrent budgetary resources that surpassed the floor levels specified for the priority sectors
for the end of June 1998 (Table 4). This effort was not sustained for the second semester 1998 due to
higher spending on regional security, declining bauxite and alumina prices and delays in
implementing reforms in the agricultural sector and the Ministry of Finance.
Table 4: Targets and disbursement at end-June 1998 for non-wages
recurrent expenditures (in GNF billion)
IForlevels     Disburisement
Road Fund                                2.0              4.3
|  Health                                 2.0             2.0
Rural Development                         0.635           0.7
3.8             4.0 (a)
l____________________________________ ________________       9.0 (b)
(a) Not including transfers to universities;
(b) Including transfers
11.   Education.  Efforts to reorient public expenditures within this sector achieved partial
success. Progress was made in budgetary execution for operation and maintenance expenditures,
which increased from 9.2 percent in 1997 to 11 percent in 1998 of the recurrent budget (Table 5).
However, this progress would have been less significant if the program target of 1600 contractual
teachers instead of the actual recruitment of 1500 teachers was taking into account. In addition, the
need to redress the imbalances in the distribution of resources among primary, secondary, and
tertiary education continued. The Government had given added importance to the quality of
education by meeting the program targets of GNF 5000 and GNF 8000 equivalent per primary and
secondary student, respectively, for pedagogical materials.
Table 5: Budget execution for recurrent expenditures in the Education Sector
(in percentage of the sector total recurrent expenditures)
______         -____  ____           1997        19999
Total Education                                 100.0      100.0     100.0
Non-wages expenditures (Title III and IV)      22.7        26.1      32.1
Operation and maintenance (Title III)          9.2        11.1      17.7
Transfers and subsidies (Title IV)             13.4       15.0      14.4
12.   Rural development. Restructuring public spending in the rural sector only went part of the
way. The share of non-wage recurrent expenditures represented 4.8 percent in 1998 compared to 2
percent in 1997 (Table 6). Although the Government adopted a reorganization program for the
Agricultural Ministry (MAEF), as agreed under the PEMAC, no significant steps to transform the
MAEF into a more efficient development and service-oriented agency had been implemented yet.
Delays in implementing reforns and other accompanying measures that were identified, including
training and staff reduction, were not carried out in an adequate way.



5
Table 6: Budget execution for recurrent expenditures in the rural development sector
(in percentage of the sector total recurrent expenditures)
_ __   1997  1998 Jan-Sep
1997        1         1999
Rural Development
Total                                             100.0       100.0      100.0
Non-wages expenditures (Title III and IV)          2.0         4.8       3.1
Operation and maintenance (Title III)             2.0         4.6       3.1
Transfers and subsidies (Title IV)                0.0         0.3       0.0
13.   Health. In spite of policy improvements which allowed development in health infrastructure
and better performance in some areas such as immunization and pre-natal care, Guinea's current
health status indicators still compare poorly with other sub-Saharan countries. Traditionally the
allocation for wages is spent over 100%, while the non-wage recurrent budget (covering important
activities such as maintenance, supervision and drugs) is insufficient and poorly executed. Due to the
PEMAC, the non-wage recurrent allocation to the health sector has increased during the last two
years. However, efforts to actually reallocate resources from wage to non-wage recurrent
expenditures have been difficult. As a result, the non-wage recurrent spending on health (from total
recurrent spending) has actually decreased (from 15.2 % in 1997 to 14.5 % in 1998 (Table 7)
Table 7: Budget execution for recurrent expenditures in the Health sector.
(in percentage of the sector total recurrent expenditures)
Health                                      198Jan-Sept.
____17 t             18     199
Total                                             100.0       100.0     100.0
Non-wages expenditures (Title III and IV)         15.2        14.5      26.7
Operation and maintenance (Title III)            15.2         5.9      14.8
Transfers and subsidies (Title IV)                0.0         8.6      11.8_
14.   Roads.  One major constraint to the management of the sector continued to be the
unavailability on a timely basis of the resources allocated to road maintenance and the capacity of the
Ministry of Public Works to plan and implement yearly maintenance programs. Allocations to Genie
Rural which is in charge of the feeder road network continued to shortfall and arrive erratically. To
overcome this problem, the Government has adopted the principle of the so-called "second
generation road fund", which will be funded by levies designated as user charges separately from
general taxation as part of an agenda to commercialize the road sector.  In that context the
Government has: (i) completed a study to look into the various ways of establishing and funding a
financially autonomous road agency; (ii) organized a seminar bringing together the representatives of
both the public and private sectors and of the donor community to discuss the challenges facing the
road sector and the mobilization and management of resources for road maintenance in which users'
organizations have to play an important role through a new, privately managed road agency, and (iii)
discussed the key results of the seminar at a cabinet meeting. It is expected that the Government will
finalize setting up of the road fund during the spring of 2000.



6
Table 8: Budget execution for the Road Fund
(in GNF billion)
Iltj Road; it00Ct fundV   D         X  :   0 S0 A0;            i Jan-Sep
___   ~~~~~1199&'    1999
Road Fund                                        6.0        6.5       6.5
Source: Government budget data
15.   Improving Budget Implementation  and Monitoring. Efforts to improve budget
implementation and monitoring achieved partial success. The reform of expenditure control did not
achieve full impact and delays in the implementation of a computer system for budget and
expenditure management were an additional handicap. The fact that effective expenditure control
remains a problem is an indication of the complex political economy of this reform and supports the
notion that it requires a policy instrument (to create more demand for good fiscal management) in
addition to technical assistance. It is also important to acknowledge that the reforms taken are partly
due to pressure from external donors. All computer systems installed or extended by the project are
dependent on continued external support for their effective operation.
16.   In parallel with efforts to restructure expenditures using the MTEF approach, key measures
adopted by the Government since the project became effective in December 1997 included:
*  Strengthening the monitoring of budget implementation with the adoption of a computer-
based public sector financial information system. The system helped to: (i) partially prevent
expenditure commitment occurring outside of this system; (ii) better identify causes of delays
in the processing of budget execution; and (iii) computerize information on budget
implementation for each sectoral ministry. Information on commitments and the issuance of
payment orders are now disseminated on a regular basis. Besides ensuring the control of
budget implementation, the wide dissemination of budget information, which was formerly
restricted to selected staff at the Ministry of Finance, has improved transparency and budget
accountability. As a result, budget implementation measured by the ratio of payment orders
to allocations has significantly improved when compared to 1997 levels.
-  All actual expenditures at end-1997 have been audited and the report sent to the "Cour des
Comptes" at the Supreme Court for examination. This helped clean up the government
financial accounts as of end-1997, which set the ground for the government to produce
realized expenditure reports (loi de reglement).
* The regulatory framework that governs budget implementation has been streamlined and
strengthened with the creation of a separate Financial Control Department. The roles among
the different departments of the Ministry of Finance are better defined than before. This
action was supplemented by the strengthening of budget and finance staff in all line
ministries.
*  A new budget classification sharply reduced the role of the Directorate of the Budget in
budget implementation by the reduction of the so-called "depenses communes".
*  The effective implementation of the new code and the publication of a bi-weekly
procurement newsletter (journal des Marches) have improved government procurement.
Whereas in 1997 only 20 percent of government purchases were handled through tenders,
this ratio has improved to 61 percent in 1998.



7
17.   Significant reform in the Department of the Treasury, Ministry of Economy and Finance had
taken place. The ministerial decree detailing the scope and structure of the new Department to be
renamed Department of the Treasury and Public Accounting was issued in September 1998. The
new set-up involved a clear proposal of two separate functions, payments and accounting. Released
from his payment responsibilities, which were taken over by regional public accountants, the
Director of the reorganized department became able to spend more time on administrative and
control tasks.
D. MAJOR FACTORS WHICH AFFECTED THE OPERATION
18.   As stated above, budgetary executions for the priority sectors were lower than the allocations.
In addition, the imbalance between wage and non wage recurrent expenditures was not properly
tackled. The following factors have largely contributed to these results.
Factors within the control of the Government
19.   While the new budgetary procedures called for the effective implementation of several prior
actions starting October 1997, key appoihtments in the Ministry of Finance were delayed, and the
required training program started only in late 1998. As a result, important start-up problems occurred
which lengthened the process of spending requests. Although budgetary allocations were in line with
the credit recommendation, actual spending was much lower, particularly for non-wages recurrent
expenditures.
20.   The government also delayed the reform of the Ministry of Agriculture due in particular to
the resistance to the retrenchment plan. Despite a substantial increase in non-wage recurrent
spending, its share (compared to total recurrent expenditures) remained low, undermining the quality
of the government program in rural development.
Factors outside the control of the Government
21.   Guinea was adversely affected in 1998 by weakness in bauxite and aluminum prices which
resulted in economic downturn and shortfall in revenues equivalent to 0.7 percent of GDP. Spending
had to be sequestered in the second semester of 1998 to meet the fiscal targets set under IMF-
supported programs. In addition, deteriorating regional security also spurred military spending at the
expense of other sectors including the four priority sectors.
22.   The factors affecting operations were foreseen in the assessment of risks in the report and
recommendation of the Bank President for this operation. The countermeasures suggested -- strong
focus on ownership by national working teams of the PEMAC; design of the PEMAC with a focus
on prior actions; and close coordination with the IMF to take corrective measures in case of severe
revenue shortfall -- turned out to be insufficient to mitigate these risks.
E. SUSTAINABILITY OF REFORMS
23.   Despite the start-up problems encountered in the implementation of the program, the reforms
supported by the PEMAC are likely to be sustainable for at least three reasons. First, the reforms are
based on deep analytical work and extensive consultations at the grass-roots level. The stakeholders
were also part of the design of the overall program, particularly in the selection of the priority sectors
and the performance indicators. In addition to the analytical support, there is, therefore, a strong
consensus on these reforms shared by key staff at the Ministries of Plan and Finance. In the long run



8
these factors are fundamental for the sustainability of the reforms. As an illustration, the government
extended the MTEF approach to three new sectors in 1999 and decided to extend it to all ministries
by the year 2000. Moreover, the Government increased the allocation to priority sectors in 1999
particularly for the Road Fund. Second, there is a strong commitment at the highest level of the
country to tackle the issue of good governance and greater transparency in fiscal management.
Third, with Bank assistance, the Government has already embarked on the preparation of follow-up
operations in the areas of public expenditure management and good governance with (i) a Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC IV) and (ii) a Capacity Building Project for Service Delivery (CBSD).
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory. Lessons drawn from previous Bank adjustment
lending in Guinea shaped the preparation and the design of the operation. In particular, a Public
Expenditure Review provided the analytical foundations to guide the recommended spending
restructuring. The Bank also correctly identified the risks associated with the operation and proposed
ways to mitigate them. However, the Bank's actions were not always consistent with the analysis it
did. For instance, the use of an adjustment lending tool instead of a technical assistance project was
justified on the grounds that it provided incentives to the Ministry of Finance to make necessary
reforms. However, the design of the project in a two-tranche disbursement, with the bulk of the
disbursement of the credit up-front, seriously weakened this argument. In addition, while the Bank
stressed the implementation risk, and raised the importance of heavy supervision with a strong
capacity building component, delays in the preparation of a related Capacity Building Project did not
allow the Government to prevent this implementation risk from occurring.  With regard to
performance indicators, although the policy intermediate output indicators were appropriate for this
operation, the final outcome indicators, though pertinent, were not monitorable within such a short
period. Finally, the strict focus in the program design and monitoring on only non-wage recurrent
expenditures was a weakness. This focus was intentional in order to keep the reform manageable.
Despite the fact that the Government did increase this category of expenditures in 1998, and even
complied with the criteria agreed with the Bank regarding the amounts to be spent through end-June
1998, it also increased wage expenditures, ending up with a share of non-wage to total recurrent
expenditures in the health sector lower in 1998 than 1997. This ratio increased for education and
rural development but was much lower than expected. As a result the total non-wage expenditures
component for the four priority sectors remained low in 1998.
G.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   The Borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory (this rating takes into account the
fact that some parts of the program were not implemented on schedule. In Annex I, table 1, the
scoring translates this into deficient because there is no provision for marginally satisfactory in the
table format). Several measures are not yet effective. This is the case, for instance, of reforms of the
Ministry of Agriculture, the restructuring plan for the Department of Treasury, and the elaboration
and dissemination of performance indicators. Moreover, in the course of program implementation
actual expenditures were lower than the allocated amount for the priority sectors.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
26.   Due to the short period of time elapsed since the program went into place, it is premature to
assess the final outcomes of the operation, in terms of the development impact of improved
expenditure management. We therefore limit an assessment to intermediate outcomes - expenditure
restructuring and control of their execution. With respect to fiscal discipline, there is probably a



9
stronger basis for future budget preparation as this operation strengthened the role of the budget as a
management tool. With respect to the prioritization of non-wage expenditures, the positive results
were achieved, even if the share of priority sectors in the total budget actually decreased in 1998.
The improvement in the intra-sectoral composition left unchanged the chronic under-funding of non-
wage expenditures, and additional efforts will be necessary to deal with the under funding issue.
With respect to sectoral policies, while there is indication that the gross enrollment rate in basic
education increased from 51 percent in 1997 to 53 percent in 1999, this increase may not be
attributable entirely to improved funding of the sector.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.   Two related operations are being prepared. First, a structural adjustment credit (SAC IV)
will help consolidate the progress achieved under the PEMAC and will accompany the government's
efforts in the areas of public enterprise reform, governance improvement and corruption control.
Second, the Bank will also provide support for institutional strengthening and capacity building, with
a focus on enhancing the government's efficiency as a provider of basic public services. In this
context , the CBSD seeks to promote sustained economic and social development by removing the
institutional constraints which hinder the effective and efficient delivery of basic public services at
the local level. In its first phase, the CBSD will focus on strengthening the process of budgetary
planning, allocation and implementation by: (i) decentralizing budget decisions to the prefecture; (ii)
increasing the ability of the prefectoral administration to lead and monitor the delivery of public
services; (iii) establishing effective communication with beneficiaries; and (iv) introducing a
performance-based incentive system. The institutional changes would be applied on a pilot basis to
four priority sectors (education, health, rural development and justice) in four prefectures, involving
24 rural development communities.
J. LESSONS LEARNED
28.   Three lessons may be drawn from the implementation of the Guinea PEMAC. First, the use
of an adjustment lending facility to support an overhaul of a country public expenditure management
should be complemented by investment or technical support that addresses the capacity issue. While
the Guinea PEMAC provided reasonable evidence that an adjustment operation is a valid instrument,
it shows that it is critical that in the design of similar operations, attention should be paid to careful
sequencing with related operations dealing with capacity building.
29.   Second, Guinea's experience shows that a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
should cover all government budget, not just selected priority sectors or components of the priority
sector budgets. Nevertheless, it is important not to over estimate implementation capacity of
government. When weak implementation capacity exists, (in the case of Guinea ), a gradual
approach that emphasizes two key elements should be taken into account in the design of the budget.
Budget process should include: (i) hard budget constraints or ceilings for all ministries including
non-MTEF ones, and (ii) an explicit adjustment mechanism, that would in the event of an adverse
fiscal shock, permit the reallocation of resources between MTEF and non-MTEF sectors as well as
between wage and non-wage recurrent expenditures.
30.   Third, in the design of quick-disbursing operations, the choice of impact indicators needs
careful reflection so that they are monitorable within the time framework of the operation. Where
outcome indicators are not verifiable within the typical period covered by such an operation, one
should be content with policy intermediate output indicators. To be sure, it would be useful to keep
an eye on final outcome of indicators to help formulate a good program, but these should not be
included as monitorable impact indicators.



PART II: ATTACHMENT TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Reforms Supported by IDA Adjustment Credits and Waivers
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Performance Indicators
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project (Not applicable)
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits (Not applicable)
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements (Not applicable)
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                              X
Sectoral policies                                   X
Financial objectives                                                                X
Institutional development                           X
Physical objectives                                                                 X
Poverty Reduction                                                  X
Gender Issues                                                                       x
Other social objectives                                            X
Environmental objectives                                                            X
Public Sector Management                            X
Private Sector Development                                         X
B. Project Sustainability             Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                   Highly            Satisfactory          Deficient
satisfactory              .
Identification                                               X
Preparation Assistance                                       X
Appraisal                                                    X
Supervision                                                  X
. Borrower Performance                Highly
I __________________________      satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                                  X
Implementation                                                                   X
Covenant Compliance                                          X
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly                 .Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
____-   '  iX  . ,,x



12
Table 2: Reforms Supported by IDA Adjustment Credits and Waivers
- Cedit Title                   Key Rfor    upoed                  Waivers of
YX; ti 0ear 0 t 0 of  ap ro a  ___________________________________     Cditi nlsS
First Structural Adjustment  Providing support to the transition towards    None
Program (SAC I)             market economy; downsizing the public sector;
1986             flattening out the economy.
Second Structural Adjustment   Supporting economic reforms efforts to establish  None
Program (SAC II)            a free market economy; reform of the civil
1988             service; continuation of reforms of public
enterprises; uplifting legal and institutional
framework to spur the promotion and
development of the private sector; developing
the overall social policy.
Financial Sector Adjustment    *  Strengthen the monetary, regulatory,      None
(CASFI)                     supervisory and judicial environment of
1994             financial institution operations;
* Develop a bridge between the informal and
formal financial sectors;
*  Improve financial institutions' management
and operational capacity and operational
capacity.
Public Expenditure          Shifting public expenditures through a medium   None
term expenditure framework (MTEF) to benefit     o
MCredit (PEMAC d)           four priority sectors (education, health, rural
Credit (PEMAC I)            development, road maintenance); improving
1997             budget implementation and control through
computer-based public expenditure channels
establishing a framework of rules and
regulations to govern financial control and
procurement; standardization and simplification
of budgetary procedures.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Prject Cycle                Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification                                 November 1996       November 1996
Preparation                                    July 1997           July 1997
Appraisal                                      Septemberl 8, 1997    Septemberl8, 1997
Negotiations                                   November 3-7, 1997  November 3-7, 1997
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)  October 16, 1997  October 16, 1997
Board Presentation                             December 16, 1997   December 16, 1997
Signing                                        December 16, 1997   December 16, 1997
Effectiveness                                  December 23, 1997   December 23, 1997
First Tranche Release                          December 23, 1997   December 23, 1997
Second Tranche Release                         November 14, 1998   November 14, 1998
Project Completion                             December 31, 1998   December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                                   December 23, 1998   December 23, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY1998                FY1999
Appraisal estimate                                      45.00                 70.00
Actual                                                  45.00                 70.00
Actual as % of estimate                                 100%                  100%
Date of final disbursement: 11/14/98



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Actions Taken Before Board Presentation
Maintaining satisfactory macroeconomic environment.        This condition was fulfilled
II. Actions Taken Before Second Tranche Release
I . Maintaining continuing satisfactory performance on the  This condition was fulfilled
macroeconomic front.
2. Disburse of a total amount of non wage recurrent budgetary  This condition was fulfilled
resources equivalent to at least GNF 3.8 billion for education,
GNF 2 billion each for health and road maintenance, and GNF
635 million for rural development during the January-June 1998
period.
3. Recruitment of at least 1600 additional primary school teachers   This condition was fulfilled
for school year 1998-99 and spent on pedagogical materials an
amount equivalent to GNF 5000 per student at the primary
school level and GNF 8000 per student at the secondary.
4. Submit to IDA the draft comprehensive audit (Projet de loi de    This condition was fulfilled
reglement global) covering the implementation
5. Submit to IDA a restructuring plan for the Department of the  This condition was fulfilled
Treasury, Ministry of Economy and Finance.
6. Submit to the Association a report of such scope and details  This condition was fulfilled
agreed upon with the Association on the execution of the 1998
budget, including a report describing the progress achieved in
the implementation of (i) the revised budgetary procedures
adopted in July 1997; and (ii) the new procurement procedures
enacted in November 1997.
7. Adopt a reorganization plan for the Agriculture Ministry  This condition was fulfilled
(MAEF) considered satisfactory by IDA.
8. Submit an action plan and a timetable acceptable to the  This condition was fulfilled
Association for the purposes of establishing a financially
autonomous road agency to ensure the timely availability of
funding required for road maintenance.



15
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators
Policy Indicators                 Interiediate Indicators        Outcome Indicators
A. Fiscal Discipline
* Adopt expenditure goal        * Improved accuracy and      * Achieve overall budgetary
consistent with a stable       timeliness of public          outcomes
macroeconomic framework         expenditure information
* Produce audited accounts of    * Ex-post reconciliation of    * Stronger basis for future
past budgets                    accounts and publication of    budget elaboration
fiscal results
B. Prioritization of Expenditure Composition
* Adoption of a framework for    * Increased expenditure in    * See below for sector-specific
articulating strategic allocations    priority sectors      indicators
* Sectoral review of competing    * Issue quarterly projections   * Meet sector-specific
priorities                      of budgetary needs by        performance indicators
priority ministries         which will be disseminated
C. Sectoral Policies
* Reach expenditure shares for:
- health                      - immunization rate          - infant mortality rate
- education                   - school attendance ratio    - literacy level
- road maintenance            - timely payments to road    - promotion of private sector
maintenance contractors
* Reorganize Ministry of        * Better quality of          * Stronger agricultural growth
Agriculture                     agricultural services
Table 7: Studies Included in Projet
(Not Applicable)



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
Aail s                     AcalFates esi at
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs              costs    costs
70       70                 70       70
Total                                        70       70                 70
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal stimate~  A  tua/ltst estimates
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs               costs    costs
IBRDIIDA                                    70        70                 70       70
AfDB                                         13       13                 13       13
Total                                       83        83                 83       83
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not Applicable)



17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan Agreement                Description of Covenant              Comments
Section
Schedule 2.01 (a)  The Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence  Complied
satisfactory to it that it has actually disbursed a total
amount of funds equivalent to at least 45% of the budget
appropriated for non-wage recurrent expenditures during
the first semester of FY1998 for each of the ministries
responsible respectively for education, public health, road
maintenance and rural development; and
Schedule 2.01 (b)  The Borrower has recruited at least 1,600 new primary  Complied
school teachers for school year 1998-99 and spent for
pedagogical materials an amount equivalent to $5 per
student at the primary school level and $8 per student at the
secondary school level.
Schedule 2.02    The Borrower has adopted  a set of performance          Complied
benchmarks and has established an appropriate monitoring
system to obtain relevant feedback on the quality of public
services delivered to beneficiaries.
Schedule 2.03    The Borrower has submitted to the Association: (a) an   Complied
audit of its budget for FY1997 as executed; and (b) a
restructuring plan for the Direction du Tresor, acceptable to
the Association.
Schedule 2.04    The Borrower has submitted to the Association a report of  Complied
such scope and details agreed upon with the Association on
the execution of the 1998 budget, including a progress
report on how well: (a) its new budgetary procedures have
been adhered to and followed in the processing  of
expenditures during the first semester of FY1998; and its
new procurement procedures have been followed in the
procurement of goods and services during the first semester
of FY1998.
Schedule 2.05    The Borrower has submitted to the Association a         Complied
restructuring program of MAEF acceptable to the
Association.
Schedule 2.06    The Borrower has transformed the existing Road Fund into  Underway
a financially autonomous Road Agency.                                l



18
Table 1I: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not Applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Preparation to Appraisal        34.9                   144.6
Appraisal                       30.8                    100.9
Negotiations through Board       3.7                     4.0
approval
Supervision                     35.6                    99.8
Completion
Total                   105.0                   349.3



19
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
-   -   -                            ~~~~~~~~~PerformnioceRtig
Stage of project cycle    Month/   No. of  Days in   Specialization1     Implem.    Developmn.  Types 3f
.__________________   Year  Persons  Fietd                               Status     objectives  robems3
Through Appraisal         04/97      12      60    TT1/1d/fWihth/Ag/
l_____                    Eco.
Appraisal through Board   09/97-     10      41    TTL/AglEdlRD/Rds/
approval                  10/97                    Eco.
Supervision               02/98      8       37    TTL/Ed/Hth/RD/PF/          S           S
Roads/Eco.
04/98     9        36    TTL/EdJHth/RD/PF/         S            S
Rds/Eco.
09/98     5        25    TTL/Hth/Eco.              S            S
11/98     8       29    TTL/Ed/RD/Rds/Eco.         S            S
12/98                                                                  Tranche was
disbursed.
Completion
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:    3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                                     etc.                                   etc.
Note: TTL:  Task team leader
Eco:   Economist
Ed:    Education
Hth:   Health
PF:    Public Finance
Rds:   Roads
RD:   Rural Development



20
APPENDIX I
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 3021-GUI)
A. INTRODUCTION
31.   Le present rapport, prepare par le Gouvernement guineen, rend compte de l'ex6cution du
troisieme Credit d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS III) finance par I'IDA et couvrant la periode de
Decembre 1997 A Mars 1999. Le Gouvernement guineen beneficia d'un Credit d'Ajustement
Structurel (CAS III), finance par la Banque mondiale (IDA) et d'un pret d'Ajustement Structurel
(PAS II) finance par la Banque Africaine de D6veloppement (BAD). Le CAS III a porte sur un
montant de 50,8 millions de DTS (equivalent A 70 millions de dollars US). Il a ete decaisse en deux
tranches: une premiere tranche d'un montant de US$45 millions a ete versee des l'approbation du
credit, la deuxieme tranche d'un montant de US$25 millions a ete decaissee en decembre 1998. Dans
le meme cadre, le Gouvernement a beneficie d'un pret d'ajustement structurel (PASII) finance par la
BAD s'elevant A US$13 millions.
B. OBJECTIFS
32.   Le CAS III s'integre dans l'application de la Lettre de Politique de Developpement definie par
le Gouvernement pour la periode 1997-1999. Le programme soutenu par le CAS III comportait deux
volets essentiels: la restructuration des depenses publiques, en portant plus d'interet sur les secteurs
fixes par le Gouvernement comme prioritaires, et le renforcement de 1'execution et du contr6le
budgetaires.
la restructuration et rationalisation des depenses publiques. L'enjeu de cette composante
du programme etait de reorienter les depenses selon les priorites strategiques. Les mesures
qui etaient a prendre dans ce sens visaient: (i) le developpement d'un cadre de ddpenses a
moyen terme (CDMT) pour les secteurs juges comme prioritaires; ceci A fin de permettre au
Gouvernement et aux secteurs concernes a hierarchiser les allocations budgetaires inter et
intra-sectorielles; (ii) l'amelioration des prestations des services publics, en instaurant un
systeme d'evaluation des performances et de la dissemination; et (iii) la mise en place d'un
systeme clair et rigoureux d'allocations des depenses. Pour l'application de I'approche CDMT,
quatre secteurs ont ete retenus par le Gouvernement pour l'exercice budg6taire 1998
(1'education, la sante, 1Pentretien routier et le developpement rural);
The following pages are an excerpt from the Government of Guinea's evolution report on the PEMAC program
prepared by the Ministry of Planning received on July 22, 1999.



21
*  le renforcement de l'execution et du contr6le budgetaires. La serie de mesures prevues
dans ce volet consiste a: (i) standardiser et simplifier les regles de procedures et circuits
budgetaires; (ii) renforcer le systeme informatique de gestion integre des depenses; (iii)
renforcer les fonctions de contr6le; et (iv) preparer le budget 1998 comme cas d'application
du nouvel dispositif, editer un journal des marches publics et evaluer les performances du
systeme a fin d'y apporter les am6liorations qui s'averent utiles.
C. EXECUTION DU PROGRAMME
La Restructuration et la Rationalisation des Depenses Publiques
33.   Dans ce domaine, la grande reforme s'est traduite par la prioritisation des depenses, A travers
la mise en ceuvre de l'approche CDMT (Cadre des Depenses A Moyen Terme). Conformement aux
actions definies dans le programme, l'approche CDMT a et adoptee dans l'exercice budgetaire 1998
et l'ensemble des mesures sous-jacentes (e1aboration des programmes de depenses sectorielles pour la
periode 1998-2000, evaluation des enveloppes financieres et leurs allocations pour 1998, basees sur
les projections macro-economiques, ajustement des allocations en faveur des secteurs prioritaire) ont
et executees. Depuis le lancement des reformes, les allocations budgetaires des secteurs CDMT ont
regulierement ete revues A la hausse (en 1998 et en 1999).
34.   Le CDMT a dte adopte en 1998 pour les 4 secteurs ci-apres: 1'education, la sante, le
developpement rural et l'entretien routier. Trois nouveaux secteurs (d6partements de la justice, de
l'urbanisme et de l'habitat et celui des affaires sociales) ont e  retenus par le Gouvernement pour
l'adoption du CDMT au cours de l'exercice budgetaire de 1999.
L'Amelioration du Contr6le et du Suivi de l'Execution Budgetaires
35.   Les actions envisagees ici visaient deux preoccupations essentielles de la gestion des
depenses publiques: canaliser les depenses A travers les dispositions legales en la matiere et assurer le
taux d'execution des depenses le plus eleve possible.
36.   S'agissant du contr6le des depenses, jusqu'en decembre 1997 la fonction revenait A une
Division de contr6le rattachee A la Direction Nationale du Budget. Dans le cadre du CAS III, a ete
creee une Direction Nationale du Contr6le Financier, hierarchiquement independante de la Direction
du Budget. En plus de la charge du contr6le financier, a e  confiee A la nouvelle Direction la charge
de verification effective du "service fait" aupres des beneficiaires. Le Directeur National du controle
financier fut nomme le 16 decembre 1997. Concernant 1'execution des d6penses, les mesures
suivantes ont et prises en 1998: renovation de la nomenclature budgetaire (adoption de cette
nomenclature pour les d6penses de fonctionnement); nomination et formation des DAAF (par Arrete
du Ministre des Finances) et adoption de documents reglementaires; adoption d'un nouveau circuit de
la depense publique (janvier et aofit 1998); I'elaboration d'un plan de tresorerie trimestriel; mise en
oeuvre d'un outil informatique de traitement de la depense publique et reorganisation des structures
chargees des depenses et nomination de nouveaux responsables. Pour assurer une fluidit6 des
dossiers de depense et, en meme temps, identifier et supprimer les eventuels goulots d'etranglement,
un delai de traitements des dossiers a 6te fix6 A un maximum de 5 jours pour chaque Direction
intervenant dans le circuit. Des fiches de syntheses ont et elaborees A cet effet et des evaluations
hebdomadaires ont e  instituees.



22
37.    Dans le domaine de ia gestion des marches publics, les reformes ont vise l'amelioration de la
reglementation; Iacceleration et la rationalisation des procedures de passation et d'execution des
marches; et i'amelioration de la transparence et de 1'efficacit6. Les actions suivantes ont ete menees
dans ce sens: la revision du code des march6s publics (decembre 1998); le renforcement
institutionnel et equipement de la structure nationale en charge de la coordination et du contr6le de la
passation des marches; et ltelaboration des documents d'appui et actions de formation. D'autres
actions ont complet6 les r6formes: elaboration de dossiers types d'appels d'offres; conception et
lancement d'un journal des marches publics; mise au point d'un progiciel de suivi et de contr6le de la
passation des marches.
RMformes Institutionnelles pour une meilleure prestation du Service Public
38.    Pour les secteurs CDMT, des indicateurs de performance ont ete definis et des systemes de
suivi de suivi et evaluation ex-post adoptes. Dans le meme 6lan, des avancees notables ont 6te
obtenues dans les reformes institutionnelles visant notamment le ministere de l'agriculture et le
secteur de l'entretien routier. L'ensemble du dispositif mis en place, a consolider par les reformes en
cours, doit contribuer a l'amelioration de l'offre et de la qualite des services publics.
Reformes sectorielles
39.    L'essentiel des mesures concernaient les secteurs CDMT (1'education, la sante, I'agriculture et
le secteur routier). L'interet pour ces secteurs dans le CAS III etait dejA exprime dans la
restructuration des depenses publiques, en leur allouant de credits suffisants pour l'offre des services
sociaux essentiels. Pour le niveau primaire, qui fait la priorite au sein du secteur de l'ducation, les
mesures prises ont permis le recrutement prevu de 1600 enseignants. Ont egalement ete tenus les
engagements en matiere d'acquisition de materiels pedagogiques pour UNducation primaire et
secondaire.
40.    Pour le secteur de la sante les dispositions prevues avaient vocation de garantir la
disponibilite et une repartition judicieuse des ressources entre les differentes structures sanitaires de
base (principalement pour les depenses de fonctionnement hors salaires). Les allocations des credits
ont ete conformes a cet objectif. Cependant, en raison essentiellement d'une lenteur liee a la maitrise
tardive de la nouvelle approche budgetaire, les taux d'exdcution ont et relativement faibles.
41.    Pour le secteur agricole les mesures visaient essentiellement la redefinition des fonctions
clefs du ministere et la reorganisation interne en vue d'une meilleure adaptation aux nouvelles
fonctions du departement. Les reflexions necessaires ont ete menees et un rapport a ete produit
centrant les missions du departement sur le r6le d'encadrement et de diffusion des acquis techniques
en matiere agricole. Quant au renforcement des ressources humaines du departement, conformement
aux dispositions initiales, le departement avait soumis A ses partenaires, en avril 1998, un calendrier
pour la mise en ceuvre des actions necessaires. Elles consistaient a l'valuation des besoins en
ressources humaines, A l'actualisation du recensement des effectifs au sein du departement. Ces
dispositions ont ete ex6cutees en 1998 tandis que la mise en ceuvre du plan de restructuration est en
cours.
42.    S'agissant du secteur routier, comme pour 1'ensemble des secteurs CDMT, les engagements
de liberation des ressources necessaires pour les services d'entretien ont ete respectes. En 1998, les
paiements effectifs au titre du fonds routier se sont eleves a 5,45 milliards de francs guineens, soit



23
l1'quivalent de 84,5 % des engagements, contre 82% en 1997. Pour la mise en place d'un fonds
routier autonome, qui reste la reforme centrale dans le secteur, des avancees notables sont deja
enregistrees. Appuyee par l'IDA l'etude prealable a ce fonds a recemment l'objet de discussions en
table ronde, avec la participation de tous les partenaires. Cette etude est en cours de validation et,
selon le calendrier fixe, elle doit deboucher sur la mise ceuvre effective du fonds routier avant la fin
de l'annee 1999. La mise en place de cette structure devrait permettre une meilleure prise en charge
des infrastructures routieres existantes.
43.   La mise en ceuvre du CAS III s'est deroulee dans un environnement marque par la persistance
de nombreuses contraintes exterieures. En effet, le marasme sur le marche de la bauxite et le manque
a gagner qui en decoule ont continue a peser sur lteconomie guineenne; les conflits au Liberia, en
Sierra Leone et, depuis 1998, en Guinee Bissau, ont engendre pour la Guinee dtimportantes d6penses,
dans le cadre des interventions sous-regionales mais egalement pour le maintien de la s6curite au sein
de la frontiere guineenne. A cela il faut ajouter le ralentissement de l'activite economique et les
depenses publiques considerables causees par les dernieres elections presidentielles en Guinee.
44.   Des performances remarquables ont ete obtenues dans la gestion des marches publics. En
effet, les marches pass6s par appel d'offres ouvert representaient en 1997 50% de la valeur totale des
marches, contre 21,8% pour le gre a gr6 et 28,1% pour la consultation restreinte. Grace aux reformes
mises en place, le recours au gre a gre est tombe a 7,8% au profil de l'appel d'offres, dont la part est
passee a 85,02% en 1998. La rigueur dans la gestion des marches publics demeurent constante depuis
le lancement des reformes.
D. INCIDENCES SOCIALES
45.   11 est encore t6t pour evaluer les effets sociaux du CAS III, exprimes en termes d'am6lioration
des conditions de vie des populations. La revue des mesures prevues par le programme et des
dispositions mises en c=uvre traduisent neanmoins les efforts fournis par le Gouvernement en faveur
des secteurs sociaux de base.
46.   Dans la Loi de Finances rectificative de 1998, 29,5% des credits de fonctionnements (hors
salaires) ont e  alloues aux secteurs prioritaires, essentiellement a 1P6ducation (16%), a la sante
(3,8%), a l'agriculture (1,4%) et au fonds routier (6,8%). Pour 1999, dans la Loi de Finances initiale,
les parts respectives de ces secteurs dans le total du budget de fonctionnement (hors salaires ) sont
18,9%, 4,3%, 1,5% et 9,2%. En depit d'un contexte particulierement tendu des finances publiques,
qui a force les autorites guineennes a une baisse de 1,5% des credits de fonctionnement (Titres III et
IV) entre 1998 et 1999, les secteurs prioritaires ont vu leurs dotations renforcees, en terme nominal et
en parts relatives par rapport au total du budget.
47.   Dans le budget d'investissement, une tendance similaire est observee en faveur des secteurs
sociaux. La part cumul6e des secteurs de la sant6 et des affaires sociales, de I'ducation est passee de
14,,8 % en 1996 a 16,8% du total du budget d'investissement en 1998. Les previsions de 1999 sont
encore plus favorable.
48.   En 1998, sur la base des engagements, le taux d'execution des depenses de fonctionnelTent
hors salaires a ete de 81 % pour le Ministere de l'Enseignement pre-universitaire, 93% pour
1Penseignement superieur et la recherche scientifique, 57% pour la sante et 64% pour 1'enseignement
technique et la formation professionnelle. L'execution assez limitee des depenses pr6vues,



24
notamment pour la Sante et l'enseignement technique et professionnelle tiendrait en partie A une
maitrise tardive par les administrations concernees des nouvelles proc6dures budgetaires.
49.   Quelques indicateurs d'impacts sont revelateurs de l'importance des efforts fournis en faveur
des secteurs sociaux. Pour l'education, on notera que le taux brut de scolarisation est passe de 46,5%
en 1996 A 51% en 1998. II reste entendu que la scolarisation des filles reste encore faible par rapport
A celle des garcons, s'etablissant a 36,7% en 1998 contre 31,5% en 1996. Mais, l'attention desorrnais
portee sur la scolarisation des filles permnet de reduire progressivement le desequilibre entre les deux
sexes. En effet, le rapport filles/garcons dans le primaire, qui etait de 31,5% en 1991, est passe A
34,4% en 1996 et 36,9% en 1998.
E. DURABILITE DES PERFORMANCES
50.   Le Gouvernement entend poursuivre son cuvre avec rigueur. L'enjeu des politiques pour les
prochaines annees consistera d'abord A la consolidation de l'approche CDMT comme instrument
operationnel contribuant A la rationalisation et A 1'efficacit6 des d6penses publiques. La mise en
cuvre de cette approche sera accompagnee d'une importante decentralisation budgetaire, favorisant
ainsi une plus grande implication des populations concernees dans la gestion du developpement A la
base.
51.   Conscientes de l'importance du d6fi pour les annees A venir et du caractere devastateur de
certaines pratiques sur les perspectives de developpement du pays, les autorites nationales entendent
ceuvrer avec rigueur pour la promotion de la transparence/bonne gouvernance et la lutte contre la
corruption. Ces actions, conjuguees avec le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles des services
publics, l'enjeu du projet 'Capacity Building' actuellement en preparation, egalement avec des
interventions d'envergure destinees aux zones rurales (le projet d'appui aux communautes
villageoises par exemple) devront contribuer A la dynamique economique et sociale du pays.
F. COLLABORATION DES BAILLEURS DE FONDS
52.   Au cours de la periode sous-revue, la bonne collaboration des differents bailleurs a favorise
l'execution normale des programmes negocies avec le Gouvernement guineen. S'agissant de la mise
en ceuvre du CAS III, les echeances definies dans la convention de pret et les conditionnalites qui
leurs sont associees ont e  largement respect6es, par l'IDA et par le Gouvernement guineen.
53.   Cette importante disposition de la part des partenaires exterieures a permis A la Guinee de
poursuivre sa politique de developpement, en mettant en cmuvre les reformes structurelles n6cessaires,
en assurant le financement de ses programmes sociaux ainsi que les infrastructures economiques de
base telles que le desenclavement du pays, la construction de la centrale hydro-electrique de Garafiri
(qui devra contribuer A lever les obstacles au developpement du secteur prive).
G. CONCLUSION
54.   L'ex6cution du CAS III s'est deroulee dans des bonnes conditions, en d6pit de la morosite qui
persiste sur le marche mondial de bauxite et du poids des conflits dans la sous-region sur J'equilibre
economique, social et budgetaire de la Guinee. L'incertitude qui 6tait liee aux demieres elections
presidentielles et leurs couts budgetaires n'ont egalement pas e  sans effets sur le rythme de l'activite
economique et sur l'equilibre des finances publiques. Ces facteurs ont certainement limite les



25
performances du programme, traduisant ainsi la difficulte de la gestion du developpement dans des
faibles economies comme celle de la Guinee.
55.    Par ailleurs, une difficulte a souligner est celle liee au changement en profondeur, et en si peu
de temps, qu'implique la mise en place d'un nouveau systeme de gestion des depenses publiques. II a
fallu du temps pour permettre aux services concern6s de digerer l'ensemble des mesures
courageusement entreprises par les autorites nationales.
56.    La conduite a terme de ces reformes tient de l'engagement du Gouvernement guin6en et de la
bonne collaboration des ses partenaires exterieurs, mais egalement de la demarche empruntee pour la
conception et la mise en =uvre du programme. Cette demarche a consiste en la forte implication des
services vises par les reformes et ce, durant tour le processus. C'est la une des lecons importantes a
tirer du CAS III.
57.    Les fruits de ces efforts sont d'ordre multiple. Sur le plan de la construction de la Guinee, les
progres sont notables (les performances sont dejA evoquees) et la poursuite de la rigueur dans la
gestion publique devra amplifier leurs impacts positifs sur les conditions de vie des populations. Au
plan des relations entre la Guinee et ses partenaires d'aide au developpement, dont l'Agence
Internationale pour le Developpement, le CAS III a servi de cadre de rapprochement et d'echanges
fructueuses pour les differentes parties.
58.    Pour les annees A venir, I'engagement de la Guinee en faveur du d6veloppement et de la lutte
contre la pauvrete doit se traduire par la consolidation des acquis des annees precedentes. Le soutien
de l'IDA et des autres bailleurs de fonds lui sera necessaire A cet effet. Dans cette perspective, le
Gouvernement soumettra A ses partenaires le programme d'actions qu'il entend mettre en ctuvre,
tenant compte de l'experience du passe (dans la conception et la mise en ouvre des programmes ainsi
que dans la collaboration avec les bailleurs de fonds) et des contraintes actuelles.



