Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3021 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 17, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3021 GUI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 16, 1997 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve the management of the Borrower’s public expenditures and to increase the 
collection of its fiscal revenues (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
(B)
by an agreement (the AfDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the African Development Bank (AfDB), AfDB has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about $13,000,000 to 
assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in the AfDB Loan 
Agreement; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
Now therefore the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made."; 
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: "Except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made 
in the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: "The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: "(c)  Not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Letter of Development Policy” or “LDP” means the letter referred to in 
Recital (A) of this Agreement; 
(b)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter from the Association 
dated August 28, 1995, and confirmed by the Borrower on September 7, 1995.
(d)
“MAEF” means the Ministère de l’Agriculture, des Eaux et Forêts of the 
Borrower;
(e)
“Direction du Trésor” means the Directorate of Treasury within the 
Ministry of the Borrower responsible for finance.
(f)
“Projet de loi de règlement global” means a draft law of the Borrower 
relating to the execution of its budgets for all fiscal years preceding its FY 1998.
(g)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower which runs 
from January 1 through December 31 of each calendar year; and
(h)
“FG” means the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  3
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 50,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: 
(i)
deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment; or 
(ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such 
request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 32,700,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of Program; 
(ii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been taken; and 
(iii)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice 
to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and 
taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. Promptly after the effective date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. Section 2.08. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 
commencing May 15, 2008 and ending November 15, 2037.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on November 15, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
Page  5
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
 (a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03. The Borrower has, by September 30, 1998: (a) adopted a set of 
performance benchmarks to measure the quality of public services delivered to the 
public; and (b) established an appropriate monitoring system satisfactory to the 
Association to obtain feedback from the public on the quality of services delivered to 
them. ARTICLE IV Remedies of the Association Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 
(h) of the General Conditions, the following additional event is specified , namely, 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
B.P. 579
Conakry, Republic of Guinea
Cable address: 
Telex:
22399 MIFIGE
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  6
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Mohammed Aly Thiam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
Expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower. 
2.
Expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan.
3.
Expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112             -
Alcoholic beverages
121             -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122             -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
Page  7
525             -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718           718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728.43           -
Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971              -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
Expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption. 
5.
Expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association). 
6.
Expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. 
7.
Expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has:
(a)
submitted to the Association evidence satisfactory to it that: (i) during 
the first semester of FY1998, the Borrower has disbursed the following amounts: (i) FG 
3,800,000,000 for the education sector; (ii) FG 2,000,000,000 for the public health 
sector; (iii) FG 2,000,000,000 for road maintenance; and (iv) FG 635,000,000 for the 
rural development sector.
(b)
(i)
recruited at least 1,600 additional primary school teachers 
over and above the number of established teachers’ 
Page  8
positions in effect as of June 30, 1998; and 
(ii)
spent at least FG 5,000 per student at the primary school 
level and at least FG 8,000 per student at the secondary 
school 
level in respect of pedagogical materials.
2.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association:
(a)
a projet de loi de règlement global of such scope and details agreed upon 
with the Association on the execution of the Borrower’s budget as specified in 
paragraph 14 of LDP; and
(b)
a reorganization plan for the Direction du Trésor, acceptable to the 
Association, based on the principles specified in paragraph 14 of LDP.
3.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a report of such scope and details 
agreed upon with the Association on the execution of its budget for FY1998, including 
a report describing the progress achieved in the implementation of: 
(a)
the revised budgetary procedures enacted by Arrêté Ministériel No. 
A/97/3712 dated July 16, 1997; and 
(b)
the procurement procedures enacted by Decree No. D/97/258/PRG/SGG, dated 
November 3, 1997; 
4.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association a reorganization plan for MAEF 
acceptable to the Association. 
5.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association an action plan, including a 
timetable acceptable to the Association for the purposes of establishing a financially 
autonomous Road Agency with functions and an operational framework satisfactory to the 
Association, to ensure a timely availability of funding required to settle all 
recurrent expenditures incurred for road routine maintenance activities. 
