Document of
the International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P 7198 GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.8 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
NOVEMBER 18, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 1997)
Currency Unit                 =       Guinean Franc
US$1                          =       GNF 1130
GNF                           =       US$0.000885
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCRG        Banque Centrale de la Republique de Guinee (Central Bank)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CASFI       Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
DAFF        Division des affaires administratives etfinancieres (Administrative and
Financial Affairs Division)
DNB         Direction nationale du budget (Budget Department, MEF)
DNIP        Direction nationale des Investissements publics (Public Investment
Departnent, MEF)
ESAF         Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (of the IRF)
FINEX        Investment budget financed entirely by donors
GDP          Gross domestic product
GOG         Government of Guinea
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MAEF        Ministere de l 'agriculture, des eaux etforets (Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock, and Forestry)
MTEF        Medium-term expenditure framework
MEF          Ministry of the Economy and Finances
NGOs        Non-governmental organizations
O&M          Operation and maintenance expenditures
PESAC       Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit
PER          Public expenditure review
PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development (Grant)
PIP          Public investment program
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SGS         Societe Suisse de Surveillance (Swiss Customs Inspection Agency)
UNDP         United National Development Program
WTO          World Trade Organization
Vice President        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director      Mamadou Dia
Technical Managers    Peter Harrold (until 10/01/97)
Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader      Brian Ngo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit Summary ...................................................i
1. Introduction ..................................................1
2. Background and Rationale ..................................................1
A. Overview ...................................................1
B. Challenges for Public Sector Reform ..................................................3
C. Experience Under Previous Adjustment Operations ........................................... 6
3. World Bank Group Assistance Strategy ........7...... 7
A. The Proposed Project and the CAS ......................................7
B. Consultations and Stakeholder Involvement ......................................8
C. Collaboration with the IMF ......................................8
4. Macroeconomic Management .....................................8
A. Recent Turnaround in Macroeconomic Situation ....................                              ................8
B. Objectives and Policies ...................................9
1. Fiscal Policies ....................................9
2. Monetary and Financial Policies ...................................                                 10
3. External Sector Policies ................................... 10
4. External Financing Requirements .10
5. Sectoral Policies and Strategies .................................................                                       11
A. Education ..................................................11
B. Health and Nutrition ................................................. 12
C. Rural Development .................................................                                            12
D. Road Maintenance .................................................                                             13
6.'The Proposed Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit ................                                 .............. 14
A. Objectives and Timing .................................................                                        14
B. Credit Description and Components .................................................                            14
1. Restructuring of Public Expenditures .................................................  15
2. Improving Budget Implementation and Monitoring ............................... 17
C. Conditions of Tranche Release .................................................                                19
D. Implementation and Supervision .................................................                               21
1. Coordination by the Government ..........................................                   ....... 21
2. Supervision Focus and Timing - Role of Government ............................ 22
3. Performance Indicators and Benchmarks ............................................... 23
E. Credit Administration ................................................. 25
1. Procurement and Disbursement .................................................                      25
2. Financing Plan ................................................. 25
F. Benefits and Risks .................................................                                           25
1. Benefits .................................................                                          25
2. Risks ................................................. 26
7. Recommendation .................................................. 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLES
2.1. Sectoral Expenditure Shares of Domestic Resources, 1994-97 ........................................ 5
2.2. Previous Adjustment Operations ........................................................  6
4.1. Extemal Financing Requirements, 1997-99 ........................................................   11
6.1  Allocations of Non-Wage Recurrent Expenditures, 1997-98 .......................................... 17
6.2  Actual Disbursement of Non-Wage Recurrent Expenditures, 1994-Aug. 1997 ............. 20
6.3  Supervision Plan ........................................................           23
6.4  Selected Performance Indicators ........................................................  24
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment I   Previous Adjustment Operations .28
Attachment II    Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators .31
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators .34
Table 3: Guinea at a Glance .35
Table 4: Guinea Social Indicators .37
Attachment m      Status of Bank Group Operations
Table 1: IBRDJ1DA Lending Program FY 1995-2001 .38
Table 2: IFC and MIGA Programs FY 1995-98 .39
Table 3: IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio .40
Table 4: Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio . 41
Attachment IV  Timetable of Key Processing Events .42
Attachment V  Letter of Development Policy .43
Attachment VI Matrix of Policy Actions .53
Attachment VII Map of Guinea .60



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PEMAC)
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower          Republic of Guinea
Project ID         GN-PE-49690
Amount             SDR 50.8 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms              Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Co-financing      African Development Bank for US$13 million. Other co-financing is under
consideration
Description        The proposed project has two main components: (i) restructuring of public
expenditures toward four priority areas (education, health, rural
development, and road maintenance) with the implementation in 1998, of a
medium-term expenditure framework; and (ii) strengthening budgetary
execution and control through the adoption of a computer-based public
sector financial information system, more rigorous implementation of the
regulatory framework especially for financial control and procurement, and
the standardization and simplification of budgetary processes.
Benefits           The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to help
Guinea ensure financial sustainability and improve public service
effectiveness in sectors which benefit the majority of the poor (education,
health, rural development, and road maintenance). In the broader context
of the CAS, another important objective of the credit is to help Guinea
overhaul the whole management of its budget as a serious first step
towards improving governance. Measures covered under PEMAC are
pivotal to the enhancement of Guinea's growth prospects through more
effective human resource development, improved physical infrastructure,
and a more effective government contribution to the development of the
agricultural sector. It will also provide critical balance of payments and
budgetary support. The reforms supported by the operation will help
maintain macroeconomic stability and fiscal discipline which are necessary
to create a conducive environment for private sector-led economic growth
and poverty reduction. Enhanced governance through a more transparent
management of the public sector is also expected to increase investors'
confidence in the economy.



ii
Risks              The proposed operation faces risk in three areas: (i) implementation risk;
(ii) significant shortfalls in revenue mobilization which may disrupt the
expenditure program and, hence, the implementation of the new
expenditure management system; and (iii) political resistance and vested
interests.  These risks have been carefuuly addressed during project
preparation. To minimize implementation delays, PEMAC was designed
with a focus on prior actions and a short implementation period. Close
coordination with the IWF, both in the design and timing of the proposed
reform program, helps address the second type of risk. Third, to reduce
resistance from special interest groups and the pressure from wage demand
of civil servants, particularly in view of the upcoming presidential elections
which are scheduled for late 1998, the operation was designed with focus
on ownership by the government team, more particularly at the working-
staff level. Lastly, to minimize the social impact related to measures aimed
at downsizing the Ministry of Agriculture, appropriate safety nets and other
mitigating measures (for instance, reassignment of excess staff to priority
sectors in need) will be funded by the Government using counterpart funds
of the proposed PEMAC.
Staff Appraisal
Report             There is no separate staff appraisal report.
Estimated
Disbursements      The Credit will be disbursed in two tranches over a period of about 12
months.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA
FOR A PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(PEMAC)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed International
Development Association (IDA) Credit of SDR 50.8 million (US$70 million equivalent). The
Credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and a 10-year grace period. Co-
financing has been confirmed by the African Development Bank. The Government of Japan has
expressed its interest in supporting the program through a quick-disbursing grant.
1.2   PEMAC is designed to support an important phase in Guinea's economic reform program
with a far-ranging overhaul of public expenditure planning and management aimed at enhancing
public sector efficiency and changing resource allocations in line with policy priorities identified
by the Government after extensive consultations and participation by beneficiaries at the
grassroots. Together, these measures are expected to have a significant impact on the volume and
quality of public services in four key areas (education, health, road maintenance, and rural
development), helping to improve the conditions of the country's poor and to strengthen the
conditions for diversified long-term growth. The proposed operation also comes at a critical
juncture when prospects for results from reforms are enhanced by the advent in July 1996 of a
new government made up largely of technocrats with a stronger commitment to policy reforms
and by the success of getting the macroeconomic framework back on track under the IMF's
ESAF program. Due to the severe deterioration in the country's financial position in the 1995-96
period when Guinea was off-track with the IMF program, needs for external assistance are
substantial and urgent. Proceeds from PEMAC would go towards filling external financing gaps
which would remain after Paris Club rescheduling and new disbursements from aid donors as well
as meeting the Government's budgetary needs for the key sectors listed above.
2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
A.  OVERVIEW
2.1   Since 1985, Guinea has made significant headway in its transition to a market-oriented
economy involving notably price liberalization, streamlining of the civil service, privatizing of a
large number of public enterprises, and reforms of the exchange rate system. But owing to a
severe terms-of-trade deterioration during 1990-94 when prices of bauxite declined by 33 percent,
which reduced fiscal revenue from the mining sector by 7.5 percentage points of GDP, and
frequent expenditure overruns, the country has experienced repeated fiscal crises. To deal with



2
the considerably worsened financial position, the new Government, which took office in July
1996, initiated bold remedial actions to combat fraud (particularly in customs) reduce fiscal
exemptions, increase fiscal revenue with the introduction of the value-added tax, and control
Government expenditures. In support of the new Government's commitment, the IMF approved
a three-year enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF) for the period October 1996-
September 1999 which focuses, during the first year, on restoring financial discipline in the public
sector.
2.2   The program had a difficult start. The combination of weak administrative capacity and
the strength of vested interests opposed to the Government's efforts to mobilize revenue led to
disappointing performance in the first quarter of the program (October-December 1996) raising
concerns that the current ESAF program, like its predecessor, would fail shortly following its
inception. But in recent months the authorities have shown considerable determination in
containing start-up problems and had met IMF's performance criteria through a combination of
revenue mobilization measures and cutbacks in current and capital expenditures. While it is
premature to characterize Guinea's macroeconomic situation as stable, a crucial first step was
achieved by end-June, creating the conditions for the IMF to proceed with the second annual
arrangement of the three-year program.
2.3   In concert with its efforts to re-establish the basis for sound macroeconomic management,
the new Government has also launched a far-reaching process to re-orient public spending to pro-
poor areas in line with its long-term development vision. PEMAC, which will support this
process, will be disbursed in two tranches: (1) an initial tranche (SDR 32.7 million or US$45
million equivalent) which supports a broad range of far-reaching policy actions which the
Government has either initiated or already accomplished during the past months; and (2) a smaller
tranche (SDR 18.1 million or US$25 million equivalent) which will be linked to specific actions
connected with budget implementation and expenditure management in the first half of the 1998
fiscal year (January-June 1998). Beyond that date, the elaboration and implementation of the
medium-term policy agenda in public expenditure management will be monitored in conjunction
with a capacity building project--that is under preparation--which will provide the resources and
technical assistance required to implement the far-reaching policy agenda and with investment
projects in agriculture, health, and education.
2.4   At issue, however, remains the question whether the objectives of the project as outlined
above may better be met by other Bank lending instruments such as investment projects and
technical assistance support.  Four reasons justify the recourse to a structural adjustment
operation. First and foremost, in the context of today's Guinea, the focus of the project, which is
an overhaul of public expenditure management, is as much a problem of accountability,
enforcement, and commitment as one of technical capacity. Self-standing TA projects have not
proven effective in the past in addressing the soft governance/institutional environment issues.
Second, prospects for progress on policy reforms are also significantly better as a result of the
current political set-up and improving performance in the implementation of the IMF program.
Third, the proposed project with its focus on expenditure management neatly complements the
IMF's program which focuses on revenue mobilization and financial discipline, both programs
being undertaken under more or less the same time frame. Lastly, a structural adjustment



3
operation constitutes the most pertinent instrument for inducing the Ministry of finance to
undertake key reforms concerning budget implementation and control.
B.  CHALLENGES FOR PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
2.5   The primary economic challenges facing Guinea at this juncture are to establish the
foundations for a sustainable fiscal adjustment through renewed effort toward revenue
mobilization and to improve the impact of public service through a major overhaul of the public
expenditure management system. As discussed earlier, budgetary performance has improved in
recent months. But in response to revenue shortfalls that occurred early on in the program, the
authorities had to sharply reduce Government outlays in all expenditure categories, suspend
normal expenditure procedures, and replace them by a strict control of cash expenditure. While
necessary, these measures cannot be continued without causing undue harm to the performance of
the public sector and to the economy. More recently, determined revenue mobilization efforts
aimed at reducing tax evasion and avoidance have eased the public finances position and created
the conditions to return to normal expenditure control procedures. The purpose of PEMAC is
also to provide resources to support a policy package that replaces ad-hoc expenditure cuts by a
more coherent system of expenditure management.  The series of measures to improve
expenditure allocation, control, and monitoring in the context of PEMAC will help improve the
framework for a lasting fiscal adjustment.
2.6   The current process of budget preparation in Guinea has several weaknesses which were
identified in the Public Expenditure Review (PER) issued in January 1996.  The main
weaknesses, which will be addressed under the proposed project, include the following:
.  the recurrent budget is prepared on an incremental basis by adding a certain
percentage to the previous year's level. Budget preparation thus does not involve
reviewing whether the particular activities are in line with Government priorities. The
country also lacks the institutional framework required for making intersectoral
choices which are consistent with long-term sectoral strategies and are compatible
with a sustainable macroeconomic framework;
*  the recurrent and development budgets are prepared  separately with little
coordination. As a result, projects are implemented without a careful assessment of
their recurrent cost implications;
*  while the development budget is elaborated on a three-year time frame, the recurrent
budget has no forward planning; and
*  budget guidelines are usually provided late to line ministries so that they have little
time to prepare meaningful sectoral proposals. Besides, the absence of a dependable
macroeconomic framework, which is often subordinated to cash flow management
considerations with frequent and arbitrary adjustment, reduces the usefulness of the
budget preparation exercise.



4
2.7   Budget implementation is also inadequate in several respects, the most important ones
being:
*  the cumbersome (involving a total of some 13 steps) and non transparent processing of
spending requests, which makes it liable to lengthy delays and corruptive practices;
*  the unreliability of budgetary disbursements both in terms of timing and quantity which
severely reduce performance and accountability by line ministries. Combined with the
strict line item control, uncertainty about disbursements has led to implementation
ratios (actual spending as a share of budgeted amount) of less than 50 percent for key
sectors such as health and education;
* the complete absence of ex-post reconciliation of actual outturns with budget
estimates by line ministries and of audited Government accounts, making it impossible
to use the results of past budgets for future expenditure plans;
*  the failure by the Government to meet counterpart funding commitments on donor-
assisted projects which adversely affects project implementation;
*  the haphazard application of the Government's tendering procedures, resulting in
inordinate delays in finalizing bidding documents and contracts for externally financed
projects and in the very low share of public expenditure which proceeded through
proper tender; and
*  the weak monitoring of expenditures due to the lack of authority of two main control
agencies, the General Auditor Office and the Financial Control Division in promoting
budgetary discipline and transparency.
2.8   The PER also revealed serious problems with budgetary allocations. Updated information
obtained from the Government on actual disbursements showed that uneven expenditure
adjustment has crowded out non-wage operation and maintenance expenditures. With the sharply
lower share of O&M in total recurrent expenditures (see Table 2.1), the Government's ability to
deliver services to the population is seriously impaired and returns on public investments are
severely reduced.  Second, capital expenditures, which have born the brunt of the fiscal
adjustment, have falien to levels (about 10 percent of total disbursed resources) which risk
undermining the basis for continued growth. Thus, in spite of its rich endowment of agricultural
and mineral resources, Guinea continues to rank among the lowest countries using the United
Nations Report on Human Development's index. Cognizant of these major weaknesses, the
Government, based on its vision-building exercise and after extensive consultations with
beneficiaries at the grassroots, decided to allocate more resources to the social sectors (education
and health) and road maintenance and to increase the effectiveness of its intervention in the
agricultural sector.



5
Table 2.1: Sectoral Expenditure Shares of Domestic Resources, 1994-97
(in percent)
i penditure Category     1994   1995   1996  1997        1994   1995   1996   1997
Total Expenditure (All Sectors)   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Recurrent
Salaries                                               53.6   54.5   65.1   62.9
Others                                                 35.2   30.0   25.1   26.8
Investment                                            . .  11.2   15.5    9.8   10.3
Total Expenditure (Education)  21.3   21.9   27.0   24.2      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Recurrent
Salaries                                              74.0   72.3   81.0  77.3
Others                                                 23.5   23.8   16.1   10.4
Investment                                             .   2.5    3.9    2.9   12.4
Total Expenditure (Health)      6.2    6.2    6.3    6.7      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Recurrent
Salaries                                               64.4   57.9   76.6  68.9
Others                                                 11.8   13.0   12.1  18.1
Investment                                            ::  23.8   29.1   11.3   13.0
Total Expenditure (Agriculture)  7.6    8.5    9.0    9.0     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Recurrent
Salaries                                               73.3   63.8   88.5   84.6
Others                                                  1.2    1.5    1.2   1.1
Investment                                             .  25.5   34.7   10.3   14.3
Total Expenditure (Roads)       4.5    3.7    3.3    3.3  .  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Recurrent
Salaries                                               17.5    6.2   13.3   12.6
Others                                                 17.8   40.1   43.7  33.4
Investment                                              -  64.7   53.7   43.0  54.0
Total Expenditure (4 Priority  39.6   40.3   45.6   43.2      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Sectors)
Recurrent
Salaries                                               65.9   62.2   77.0  77.5
Others                                                 16.7   18.9   14.6   12.1
Investment                                           _     17.4   18.9    8.4   10.4
*January to June 1997
Source: Government statistics
2.9    An analysis of past trends showed that the four sectors mentioned above accounted for a
rising share of the Government's budget and almost half of total disbursements. Reflecting the
importance given to education and rapid progress in school attendance at the primary level,
spending on education accounted for approximately a quarter of total expenditures from domestic
resources. While showing some improvement, the health sector still accounted for only 6.7
percent of total spending, or significantly less than the 10 percent recommended by the World
Health Organization.   A  more detailed breakdown of expenditures, however, revealed a
worrisome trend in which the wage bill accounted for over three quarters of all spending,
seriously undermining the Government's ability to deliver quality services.  This imbalance is
most pronounced in the Agriculture Ministry, where staff salaries accounted for over 98 percent



6
of all recurrent expenditures since 1996 with the addition of some 1,200 staff to the Ministry.
While the imbalance is less acute in education, salaries accounted for a rapidly rising share of total
recurrent expenditures (from 74 percent in 1994 to 81 percent in 1996). These results justify the
focus on the disbursement of non-wage recurrent expenditures adopted in the proposed operation.
At the same time, the Government will proceed with staff audits which will provide the basis for
more specific actions to correct the imnbalances between wages and non-wage expenditures,
starting with the Agriculture Ministry.
C.   EXPERIENCE UNDER PREVIOUS ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
2.10  Since 1986, Guinea has undertaken three adjustment operations with assistance from the
Bank. The first operation (SAC I) took effect shortly after the death of President Sekou Toure
who, over his twenty six-year rule, moved Guinea to a centrally planned economy. The economy
became increasingly dominated by a pervasive network of state enterprises and as a result of this
policy, Guinea is today one of the most "informalized" economies of Sub-Saharan Africa. SAC I
supported the transition of Guinea towards a market economy by helping correct the most
important economic distortions. The second operation (SAC II), which was approved in 1988,
was designed to complete the reforms towards a market economy. The Government's efforts in
strengthening the regulatory, supervisory, and judicial environment for financial institutions were
assisted by a financial sector adjustment project (CASFI) which was approved in 1994.
Table 2.2: Previous Adjustment Operations
Operation                 Approval Date     IDA Credit
(SDR Million)
SAC I                                        FY86             22.9
SAC II                                      FY88              47.0
Financial Sector Adjustment (CASFI)          FY95              16.3
2.11  Following significant and courageous steps at the beginning of the reform process,
implementation of both structural adjustment operations (SAC I and SAC II) slowed significantly
in later years. This reflects several factors, some of which were due to the Government's
weakened commitment, but also to deficiencies in technical capacity and to weaknesses in the
institutional framework.   Moreover, frequent slippages in financial discipline delayed
implementation. Restricted project outcomes and implementation problems can also be traced to
the design and ambitious objectives of the operations and to insufficient attention to local
ownership of the reform process. Quoting from the Project Completion Report of SAC II, "by
narrowing the focus of the operation on a set of key interrelated issues, the risk of dispersion of
scarce capacity would have been lowered and the potential for better implementation improved"
(p. 14). The same report concluded also that "the development of the reform program should be
based on solid economic and sector work to, inter alia, help define tranche release conditions in
terms of outcomes rather than in terms of promulgation of legal measures" (p. 14). To a lesser
extent, CASFI suffers from similar weaknesses in its design.



7
2.12 Based on the valuable lessons of past structural adjustment operations, the design of
PEMAC carefully takes into account the following considerations: (i) fully involving the
Government in the preparation process; (ii) focusing the reform program on measures aimed at
revamping the programming and management of public expenditures and strengthening the public
financial information system, relying on detailed analyses and recommendations provided by the
PER; (iii) designing the project around a limited set of outcome indicators; and (iv) closely
coordinating the project's content with the ESAF which focuses on issues of revenue
mobilization.
3. WORLD BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
3.1   The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's Assistance Strategy for Guinea
which has as main thrusts to improve governance and institutional capacity, to enhance service
delivery for poverty reduction, and to promote broad base and equitable growth with a focus on
the rural sector. This strategy is designed to put Guinea back on track toward financial viability
and sustainable economic growth by redressing imbalances in the Government's finances, thus
making it possible to redirect the country's resources to the highest priorities, and by furthering
structural reforms that will progressively eliminate the obstacles currently hampering the
development of the private sector. The ensuing growth should create more jobs and better living
conditions, thereby helping to reduce poverty, which is the overarching objective of the country's
development strategy.
A.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND THE CAS
3.2   The project is consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to be
presented together with this project. The long-term development strategy elaborated by the
Government and supported by the CAS is the result of a strategic planning process which
followed a Government retreat late last year and was conducted with the beneficiaries at the
grassroots. This process was intended to forge a broad consensus on the national vision and
medium-term strategy for poverty reduction. The focus was on the quest for improved public
service, more effective government, and faster economic growth in the context of a strong
commitment toward results. This approach, which is based on the needs of the population,
promises to be an effective instrument in Guinea's drive to reduce poverty and promote
sustainable growth. By focusing on the management of public expenditures in four key sectors
identified as priority sectors by the Government and on their impact, the PEMAC best symbolizes
the Bank's assistance in helping the Government achieve its own development goals. More
importantly, the implementation of the new approach toward public expenditure management in
the four priority areas, namely education, health, road maintenance, and rural development, are
expected to have the greatest impact on poverty alleviation.
3.3   The proposed operation will also help increase Guinea's creditworthiness and reduce its
risks by improving one of the principal components of ranking criteria used by the Bank, namely
public finance measured by the volume, composition, and management of public expenditures.
Together with a significant improvement in macroeconomic stability and portfolio management,



8
the expected positive impact brought about by PEMAC will provide the foundations for future
reforms. The proposed PEMAC constitutes the main instrument to help deal with the issue of
governance, one of the CAS' three main thrusts. Also, because of its focus on the key sectors of
education, health, rural development, and road maintenance, PEMAC also has a direct
contribution on the quality of public service delivery and on creating the conditions for more
broad-based growth in the rural sector.
B.  CONSULTATIONS AND STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT
3.4   As a prelude to the preparation of the CAS, the Government requested the World Bank's
assistance in helping to initiate consultations with the civil society, key stakeholders, and the local
community to translate Vision 2010 into specific benchmarks and indicators for measuring
progress toward national development goals. The assistance provided by the Bank involved
essentially three tasks: (i) working with key beneficiaries and stakeholders, through listening visits
and workshops, to identify specific development objectives within the context of Vision 2010 that
have a significant impact on poverty reduction and warrant high priority; (ii) helping to build
consensus around a national strategic vision and to formulate, with local community involvement,
action plans for achieving mutually agreed poverty reduction; and (iii) working with key
stakeholders to define one or more measurable benchmarks for each of the priority objectives. In
addition to being a departure from previous top-down, centralized planning processes, this new
approach offers the scope for reorienting and redefining the role of the state and creating public
pressure points and channels of expression for greater accountability and efficiency in public
sector management and service delivery.
C.   COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
3.5   The reform program covered by the proposed Credit is coordinated closely with the IMF's
ESAF program, with both programs aiming to promote discipline in the public financial sector.
Measures designed to improve the management of public expenditures through greater
transparency and accountability and through the introduction of a medium-term expenditure
framework neatly complement the IME's support for revenue mobilization. Thus, expenditure
targets to be adopted beginning with budget year 1998 are kept consistent with the fiscal targets
under IMF-supported programs. IMF's structural policy benchmarks are developed in close
consultation with the Bank and stress the complementarity of programs being implemented by the
two institutions.
4. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
A.  RECENT TURNAROUND IN MACROECONOMIC SITUATION
4.1   After a disappointing performance in the last quarter of 1996, the fiscal situation has
improved significantly during the first half of 1997 thanks to expenditure curtailment as non-
mining revenue experienced an important shortfall during the earlier part of the LMF program.
This situation has been mostly corrected in recent months as the authorities achieved more



9
success in their renewed efforts toward revenue mobilization. Fiscal revenue, which reached 10.4
percent of GDP in 1996, is expected to rise to 11.4 percent of GDP in 1997. As a result, the
fiscal deficit including grants was estimated at 2.9 percent of GDP, yielding a primary surplus'
equivalent to 2.6 percent of GDP. On the monetary side, restraints in monetary policy have also
succeeded in holding inflation to 5 percent and the external current account deficit at a
manageable level (close to 4 percent if official transfers are included). Real GDP growth is
estimated to reach 4.8 percent in 1997, compared with 4.5 percent in 1996. Guinea has also
reached agreement with Paris Club bilateral creditors on a three-year flow rescheduling on Naples
terms with debt reduction of 50 percent in net present value terms and has agreed on a debt buy-
back operation which would help eliminate most of the country's external commercial debt.
B.    OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
4.2   The fundamental macroeconomic objectives for the next three years are to: (i) achieve a
minimum rate of real GDP growth of 5 percent; (ii) limit inflation to 4 percent annually; and (iii)
reduce the external account deficit to 3.8 percent of GDP to allow for the reconstitution of gross
official reserves to 3 1/2 months of imports by the year 2000. The Government is also aiming to
increase public savings by an equivalent of 3 percentage points of GDP, raising the overall
domestic savings rate to 13 percent by 2000 to permit the development of infrastructures and the
expansion of productive investment necessary for sustainable growth.
1.    Fiscal Policies
4.3   Fiscal management in Guinea was confronted with the double challenge of declining
Government revenue arising from the price decline in the country's two main exports, bauxite and
alumina, and periodic slippages in financial discipline. Improvement in revenue mobilization will
come from the stricter implementation of measures already in place consisting of: (i) removing a
major tax exemption by submitting all mining companies and their sub-contractors to the value-
added tax; (ii) extending the intervention of the customs inspection agency (SGS) to all imports
of mining companies and their sub-contractors; (iii) regular publication in the media of the list of
the twenty most important tax offenders, and their exclusion from participation in Government
procurement contracts; and (iv) reducing the tax threshold for enterprises. In addition, the
collection capacity of the tax department will be reinforced through powers to seize property and
by creating a tax appeal conmmission. For the next two years, the Government expects to raise
revenue by about one percentage point of GDP each year to reach 13.5 percent by end-1999.
Measures aiming at improving expenditure management and which form the core of the proposed
operation are discussed in greater detail below.
1  The primary balance is defined as budgetary revenue minus non-interest expenditures, excluding foreign-
financed investment expenditures. A floor level of the primary surplus constitutes a key quantitative
performance benchmark on the fiscal side in the ESAF program.



10
2.    Monetary and Financial Policies
4.4   Guinea's prudent monetary management has brought about a substantial reduction in
inflation, real positive interest rates, and an exchange rate which is determined by the market.
Monetary policy will remain tight to keep inflation low and protect external reserves. With the
recent conversion of its permanent advances to the Government into treasury bills, the Central
Bank now possesses a portfolio of short-term papers which will enable it to rely largely on open
market-type operations for monetary management. But despite reforms introduced since 1994
under the CASFI, the banking sector is still narrowly based and fragile. To stem the rapid
deterioration in the financial health of the banking system, the Central Bank, BCRG, has taken
several protective measures while preparing for adoption a restructuring plan which includes
closing one or several of the ailing banks. Key measures involve: (i) the audit of three illiquid
banks by a reputable public accounting firm; (ii) a ban on new lending by these banks; and (iii)
strengthening the enforcement of financial contracts and the recovery of non-performing loans.
3.    External Sector Policies
4.5   The Government has recently taken measures to remove the remaining distortions that
exist in the functioning of the interbank market for foreign exchange, with the view of filly
liberalizing payments and transfers for current transactions. Banks are now encouraged to
actively seek foreign exchange from the private sector at more flexible rates rather than relying
principally on the Central Bank as a source of foreign exchange as was the case in the recent past.
Published daily exchange rates will take into account all these various transactions leading to
increased flexibility in the exchange rate. On trade policies, the Government is working on
harmonizing its policies with the WTO. Based on the agreement reached with the Paris Club
creditors in February 1997, the Government is finalizing agreements with individual creditors
while seeking comparable agreements with non-Paris Club bilateral creditors. Debt service
obligations are current at present and outstanding non-reschedulable arrears have been eliminated.
Preparation for a debt buy-back operation with World Bank assistance is well advanced and is
expected to be finalized before the end of 1997.
4.    External Financing Requirements
4.6   Steadfast progress in structural reforms covered by the proposed Credit leading to a more
focused expenditure management system and more efficient budget implementation, will raise
both the efficiency of public service and the credibility of Government's actions, thus indirectly
enhancing the country's long-term growth prospects. However, continued donor support in the
form of external concessional resources is needed in the short and medium term to support the
adjustment agenda. This support is needed both for balance-of-payments and budgetary reasons.
From a balance of payments perspective, expected aid flows will be sufficient to close Guinea's
external financing gap in 1997. As shown in Table 4.1, they comprise of US$181.6 million in
support from official sources (project lending and non-project support under the CASFI),
US$96.8 million in balance of payment support including US$45 million under the initial tranche
of the proposed operation and anticipated cofinancing from the African Development Bank and
US$34.4 million under the IMF's ESAF. For 1998-99, external financing requirements to be met
by balance of payments support are estimated at US$164.6 million of which approximately



11
US$78.8 million have been identified. The remaining gap could be filled in part from resources
under the proposed operation and cofinancing. For the period covered by the proposed project
(1997-98), the Credit will cover 4.4 percent of Guinea's projected financing requirements. In
addition to covering part of the balance of payments gap, the proposed Credit is also expected to
finance budgetary needs for 1997-98 period. Under the proposed PEMAC, the Government is
taking steps to rationalize expenditures; some of these measures are likely to raise expenditures in
the short term.
Table 4.1: External Financing Requirements, 1997-99
(in millions of US$)
1997        1998       1999
Financing requirements                   1090.6       445.1      452.5
Current account deficit                 290.5       315.1       326.0
Debt repayment                           95.4         96.2       88.9
Reserves build-up                        41.6         33.8       37.6
Changes in external arrears             663.1         0.0         0.0
Resources                                 993.8       353.7      379.3
Official transfers                      123.5        123.9      150.5
Public capital                          181.6        187.9      205.2
Private capital (inct. foreign inv.)     57.3         41.9       23.6
Debt rescheduling                       631.4         0.0         0.0
Residual ftnancing requirements            96.8        91.4       73.2
ESAF                                    34.4        34.4       34.4
Others (incl. debt buy-back)            15.4        10.0        0.0
Financing to be identified                 47.0        47.0       38.8
PEMAC                                   45.0        25.0        0.0
5. SECTORAL POLICIES AND STRATEGIES
5.1    As part of the strategic planning exercise, the Government has identified four sectors as
priorities for service delivery and resource allocation to maximize development impact and
poverty reduction. They are education, health and nutrition, rural development, and road
maintenance.
A.  EDUCATION
5.2    Following progress made in restoring adequate allocations of budgetary resources to
education and in redressing the imbalances in the distribution of funding between primary,



12
secondary, and tertiary education (although considerable problems remain in respecting funding
allocations), the Government will continue to shift resources toward primary education with a
view to: (i) increasing the gross primary enrollment rate from the present 51 percent (up from 29
percent at the start of the 1990s) to 60 percent by 1999; (ii) enhancing educational quality
through a series of innovative school-based initiatives, including teacher-developed training
activities, text book management, student health and nutrition, and evaluation of student learning;
and (iii) restructuring and streamlining higher education to respond to changing employment
priorities and tighter budget constraints. The effort to increase enrollment rates at the primary
level, particularly for girls, will necessitate hiring at least 1,600 new teachers (either contractuals
or civil servants) annuatly over the next three years. The Government has also created a new
ministry to work on the issue of technical and vocational training aimed at enhancing Guinea's
human resources through skills training at the end of the primary school cycle and in advanced
technologies, continuing education, and retraining of workers.
5.3   Other measures are under consideration. Besides moving to a contract teacher system, the
Government is also considering decentralizing recruitment, posting, payment, and budgeting by
region, with regional offices responsible for the management of the non-salary recurrent budgets.
Finally, in line with actions in the other priority sectors, the Government will raise the share of the
budget going to the two education ministries, with primary education to get 43 percent of this
combined total by the year 2000, which includes the target of GNF 5000 and GNF 8000
equivalent per primary and secondary student, respectively, for pedagogic materials.
B.    HEALTH AND NUTRITION
5.4   Despite policy improvements and better performance in some areas such as immunization
and prenatal care programs, the health sector is still severely under-budgeted with very low non-
wage expenditures. As a result, health status indicators still compare poorly with other Sub-
Saharan countries. In relative terms, expenditures for tertiary care remain high. To address the
major challenges facing the health sector, the Government intends to adopt the following
measures: (i) to increase the Government's non-wage expenditure allocated for health, ensure
efficient utilization of such expenditure, and shift expenditure toward districts and basic health
care services; (ii) to improve primary health care, including more effective action to deal with
infectious diseases and nutrition-related conditions, particularly in remote areas; (iii) to increase
the rate of utilization of services, making a more efficient use of resources; (iv) to set up an
incentive system for motivating health personnel to work in remote areas; (v) to pursue
decentralization, and update and apply the personnel redeployment plan, with a view to enhancing
resource management and ensuring continuity of care; and (vi) to promote greater community
involvement in health policy development and the financing and management of health care.
C.  RURAL DEVELOPMENT
5.5   Agricultural development emphasized a decentralized and integrated community-based
approach to service delivery with the following objectives: (i) to promote food security; (ii)
rehabilitate and promote agricultural exports; (iii) to rehabilitate and maintain rural infrastructure



13
and related services; (iv) to introduce participatory management of natural resources in order to
preserve the productive base; and (iv) to foster a greater contribution by private enterprises to the
development of the agricultural sector through the privatization of input distribution and the
simplification of import procedures. Guinea also enjoys one of the most bountiful fishery regions
in the world, with some of the most highly priced fish species. The Government must, however,
make a major effort to improve the management and protection of fishery resources, which have
sharply declined, and to enhance the capacity to collect fees and other revenues from the industrial
fishing sub-sector.
5.6   Tailoring the State's role to the demands of these priorities is one of the primary concerns
of the Government. Based on the Public Expenditure Review, which notes the high share of
agriculture in both the recurrent budget on account of the large wage bill and the investment
budget, efforts will be needed to transform the bloated administration into a more efficient
development- and service-oriented agency. Administrative reforms have been undertaken in
departments and services in charge of livestock, agricultural extension, research, and policy
coordination and will need to be extended to other departments, and more specifically to the one
in charge of agriculture (Direction nationale de l'agriculture or DNA). This process is being
pursued in the context of the National Agricultural Services Project. More specifically, the
Agriculture Ministry (MAEF) will: (i) sharply redefine the role of the state in that sector and its
key functions; and (ii) undertake a staff audit using updated information on the computerized
roster of personnel, in order to evaluate capacities within the ministry and clean up personnel
assignments. The political and social costs of probable redundancies will be mitigated through
reassignment (after retraining) to other priority sectors with unmet needs and through appropriate
compensatory schemes and safety nets, building on the lessons of experience and best practices
from Guinea and elsewhere.
D. ROAD MAINTENANCE
5.7   After 25 years of neglect, Guinea's transport sector was, by the mid-1980s, among the
least efficient in the region and constitutes a major obstacle to economic development.
Government's efforts in the sector have, however, managed to yield some important results,
notably: (i) the expansion of the road network; (ii) 100 percent of road maintenance now
contracted to the private sector; and (iii) a greater involvement of the private sector and the
regions in the elaboration of the sector's strategy. One major constraint to the management of the
sector continues to be the availability on a timely basis of the resources allocated to road
maintenance. The creation of a Road Fund which also benefits from contribution by donors (and
particularly the European Union) has not solved the above problem. The maintenance of the road
network will thus require: (i) guaranteeing the availability of resources through a road users' fee
which will be established; (ii) providing financial autonomy to a second generation type of road
fund which will be handled by a new, privately managed road agency (Autorite routiere); and (iii)
promoting the decentralization and strengthening of road repair and maintenance services which
would include community participation. The Government is finalizing the strategy for the sector,
which includes considerations of supplementing resources by the Government and donors with
users' fees under an autonomous road authority.



14
6. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A.   OBJECTIVES AND TIMING
6.1   Expenditure management is central to this operation, which seeks to correct critical
weaknesses that were highlighted in the PER and discussed in paragraphs 2.6 to 2.8 concerning
budget preparation and implementation and the complex institutional environment in expenditure
management which minimizes accountability and transparency, thus adversely affecting the impact
of public services. The proposed Credit will support measures designed to:
*  reorient public expenditures toward education, health, road maintenance, and support
for rural development which benefit the country's majority of the poor in the context
of a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF);
*  within these sectors: (i) rationalize the respective roles of the state, local communities,
and other providers of services; (ii) shift resources in line with intra-sectoral priorities;
and (iii) improve the efficiency of public expenditures;
3  ensure the quality and volume of basic social services while maintaining conditions
amenable to a stable macroeconomic situation; and
-  strengthen budget implementation, monitoring, and control through a series of
initiatives, most particularly the introduction of a computerized expenditure
monitoring system, ex-post audits of actual spendings, and simpler and more
transparent budgetary procedures including Government procurement.
6.2   The great number of measures that have already been implemented and those that need to
be completed by the end of 1997 do raise the issue of timetable realism and thus the risk of
slippage in implementation. While this cannot be completely avoided particularly when some of
these measures may take time, the time pressure reflects GOG's strong commitment to put in
place the necessary instruments to help overhaul budget preparation and implementation before
the beginning of budget year 1998. In addition, beginning with the 1998 budget, which will start
next January, the Government will implement the MTEF to be applied first to the six ministries
representing the four priority sectors listed above. The MTEF approach will be extended to all
ministries by budget year 2000.
B.   CREDIT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
6.3   The proposed project has two main components. The first aims at restructuring public
expenditures by giving more emphasis to the four sectors identified by the Government as priority
areas (education, health, rural development, and road maintenance). These four sectors, which
comprise seven separate line ministries, will adopt, starting in fiscal year 1998, a medium-term
expenditure framework (MTEF) which will be described in more detail below. The second



15
component of the project is designed to strengthen budgetary implementation and control through
the adoption of a computer-based public sector financial information system, more rigorous
implementation of the regulatory framework, especially those related to financial control and
procurement, and the standardization and simplification of budgetary processes.
6.4   Based on the analysis of problems facing public expenditure management in Guinea
detailed in the Public Expenditure Review and subsequent workshops organized by Bank staff for
Government officials representing key sectors and central ministries, the pressing need for
reforming public expenditure management was widely felt within the administration. Line ministry
staff whose work suffers from the unreliability of financial resources and the complex institutional
environment which characterizes budget implementation, are most enthusiastic about the reform
program proposed in PEMAC. Its broad knowledge of the problems and its predisposition
toward changes led the Government to take a major role in the design of PEMAC. For instance,
the medium-term framework for the priority sectors was elaborated by national working teams
representing the sectors with Bank staff s help in preparing terms of reference and quality
checking. Efforts to strengthen budget implementation and monitoring are primarily driven by the
Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister's Office.
6.5   Because of PEMAC's anticipated impact on the management of public expenditures, it
was suggested that it also covers a number of related policy issues which either lack a framework
for the World Bank's assistance such as legal reforms and banking sector restructuring, or affect
sectors such as agriculture that are covered by the MTEF but are not directly related to public
expenditure management, e.g., the Government's role in agricultural input distribution. Concerns
about diluting the impact of the proposed project, however, weight the decision in favor of an
operation focusing more narrowly on overhauling public expenditure management. The decision
not to include the issues listed above as part of PEMAC's reform program does not mean that
they will entirely be neglected. For instance, to highlight the importance of legal reforms, the
Justice Ministry will be covered by the MTEF approach in FY99. In agriculture, the proposed
project will look more carefully at the need for internal restructuring of the Ministry of
Agriculture, which will likely involve staff reduction. To avoid extending the PEMAC at the risk
of making it less effective, other issues such as input distribution will not be covered by the
proposed project.
1.    Restructuring of Public Expenditures
6.6   To assist the Government in its decision to reorient expenditures according to the above
strategic priorities, this component of PEMAC has three dimensions: (i) the development of a
medium-term expenditure framework to help the Government and the concerned ministries
prioritize inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral expenditures; (ii) the implementation of a result-
oriented system of service delivery through ex-post evaluation of performance indicators and the
wide dissemination of results; and (iii) ensuring aggregate fiscal discipline through the
introduction of clear inter-sectoral allocations rules and hard budget constraints.
6.7   The MTEF is a strategic policy and expenditure framework within which line ministries
are provided with greater responsibility for allocating resources to priority activities.  The
adoption of the MTEF, which began in four priority sectors in 1998, was preceded by a detailed



16
exercise involving the estimation over a three-year period of the costs of the sectors' policies as
reflected by their priority activities, and matching those with the availability of resources which
were themselves derived from detailed and realistic macroeconomic revenue projections. Thus,
the MTEF provides the Government the means for:
*  developing the required information base to make meaningful reallocations between
sectors in accordance with Government priorities;
*  developing the information on the actual costs of various services in each sector as the
basis for making meaningful reallocations within the sectors; and
*  increasing the predictability of funding for line ministries in a medium-term framework.
6.8   Starting with detailed work within the four priority sectors and under the guidance of
Bank staff, the Government has already completed the various preparatory steps for an effective
implementation of the MTEF in January 1998. Based on the experience of the first group of four
priority sectors, other ministries will undertake preparatory work to roll out the MTEF to the
entire Government by the year 2000. The following activities have already been undertaken by
the Government:
D  developing a consistent macroeconomic framework and, from this, realistic revenue
projections for the 1998-2000 period. Starting from primary surplus targets as defined
in the ESAF program and deducting statutory payments such as pensions and debt
servicing and the civil service wage bill, overall available resources for public
investments (from domestic sources) and non-wage recurrent expenditures were
estimated. The issue of the wage bill will be revisited in subsequent years in light of
staff requirements to undertake sectoral programs of activities;
*  determining for each of the four sectors priority spending programs/targets for 1998-
2000 based on sectoral objectives, detailed cost estimates, and consultations with
beneficiaries;
*  defining sectoral financial envelopes and budget allocations for 1998. Pending
confirmation of 1998 budget figures following the recent IMF mission, these will be
approved by the Cabinet. To highlight their importance in the Government's strategy,
these sectors as a group will receive increasingly larger allocations, both in absolute
and in relative terms, compared to previous years. To provide adequate funds for
priority areas, the Government reviewed and reduced expenditures in non-priority
sectors; and
*  developing performance indicators specific to the sectors to monitor the effectiveness
of public services and designing an ex-post evaluation system of impact of financial
outlays (including disbursement rates).



17
Table 6.1: Allocations of Non-Wage
Recurrent Expenditures, 1997-98 (percent)
Sectors                    1997                  1998
Rural development                    1.05                  1.17
Public health                        2.38                  3.00
Education                            13.35                15.00
Road maintenance                     8.77                 10.00
Priority Sectors                    25.55                 29.17
Other sectors                       52.06                 48.33
Collective expenditures             22.39                 22.50
Total                               100.00                100.00
6.9   For the implementation of the MTEF in budget year 1998, the Government has already
decided to increase budgetary allocations to the four priority sectors. As a group, the share of the
non-wage recurrent budget of the four priority sectors will increase from 25.5% in 1997 to 29.2%
in 1998 (Table 6.1). Although concrete figures have not been determined for the following two
years, the Government has committed to further increase the share of non-wage recurrent and
development budgets allocated to the priority sectors. Of the four sectors, spending on education
is expected to continue to rise rapidly in line with the Government's commitment to raising school
attendance at the primary level. About 1,600 new teachers have already been recruited for the
current academic year; this trend should continue in the next several years. Cognizant of the
imbalances between wage and non-wage expenditures (as presented in Table 2.1), the
Government will, in the near future, undertake staff audits in the priority sectors with the aim of
reallocating civil servants toward high priority areas and promoting decentralization.
6.10  To take into account the fragility on the revenue front, more attention and importance has
been given to macroeconomic forecasting. First, revenue projections have been recasted in a
medium-term perspective (by a joint Planning-Finance team) instead of the yearly exercises
elaborated in the context of budgetary exercises. Second, budgetary allocation was made on the
basis of more realistic revenue projections; should actual revenue mobilization surpass the
projections, the Government will favor the four priority sectors in the allocation of the additional
revenue. Revenue strengthening, which is not explicitly covered by PEMAC, will be part of the
ESAF and the companion capacity building project. Finally, the links between the three-year
rolling public investment program (PIP) and the MTEF have been strengthened to ensure that
priority sector requirements are satisfied, subject to macroeconomic constraints, and to improve
consistency between capital and recurrent expenditures.
2.    Improving Budget Implementation and Monitoring
6.11  In parallel to efforts to restructure expenditures using the MTEF approach, the
Government is also implementing a series of measures to: (i) strengthen budgetary monitoring and



18
control; (ii) strengthen the regulatory framework that governs the processing of public
expenditures; and (iii) standardize and simplify budgetary processes to expedite the process as
well as to minimize the risk of corruption. The Government has already adopted a series of
measures, the most noteworthy being:
*  strengthening the monitoring of budget implementation with the adoption of a
computer-based public sector financial information system. The system will introduce
new rules in the monitoring of the expenditure process, notably: (i) no expenditure
commitment will, in the future, be possible outside of this system; (ii) the processing of
expenditures will be controlled according to a set timetable, and delays, which were
frequent occurrences in the previous management system, will be minimized; and (iii)
starting October 1997, computerized monthly information on budget implementation
for each line ministry (commitments, verifications of delivery, payment orders, and
effective payments) will be published and disseminated to all line ministries. Besides
ensuring the control of budget implementation, the wide dissemination of information
which hitherto had been restricted to Ministry of Finance staff is expected to improve
transparency and accountability. The system is currently accessible by all departments
of the Ministry of Finance; within the next two years, it will be extended to all line
ministries, the Central Bank, and the Prime Minster's Office;
*  public accounts (including Treasury accounts) are being audited by a team of experts
under the guidance of a senior inspector from the French Treasury Department with
the aim of producing, for the first time in Guinea's history, actual (realized)
expenditures for budget year 1996. Audits of budget implementation for subsequent
years will be produced, on a regular basis, six months following the end of the budget
year;
*  strengthening the regulatory framework that governs expenditure control with a focus
on financial control. Following a functional analysis of the Ministry of Finance, a
separate Financial Control Department was created with as main role the overall
oversight of budget implementation.   This action was supplemented by the
strengthening of budget and finance staff (known as the DAAF or the Division of
Administrative and Financial Affairs) in all line ministries;
*  a new procurement code was recently adopted.  Its effective implementation is
expected to enforce Government procurement rules, more particularly: (i) all
Government spending in excess of the minimum amount prescribed by regulations will
be rejected if not processed by tenders; and (ii) starting October 1997, the
Government began issuing a bi-weekly procurement newsletter providing detailed
information on all Government tenders, procurement offers, and contracts, and
monthly information on Government purchases by procurement for each line ministry.
To help enforce these new regulations, the Minister of Finance has already informed
suppliers that their contracts with the Government may be considered non valid if the
above procedures were not respected;



19
*  a new budget classification, which is being used to elaborate the 1998 budget, was
designed to incorporate detailed information along functional and economic
categories; and
*  the Government has also begun the effort to allocate what is known as "collective
spendings" (dWpenses communes) to individual line ministries. This effort, which will
continue, will make it possible to undertake a more detailed analysis of budget shares
of individual ministries.
6.12 In addition to the significant list of measures already implemented by GOG, the Borrower
will have, before the start of the 1998 budget in January 1998, completed:
a) selected performance indicators for the four priority areas to assess the impact of the
Government's actions;
b) an ex-post monitoring system of real outcomes in the four priority sectors and of
overall public expenditure management;
c) a monitoring system of financial outcomes of budget implementation (including the
format of cash flow projections to be produced on a quarterly basis by MEF and the
seven priority ministries);
d) a system to ensure the availability of counterpart funding to donor-financed projects
relying on quarterly projections of funding needs;
e) nomination of the Director and staffing of the Financial Control Department (Ministry
of Finance); and
f) the audited accounts of budget year 1996.
C.    CONDITIONS OF TRANCHE RELEASE
6.13  Because of their relative low shares in the overall budget (referring to Table 2.1) and the
fact that actual disbursements vary enormously among sectors and across years (as shown in
Table 6.2), it is critical that concrete measures be adopted to ensure the availability of non-wage
recurrent resources to the priority sectors. These measures will contribute to the monitoring of
budget implementation in 1998. The first tranche will be released upon effectiveness of the
proposed Credit provided the overall macroeconomic situation remains satisfactory.



20
Table 6.2: Actual Disbursement of Non-Wage Recurrent Expenditures
1994-August 1997
(millions of Guinean francs)
Agricultue             Road Madntanoce                Health                  Education
Budget  Disburse- Disburse-  Budget  Disbrse Disburse-  Budget  Disburse Disbure   Budget  Disbure- Didbuse-
Year allocations  ments    ment  allocations  ments    ment  allocations  ments    malt  allocations   ment t
rate                     rate                      rate                      rate
(1)     (2)    (2Y(1)    (1)      (2)   (2)/(l)    (1)      (2)   (2Y(l)    (1)       (2)   (2Y(l)
1994    251.0   203.4    81.0   2500.0  1300.0    52.0   3400.0  2327.0    62.4  12778.0 12164.2   95.2
1995    472.0   232.9    49.4   4500.0  4400.0    97.8   4500.0   920.0    20.4  11749.1  6796.4   57.8
1996    307.6   206.1    67.0   4700.0  3400.0    72.3   6000.0  1068.0    17.8  11478.7  4731.8   41.2
1997*    408.3   112.6    27.6   7000.0  1500.0    21.4   4000.0  2178.0    54.0  12110.3  5966.8   49.3
* January-August 1997
Source: Govemment Statistics (various sources)
Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche
6.14    Subject to continuing satisfactory performance on the macroeconomic front (based on
results of the mid-termn review of the second annual arrangement of the IMF's ESAF scheduled in
June 1998), the second tranche will be released after a satisfactory review of budget
implementation for the January-June 1998 period. More specifically:
(i)     The Borrower has:
(a) submitted to the Association evidence satisfactory to it that it has actually
disbursed a total amount of non-wage recurrent budgetary resources equivalent to
at least GNF 3.8 billion for education, GNF 2 billion each for health and road
maintenance, and GNF 635 million for rural development during the January-June
1998 period.
(b) recruited at least 1600 additional primary school teachers for school year 1998-
99 and spent on pedagogical materials an amount equivalent to GNF 5000 per
student at the primary school level and GNF 8000 per student at the secondary
level.
(ii)    The Borrower has submitted to the Association:
(a) the draft comprehensive audit (Projet de loi de riglement global) covering the
implementation of all budgets up until the end of 1997; and
(b) a restructuring plan for the Department of the Treasury, Ministry of Economy
and Finance.



21
(iii)  The Borrower has submitted to the Association a report of such scope and details
agreed upon with the Association on the execution of the 1998 budget, including a report
describing the progress achieved in the implementation of:
(a) the revised budgetary procedures adopted in July 1997; and
(b) the new procurement procedures enacted in November 1997.
(iv)   The Borrower has submitted a reorganization plan for MAEF acceptable to the
Association; and
(v)   the Borrower has submitted an action plan and a timetable acceptable to the
Association for the purposes of establishing a financially autonomous road agency to
ensure the timely availability of funding required for road maintenance.
D.   IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
1.    Coordination by the Government
6.15  The Government's reform effort under the proposed PEMAC will be implemented under
the overall supervision of a Steering Committee chaired by the Chief of Staff of the Prime
Minister's Office.  This Committee is composed of high-level staff (national directors)
representing central ministries (Ministry of Economy and Finance and Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation), heads of technical groups involved in the elaboration of the new expenditure
framework from line ministries representing the four priority areas, and representatives of the
cabinet of the line ministries (normally the General Secretary). The Committee will be responsible
for monitoring the program, including timely commitments of expenditures by priority ministries,
training of budget offices in line ministries, effective disbursements, performance indicators, and
for coordinating the activities of all Government agencies involved in the adjustment program.
Implementation of the agreed policy actions will be monitored on a regular basis by Bank staff.
The overall reform effort will be reviewed by regular Bank missions in close coordination with the
IMF and other cofinancing donors to ensure continued implementation of the public sector reform
within a sound macroeconomic framework.
6.16 To supervise the implementation of the new expenditure management approach in the four
priority sectors, steering committees will be created in each of the seven ministries in charge of
the four sectors. Headed by the Ministry's General Secretary and regrouping key staff involved in
delivering the Ministry's program, including representatives of staff at lower levels of the
Government, these committees will meet on a monthly basis to decide on the allocation of the
ministry's resources to priority expenditures. In the Education Ministry, the existing steering
committee would add this to its tasks. The DAAFs, which are appointed by the Minister of
Finance to oversee administrative and financial matters in line ministries, will serve as secretaries
of these steering committees. Through their presidents, the committees will also play the role of
relaying the implementation of the new expenditure management between line ministry staff and
the overall Coordinating Committee described above.



22
2.    Supervision Focus and Timing - Role of Government
6.17  The initial measures adopted by the Government and measures to be implemented before
the release of the second tranche set the framework for a significant improvement in public
expenditure management. However, they must be viewed as important elements of a process
rather than an end in themselves; they would be followed up by actions throughout 1998 and
beyond. Accordingly, IDA will review implementation of the overall program of the proposed
Credit according to Table 6.3 which covers the period up to mid-1999. The monitoring of the
reform program will, after the disbursement of the second tranche (expected in the fall of 1998),
continue in the context of the capacity building project and other sector specific investment
projects. Table 6.3 shows the focus of supervision which stresses effective implementation of
measures and actions. Coordination of supervising the PEMAC will be the responsibility of the
Task Team Leader in close collaboration with the Guinea Country Economist, the economist at
the Resident Mission, and representatives of the four priority sectors. As the MTEF approach
will be extended to other ministries, there will be the need to involve representatives from other
sectors.
6.18 The Coordinating Committee created by the Government for project design and
implementation will play a major role in monitoring progress of the reforms. In addition, new
information to be made available by the Ministry of Finance (on budget implementation, purchases
through procurement, and sectoral allocations) and by priority line ministries (budget
implementation and performance indicators) and to be disseminated under the coordination of the
Ministry of Planning will promote collective monitoring of reform implementation and minimize
delays. The regular publication by the Government of performance indicators in the four priority
areas will also encourage beneficiaries of public services to be more involved in the operation.
Lastly, as many of the reforms are complex, supervision missions will need to be staffed to
provide detailed technical assistance as necessary. As well, because of the close complementarity
of the reforms covered by the proposed Credit, IMF staff will be invited to participate in
supervision missions. Technical assistance for policy implementation will be needed for reforms in
almost all sectors. Initial support for the program will be supported by a Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) grant from the Japanese Government and on-going IDA-
financed investment projects in education, health, and rural development. A capacity building
project is under accelerated preparation to provide additional financial resources and technical
assistance needed to consolidate the reform process and extend it to all line ministries .



23
Table 6.3: Supervision Plan
TASK                                    1998                1999
QI   QII   Qm    QIV   QI   QiI
EXPENDITURE RESTRUCTURING                            QQ__
Increase resource allocation to priority sectors according to
disbursed amounts                                     X     X      X      X     X      X
Implement selected performance indicators in four priority
sectors                                                            X      X     X      X
Roll-out MTEF process to other Ministries                   X      X      X
Cabinet approval of FY99 sectoral budget envelopes                 X
Finalize budget plan for FY99                                      .      X
STRENGTHENING BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
Produce monthly budget implementation reports based on
computerized system (also showing percent of spending by  X  X     X      X     X      X
procement)
Produce audited expenditures for budget year 1997                  X
Implement simplified procedures for expenditure       X     X      X      X     X      X
management                                                     __
Implement (new) standardized budgetary classification  X    X      X      X     X      X
INSTITUTIONAL AND SECTORAL REFORMS
Complete staff census and personnel audit of all priority
ministries                                                   X
Adopt a restructuring program for the Ministry of                   X
Agriculture
Approve the recruitment of at least 1,600 new primary school  X
teachers for 1998-99 school year
Recruit 1,600 new primary school teachers                           X
Disbursement of resources for pedagogic materials     X      X      X     X      X     X
Disbursement of resources for non-wage recurrent resources    X  X  X     X      X     X
in health                                                                      _
Performance indicators of the effectiveness of service delivery     X     X      X     X
Effective disbursement of resources provided for in the Road
Fund.                                                 X      X      X     X      X     X
Strategy to introduce road users' fees and autonomous Road  X  X    X
Agency                                                                                 _
Note: Q refers to quarter
3.     Performance Indicators and Benchmarks
6.19 There will be two sets of performance indicators which will be monitored under PEMAC.
The first set is needed by GOG to monitor the impact of policies on economic performance and
poverty reduction. As part of project design, priority sectors are establishing performance
indicators which will be produced  and  disseminated  widely.   In  terms of institutional
arrangements, the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation will coordinate the collection and
dissemination of sector-specific performance indicators. The Ministry of Economy and Finance,



24
equipped with the computerized public sector financial information system, wili coordinate and
disseminate financial performance on budget implementation.
Table 6.4: Selected Performance Indicators
Policy Indicators            Intermediate Indicators           Outcome Indicators
E___
*  Adopt expenditure goals       *  Improved accuracy and        *  Achieve overall budgetary
consistent with a stable         timeliness of public            outcomes
macroeconomic framework          expenditure information
*  Produce audited accounts of past  *  Ex-post reconciliation of  *  Stronger basis for future
budgets                          accounts and publication of     budget elaboration
fiscal results
*  Adoption of a framework for   .  Increased expenditure in     .  See below for sector-specific
articulating strategic allocations  priority sectors             indicators
*  Sectoral review of competing  *  Issue quarterly projections of   *  Meet sector-specific
priorities                       budgetary needs by priority     performance indicators which
ministries                      will be disseminated
*  Reach expenditure shares for:
- health                      - immunization rate              - infant mortality rate
- education                   - school attendance ratio        - literacy level
- road maintenance             - timely payments to road       - promotion of private sector
maintenance contractors
*  Reorganize Ministry of        *  Better quality of agricultural    *  Stronger agricultwual growth
Agriculture                      services
6.20 From the Bank's perspective, performance indicators will be monitored during supervision
to assess whether the program's ultimate objectives of growth, poverty, and better social
conditions have been met or whether policy corrections or complementary measures will be
required. Indicators are organized in three broad groups: (a) policy indicators, which monitor the
policy and institutional actions required to implement the adjustment program2; (b) intermediate
indicators, which track the impact of policy reforms on stabilization and the provision of key
services; and (c) outcome indicators, which monitor progress toward the ultimate objectives of
growth, poverty reduction, and better social conditions. Since the project aims primarily to
overhaul Guinea's public expenditure management system, the conditionalities, which are well-
defined policy actions within the control of the Government, supports three main aims, namely:
(i) improving aggregate fiscal discipline; (ii) strategic prioritizing across sectors; and (iii)
2   Performance indicators for the reform program covered by PEMAC should be distinguished from the
indicators which the Government has developed to monitor progress of public actions in the four priority
sectors (education, health, rural development, and roads) according to specific development objectives. The
latter are sector-specific and will be monitored by the Government while the performance indicators discussed
in this section will be monitored by Bank staff to assess the impact of the project.



25
improving the efficiency in the use of budgetary resources.  Of obvious interest to the
Government as project executor and to the Bank and other co-financiers is the impact of the
policy actions on economic incentives and performance and more general welfare indicators.
6.21 Based on recent research in the Bank, budgetary institutions are an important element in
good expenditure outcomes. Thus, in addition to the technical skills and management and
information systems being proposed in the project, institutional arrangements to ensure the
outcomes of the new operational environment must also be monitored. It is also important to
note the less tangible but very significant impact of the Bank's input to the whole reform process
in the form of advice, training, and overall facilitation. This painstaking process, which began
with the discussion of the PER over a year ago, has allowed members of the Guinean counterpart
team to fully own the process. Combining these various elements, performance indicators to be
monitored in the context of the proposed operation are presented in Table 6.4.
E.    CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
1.    Procurement and Disbursement
6.22 Procurement and disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures
approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an account in the Central
Bank of Guinea (BCRG). Upon IDA notification of tranche release, proceeds of the Credit will
be deposited in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-
member countries or goods and services in the standard negative list), IDA will require the
Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes or (ii)
refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed
amount of the Credit.
2.    Financing Plan
6.23  A total of US$70 million is expected to be provided under the proposed IDA Credit. The
African Development Bank has confirmed its decision to support the Government's public sector
reform program in association with IDA. Other development partners have indicated possible
assistance in support of the proposed adjustment program.
F.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
1.    Benefits
6.24  The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to assist Guinea getting
back on track toward macroeconomic and financial sustainability. In the broader context of the
CAS, it is also intended to help Guinea overhaul the whole management of its budget as a serious
first step towards improving governance. As well, PEMAC will improve public service
effectiveness in sectors which benefit the majority of the poor (public health, education, and
infrastructure) and are pivotal to the enhancement of Guinea's growth prospects through more



26
effective human resource development, improved physical infrastructure, and a more effective
government contribution to the development of the agricultural sector which is the second largest
economic sector in terms of value added and the largest provider of employment. By reinforcing
efforts towards macroeconomic stability, fiscal discipline, and a more transparent management of
the public sector, PEMAC will help to create a conducive environment for private sector-led
economic growth and to increase investors' confidence in the economy. Lastly, the proposed
Credit will also provide critical balance of payments support to ensure availability of resources to
cover import requirements and to increase the country's external reserves.
2.    Risks
6.25  The reform program to be supported by the proposed Credit faces risk in three areas: (i)
faltering commitment to reforms raising implementation risk, particularly since the measures
described above together the ESAF program constitute a weighty agenda which requires
continued commitment for reforms and cohesion within the present Government; (ii) significant
shortfalls in revenue mobilization which may disrupt the expenditure program and, hence, the
implementation of the new expenditure management system; and (iii) political resistance and
vested interests from different sources including civil servants and donors. While with lower
inflation, pressure for higher wages is expected to remain manageable, the teachers' strike of last
May indicates that pressure by civil servants for higher wages will persist. Also, the need for staff
retrenchment in agriculture and the reallocation of resources toward priority sectors at the
expenses of other sectors will likely lead to resistance from these specific groups. Finally,
resistance may also be expected from other donors who may feel that the new medium-term
expenditure framework will undermine their own priorities and procedures.
6.26  These risks have been carefully addressed during the preparation of the Credit. First, to
minimize implementation delays, PEMAC was designed with a focus on prior actions and a
relatively short implementation period not exceeding 12 months from credit effectiveness.
Second, close coordination with the IMF in the design of the reform program, timing of key
measures, and participation by staff of both institutions in supervision missions of PEMAC and
ESAF would provide the necessary lead time to take corrective measures in case of severe
revenue shortfall. Third, the proposed operation was designed with a strong focus on ownership
by the national working teams (see para. 6.4) and the empowerment of a broad layer of middle-
level staff in the budget preparation and implementation process. The Government has also taken
steps to inform other donors to the new expenditure management approach.
6.27 Finally, to minimize the social impact related to measures aimed at downsizing the MAEF
(once confirmed by staff audit), appropriate safety nets and other mitigating measures
(reassignment of excess staff to priority sectors in need) would be funded by the Government
using counterpart funds of the proposed PEMAC and other instruments such as credit under the
enterprise development project (Projet integre de developpement des entreprises, PRIDE)
financed by USAID. It is also expected that a small number (between 200 to 300) of agriculture
staff could, with appropriate retraining and through a competition recruitment process, be
transferred to other ministries. Civil servants who will no longer be needed will thus have several
options to consider; leaving the services of the Government is but one of the options.



27
7. RECOMMENDATION
7.1    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Gautam S. Kaji
Washington, D.C.
November 18, 1997
Attachments



28
Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
PREVIOUS ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
First Structural Adjustment Project, SAC I (FY 86)
Financing IDA                   SDR 22.9 million
Main Objectives
*  Support transition towards a market-oriented economic system
*  Reduce the size of the public sector
*  Stabilize the economy
Main Actions Taken
*  Fiscal sector         - Reduction of the civil service by 10,000 employees
* Monetary sector        - Creation of the Central Bank
- Privatization and establishment of four private banks
- Creation of a new currency following a fifteen-fold devaluation
and introduction of a foreign exchange auction system to
determine the exchange rate
*  Structural Reforms    - Liberalization of internal and external trade
-Price adjustments (rice, petroleum, coffee, etc.)
-Privatization/liquidation of public enterprises
Outcomes
* Growth accelerated and inflation slowed significantly.
* Private sector-led growth in agricultural, small-scale manufacturing, and services.
* Most prices were liberalized.
Implementation and Lessons
* Initial reforms went well during early phase of project.
* By mid-1987, weakening in the progress of reforms due to slippage in financial discipline and
weakness in management capacity.
* Second tranche was released 18 months behind schedule.



29
Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
Second Structural Adjustment Project, SAC II (FY 88)
Financing IDA            SDR 47 million
Main Objectives
* Continue to support economic reforms towards a market-oriented economy
* Reform the civil service
* Continue public enterprise reforms
* Improve legal and institutional incentives to promote private sector development
* Develop a comprehensive social policy
Main Actions Taken
*  Fiscal sector    - Improve domestic revenue mobilization
- Establish information system for the management of civil service
*  Monetary sector   - Increase role of market in determination of key interest rates
- Gradually remove restrictions on foreign exchange holdings and
transactions
*  Structural Reforms - Liberalize prices except for public utilities, rice, and fish
- Privatize petroleum products imports and marketing
- Privatize management of water and electricity distribution
Outcomes
* Macroeconomic impact was mixed due in part to declining prices of bauxite.
* Liberalization measures were mostly on track.
* Except for water and electricity, progress in reform of public enterprises was marginal.
* Information system for civil service management served mainly as an ex-post tool for
recording and did not contribute to a more effective management of the civil service.
Implementation and Lessons
* Very slow implementation reflecting a weakening commitment to forcefully pursue reforms
which became evident throughout 1987 (SAC I).
* Urgency of gap-fill financing need rushed preparation of the project which was ambitious in its
objectives (in light of the weak capacity).
* Project design was based on partial knowledge of the country (CEM).
* Project benchmarks were based on promulgation of laws and regulations rather than specific
outcomes.



30
Attachment I
Page 3 of 3
Financial Sector Adjustment Project, CASFI (FY 95)
Financing IDA            SDR 16.3 million
Main Objectives
* Strengthen the monetary, regulatory, supervisory and judicial environment of financial
institution operations.
* Develop a bridge between the informal and formal financial sectors.
* Improve financial institutions' management and operational capacity.
Main Actions Taken
- Enactment of a law in February 1994 on prudential regulations and appropriate surveillance
mechanisms for social security company.
- Establishment of appropriate mechanisms to supervise the activities of savings and loans
institutions.
* Enactment of a law in October 1995 on procedures applicable for loan recoveries made by
financial institutions.
* Publication of a judicial gazette to ensure regular publication of decisions of the courts and
tribunals of Guinea since 1995.
* Adoption of an action plan to expand mutual credit and rural credit operations.
* Reduction of the Government's share in the capital of main bank and insurance companies.
Outcomes
* Most of the measures were implemented but significant gaps persisted between promulgation
of laws and their effective application.
* Lack of effective penalties on banks failing prudential regulations have led to insolvency in
half of the existing commercial banks. Measures are being taken to correct this situation.
Implementation and Lessons
* Second tranche was slightly delayed while waiting for results on macroeconomic stabilization
within context of IMF program.
* Like SAC II, design of benchmarks focused on promulgation of legislation but gave little
importance to their effective application.



31
Attachment II
Page I of 3
Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1991     1992    1993      1994    1995      1996     1997     1998
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture'                              24.2    24.4    24.3    24.7    24.5         23.8     26.2     26.5
Industry'                                 33.0    32.3    31.8    31.6    31.4         35.6     36.0     36.3
Services'                                 42.8    43.3    43.7    43.7    44.0         38.6     37.8     37.2
Total Consumption                          84.4    88.8    89.0    91.0    89.9         90.0      88.1     88.0
Gross domestic fixed                       16.5    16.5    16.2    13.6    14.5         13.0      14.2     14.7
investment
Government investment                      7.8      7.5     7.1      6.1      6.5       5.5      6.5      6.6
Private investment                         8.7      9.0     9.1      7.5      8.1       7.5      7.7      8.0
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                            28.4    24.2    22.4    19.8    21.7         19.0     21.3      21.2
Imports (GNFS)                             29.3    29.5    27.7    24.4    26.1         22.1      23.7     23.9
Gross domestic savings                      15.6    11.2    11.0       9.0    10.1      10.0      11.9     12.0
Gross national savingse                     8.2      4.2      5.5      4.9      6.2      5.4       7.2      7.3
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                     2982    2974    3176    3395    3673         3918    3973      4270
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per                   ..   490.0   510.0   520.0   540.0    560.0    560.0    580.0
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(0/0, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at                2.4%     3.0%     4.7/o    4.0%     4.4%     4.5%     4.8Y      4.9%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                    0.3%    -0.2%     2.4%     4.4%     3.1%     4.70/    4.4%      4.5%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%), calculated
from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at                0.6%    -0.5%     1.3%     1.1%     1.5%     1.6%      1.8%     2.0%
market prices
Total consumption                        0.2%     2.1%    -1.4%     4.0%    -1.0%     1.8%    -0.5Yo    1.2%
Private consumption                      0.2%     2.6%    -0.9%     5.7Yo   -1.3%     2.2%    -1.6%      0.7Yo
(continued)



32
Attachment II
Page 2 of 3
Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                Estimate         Projected
Indicator               1991    1992    1993    1994    1995        1996     1997     1998
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)                          848.0   719.6   712.5   672.1   798.0    745.8    848.0    905.4
Merchandise FOB                       790.2   656.8   665.0   625.9   747.5    695.8    797.1    853.7
Imports (GNFS)b                         874.7   878.0   878.8   829.3   960.2    865.9    942.2   1020.1
Merchandise FOB                       734.9   739.9   732.2   687.9   809.2    713.5    778.9    844.5
Resource balance                         -26.7  -158.4  -166.3  -157.1  -162.3   -120.1    -94.2   -114.8
Net current transfers                   -42.2   -63.5   -54.4   -24.6    -7.0    -31.8    -12.2    -26.9
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                -138.0  -231.7  -223.0  -191.2  -184.9   -182.4   -167.0   -191.5
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct               61.0   105.8   100.4    81.6    96.5        40.3     34.4     25.5
investment
Long-term loans (net)                    52.1    61.8   105.1    -7.7    63.2        44.7    101.9    99.4
Official                               155.1   156.9   241.9   128.9    43.7        44.4    169.9    168.2
Private                               -103.0   -95.1  -136.8  -136.6    19.5         0.3    -68.0    -68.9
Other capital (net, including            43.1    67.4    66.8    82.9    38.0        70.2     49.2     75.6
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                     -18.2    -3.3   -49.3    34.4   -12.7        27.2    -18.4     -8.9
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                   -0.9/0  -5.3%    -5.2%    -4.6%    -4.4%    -3.1%    -2.4%    -2.7%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1987 prices)
Merchandise exports                     2.3%    -8.7%    14.4%   -6.7%    12.0%     0.5%    14.3%     7.1%
(FOB)
Primary                                -2.3%   -11.4%    12.3%    -8.6%   9.0%     5.6%    10.6%     4.9%
Manufactures                              ..       ..      ..       ..      ..
Merchandise imports                     0.8%    -2.2%     4.4%    -8.0%    7.0%    -8.90/0   10.2%    5.6%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                         14.7    13.5    11.6    10.8    11.8        10.2     11.7     12.5
Current expenditures                     12.5    11.3      9.7      9.4      9.1      8.9      8.9      8.9
(Continued)



33
Attachment II
Page 3 of 3
Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate           Projected
Indicator                 1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997      1998
Current account surplus (+)                 2.2       2.2      1.9      1.4      2.6       1.3      2.8       3.6
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                         10.4     10.0      9.4      8.1      8.6       7.4      8.6       8.9
Foreign financing                            5.0      6.0      7.0      3.0      5.0       4.2      5.9       5.3
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                    8.6      8.9      9.3      8.3      8.4       7.9      8.0       8.0
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                           34.5      22.9     18.8    -2.6      10.9       2.3     10.4       8.9
Private sector credit growth /             30.8      68.6   333.3      56.8     58.1      15.9    -68.7    -95.5
total credit growth (%/6)
Price Indices (1987=100)
Merchandise export price                   107.3     97.7     86.5     87.2     93.0      86.1     86.3      86.4
index
Merchandiseimportprice                     115.1    118.5    112.3    114.7    126.2    122.1    121.0    124.3
index
Merchandise terms of trade                  93.2     82.5     77.0     76.0     73.7      70.5     71.3      69.5
index
Real exchange rate                          75.8     70.3     73.0     71.4     67.3      64.4     67.7      64.0
(USSLCU),
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                      19.6%    16.6%     7.1%     4.2%     5.6%      5.6%      4.5%     5.1%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                              18.0%    15.9%     8.1%     5.0%     5.2%      3.8%      4.5%     4.0%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



34
Attachment I
Main Economic Indicators
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                 Estimate         Projected
Indicator                1991   1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998
Total debt outstanding and           2622.3   2648.1   2848.0   3107.8   3241.7   3257.0   3959.2   3920.3
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Net disbursements (US$m)'             122.2    142.5   237.3    121.7       53.0    36.3    207.0    191.2
Total debt service (TDS)               136.1    87.0     83.9     99.2   209.1    170.5    124.1    155.8
(USSm)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/0)
TDO/XGSb                             303.6    363.3    393.4   452.3    400.7    409.7    441.8    408.2
TDO/GDP                               87.9     89.0     89.7     91.5     88.3     83.1     99.7     91.8
TDSJXGS                               15.8     11.9     11.6     14.4    25.8      21.5     13.8    16.2
Concessional/TDO                      10.2     76.4     77.7     77.2     78.8    79.1      66.7    68.6
IBRD exposure indicators (/O)
IBRD DS/public DS                     10.4     18.3      9.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public          30.8     56.0    39.1      39.2     37.9     37.2     47.6    48.8
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                            1.6      2.1      1.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Share of IBRD portfolio
IFC (USSm)
Loans                                                                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Equity and quasi-equity /c                                                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                                                     0.0      0.0      8.4      8.4
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



35
Attachment II
Page I of 2
Main Economic Indicators
Table 3: Guinea at a Glance
sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Sa          Low.
Guinea     Afdca  Inconm        Development diemond
Popultion mid-1995 (millions)                           6.6       583    3,180                  Life expectancy
GNP por capita 1995 (USS)                               550       490       430
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                                 3.6       288    1,382
Avenge mnua growth, 1990456
Population (%)                                          2.7        2.6      1.7      GNP                              Gregg
Laborforce (%)                                          2.4        2.6      1.7      per   I                         primary
Most recent estimate (latet year available sinc 1989l                                capita                        enrollment
Povert  headcount index (% of populabtion)
Urban popultion (% of total populabon)                   30        31        29
Life exptacy at birth (years)                            44        52        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                128        92        69               Access to safe vwter
Child malnurition (% of children under 5)                18 
Acrs to safe water (% of population)                     49        47        53
llibtracy(%ofpopulationageI5+)                           76        43        34          -      Gune
Gross primary enrolmevnt (% of schooage population)      44        72       105          -      Low hcome__roup
male                                  so        ~~~     ~~~~~~78  112Lw,omgru
Frnale                                                 29        65        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1875     1986       1904     1995
Ecoono mie rtio*'-
GDP (billions USS)                               ..                3.4      3.7
GrossdomsetioinvesnonGWDP                       ..       ..       13.6     14.8              Opennessaofeconomy
Expo* t of goods and srcslGDP                    .        ..      19.8     21.0
Gross dormestic savingslGDP                      ..      ..        9.0     10.7
Gross national savingslGDP                       ..      ..        7.9      6.1
Current acoount balance/GDP                 ...-7.3 4                       5.3              Siving hvestment
Interest paymentslGDP                            ..      ..        1.2      1.1      SavinIet
Total debWGDP                                    ..      ..       91.5     87.9
Total debt service/exports                      ..       ..       14.6     25.3
Presn tvalue of debt/GOP                        ..       ..       57.8     57.1
Present value of debtexports                    ..       ..    290.3    294.3                     Indebtedness
197544  1905546       1994     1995
(aveage annua/ owh)                                                                            Guiea
GP                                               ..     3.7        4.0      4.6          _    Lowincomegroup
GNPpercapita                                            1.4        1.7      1.9
Exportsofgoodsandservices                       ..      3.1       -6.4      7.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     19Bf       1994     19056      Growth of Investment and GOP (%l
(CoffGDP)
Agriculture                                     ..                24.1     24.1       20
Industry                                             ..           30.8     30.5
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..       4.6       4.7 .
Services                                         ..       .       45.1     45.4           
so~~~~~~~~9
Private consumption                             ..       ..       82.3     80.9      .10
General government consumption                  ..       ..        8.7      8.5               -      GDI   -       P-Gop
Imports of goods and serv                       ..       ..       24.4     25.1
1975444  1985-5       19S4     1905       a ro wth o t exportaa nd Impo n %)
(awrsgeannual growfh)GothoexotenIm rt  %
Agriculture                                     ..      4.2        5.1      5.0       20
Industry                                        ..      2.5        3.2      3.8
Manufacturing                                  ..       .          .        .       l.. ,    
Services    .                                           4.3        4.0      4.9       o
Private consumption                             ..      3.4        6.5      2.3              go    91 93                   9 
General govemnent consumption                   ..      5.2       -2.2      4.8
Gross domestic investment                        ..     1.6       -9.0     14.0      -20
Imports of goods and services                   ..      2.0      -10.7      7.2             -Export           o   Ivneort
Gross national product                          ..      4.3        4.4      4.6
World Development Indicatos CD-ROM, Worid Bank February 1997
Note: Figures in italics are for years oer than thos specified. The diamonds show four key indicators in te country (In bold)
compared with its income-group average. I date are missing, the diamond vwill be incomplete.



36
Attachment II
Page 2 of 2
Main Economic Indicators
Table 3: Guinea at a Glance
PRICS NmW GOVNM fNT FINACE
Inflation 1%1
g%ch)                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30
Consmer irs                                      ..        .          .        .
ImplIc GDP delator                                                  5.0      5.3      20.
d OfGDP)                                                                               o                               9     06
C    trv                                         ..       ..         ..        .               00     l    92    93    W    9b
Curlen budgtb                                                                                      GOP del.    0   CPI
OesI suldki                                      ..       .._.._..
TRADE
1tim     IS         1"im     1
(mUbr USS)                                                                             Export and Import lovels (mill. Us$)
TO  expots (ftb)                               401       493       518       583      am
Fus minerls, nd ma                                                            ,
Total knpotai (Oc                              270       420       687       89O 40
tpoi tpdceIndw(1987s100)                                  es e s   106             B      9      90   91 n  93  94  0s
Import puicenkex(1967s1C0)                      43        55        tt7       ..                  DExporte  sUports
Tamsotfrgdse(1987s100)                         150       120         91
CALANCE f PAYMENSm
1375     IN         13ff4    1N
(mione USS)                                                                            Current aocount balane to GOP  M%)
Expots o goods 9ni  sae                                                      701
lmptortsogoods n sereloes                        .                1,05i                0   o s    9         2
Resourcebace                                     ..        .       .383     -291       2         0
Neti ncme                                                           -73      -85u                        ll
Notcuanfntanstfers                               .         ..      20e        7       ..          l    ii
Cwrent acount balance,                                                                -8            jj
bdietlclcapitlbunsf                            ..t..            -248      -1i7
F  inancin(g    )                                ..       ..       142       117
Chwitnifrv In nd                                                   108        80      -t.o
Re       includirg god (mii. US5)                 .        ..       88        87
Conwsion ate (loalUS                           20.3     24.3      976.7    990.8
EXTERWAL DIST and RES RCE FLOWS
1375     188        136     1S
(mUn USt   )                                                                          Composition of tS9Sdebt (mill. US$
Total de  oudig and dsbud                      774    1,466       3,108    3.242
l3RD                                          68        55         0         0                  F   G
IDA                                            0       117       773       847                 82  In             B
Totaldobtservs                                  39        72         No      181                                   847
lBRD                                           8         8         0         0
IDA                                            0         1         8 a
Conpolon of not reurce flows                                                                                          c
Olt  grants                                    3        d        1         235            E                         94
Oflcail credntt                               54        48       129        70           1427
Prjftacredjo                                   4        18        -9       -15
Forgn diretn W_va                              0         1        30        35                                 D
piolbequtRy                                    0        0          0         0                                ae
Wotkd Sa  prgrm
Comw _tme                                     21       33         48        43       A-liRD E-- BBrRI
D        _sbursemants                          0       22         93        5        8 - iDA    D- Ottnrutiatral  F -Private
cipOlNrpayenlt                                 2         5         2    -  2         C -IMAF                     G - Sort-term
Nettlows                                      -2        17        61        57
Intee papnt                                    6         4         6         8
No aansfet                                    -8        12        56       S5
World      met Iicts CO -ROlf, Word aic February 19i7



37
Attachment II
Main Economic Indicators
Table 4: Guinea Social Indicators
Latest sIngIe Year           Same reglonhlncome crouD
Sub-
Sahwran           Low.
1970.75     198045      199035            Africa        Income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)           42          5.0         6.8            583.4         3,179.9
Growth rate (% annual aveoe)                  1.4         2.6         2.6              2.8             1 .
Urban population (% of population)             16.3        22.3        29.              31.1           28.6
Total fertflity rate (births per woman)         6.0         6.2         8.5              5.7            3.2
POVERTY
(% of popula8on)
Natonal headcount index
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNP per capita (USS)                                                    550             490             430
Consumer price index (1990=100)
Food price index (1990-100)                                             214
INCOMEtCONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                                         3.0
Highest quintle                                                        50.2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
(% of GDP)
Health                                                                0.9
Educaffon                                                              1.8
Social security and welfare
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% ftage group)
Total                                                      27          40
Male                                                     36
Female                                                   18
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                        14.0        19.8         49.0            47.0            53.0
Urban                                      68.0        91.0         78.0
Rural                                                  20.0         51.0
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                    44          69               60             77
OPT                                                         4          73               58             80
Child malnutriton (% under 5 years)                          23          18                              42
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                          37          40          44               52             63
Male                                         37          40          44               51             62
Female                                       38          41          45               54             64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)             177         157         128               92             69
Under 5 (per thousand live births)                                    220              157            104
Adult :1549)
Male (per 1000 population)                                          498              433            244
Female (per 1,000 population)                                       497              359            211
Maternal (per 1 00.000 live births)                                   880
World Development Indicators CD-ROMJ World Bank February 1997



38                                     Aftachment HI
Status of Bank Group Operations
Table 1: IBRD/IDA Lending Program FY 1995-2001
Past                 Current               Planned'
Category                             1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000      2001
Commitments (US$m)                      65.5      53.8       25.0       70.0       95.0     110.0        0.0
Sector (/O)b
Agriculture                             0.0      65.1        0.0        0.0      21.1        0.0        0.0
Education                              64.9      12.3        0.0        0.0        0.0      54.5        0.0
Finance                                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      36.4        0.0
Mining                                  0.0      22.7        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Multisector                           35.1        0.0        0.0      100.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Popultn, Hlth & Nutn                    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       15.8       0.0        0.0
Public Sector Mgmt.                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       26.3       9.1        0.0
Urban Development                       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       36.8       0.0        0.0
Water Supply & Santn                    0.0       0.0      100.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
TOTAL                                  100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Lending instrument (%)
Adjustment loansc                      35.1       0.0        0.0      100.0        0.0      36.4        0.0
Specific investment loans and others  64.9      100.0      100.0        0.0      100.0      63.6        0.0
TOTAL                                  100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Disbursements (US$m)
Adjustment loanse                      10.4        1.4        .5        9.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
Specific investment loans and others   57.4      46.6       56.1       15.4       24.3      26.3       13.9
Repayments (US$m)                        2.3       3.2        3.9        1.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Interest (US$m)                          5.7       6.3        6.7        1.4        0.0       0.0        0.0
Ranges that reflect the base-case (i.e., most likely) Scenario. for IDA countries, planned commitments are not presented by FY but as a
three-year-total range; the figures are shown in brackets. A footnote indicates if the pattern of IDA lending has unusual characteristics
(e.g., a high degree of frontloading, backloading, or lumpiness). For blend countries, planned IBRD and IDA commitments are presented
for each year as a combined total.
b For future lending, rounded to the nearest 0 or 5%. To convey the thrust of country strategy more clearly, staff may aggregate sectors.
Structural adjustment loans, sector adjustment loans, and debt service reduction loans.



39                         Attachment III
Status of Bank Group Operations
Table 2: IFC and MIGA Programs, FY 1995-1998
Past
Category                      1995          1996         1997          1998
IFC approvals (US$m)E                       0.00         0.00          0.00          .20
Sector (%)
0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Food & Agro-Business                        0.00         0.00          0.00        100.00
TOTAL                                  100.00        100.00        100.00       100.00
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                  0.00          0.00         0.00        100.00
Equity                                 0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
Quasi-Equity b                         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
Other                                  0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
TOTAL                                     100.00        100.00       100.00        100.00
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                      0.00         0.00          8.35          8.35
MIGA commitments (US$m)                     0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
'Excludes AEF projects.
bIncludes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



40                                                                       Attachment III
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
Table 3: IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 43
AcQUV Lo"an
GN-PE-1075    IDAN0170       1997   GOVERNMENT                        THIRD WATER SUPPLY                 0.00      25.00             0.00         24.81        0.00       0.00
GN-PE-1077    IDA28740      1996   GOVERNMENT                         MIN SECT INV PROMOT                0.00      12.20             0.00          8.88        9.63       0.00
GN-PE-1081    IDA28390      1996   GOVERNMENT                         AGRIC SERVICES                     0.00      35.00             0.00         26.30       28.69       0.00
GN-PE-1090    IDA27870       1996   GOVERNMENT                        HIGHER EDUCATION MAN               0.00        6.60            0.00          5.11        5.47       5.48
GN-PE-l078    IDA26530       1995   GOVEN9mE4T                        PIlUANCIAL SECTOR                  0.00      23.00             0.00          1.95        1.38       0.00
GN-PE-1087    IDA27190      1995   GOVERNMENT                         EQUITY AND SCHOOL IM               0.00      42.50             0.00         30.72       33.86       0.00
GN-PE-1070    IDA25740       1994   GOVERNMENT                        HEALTH/NUT.SCTR.                   0.00      24.60             0.00         17.11       17.46      17.44
GN-PE-1043    IDA24160       1993   GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA              POWER II                           0.00      50.00             0.00         11.29        9.73       9.68
GN-PE-1068    IDA24070       1993   GOVT OF GUINEA                    AGR.EXPORT PROMOTION               0.00      20.80             0.00         12.93       12.53       0.00
GN-PE-1059    IDA21120       1990   GOVT OP GUINEA                    SECOND URBAN                       0.00      57.00             0.00         10.17        6.44       0.00
Total                                                                                                    0.00     296.70             0.00        149.27      125.19      32.60
Active TLoans        Closed Loan             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 146.52              809.53               956.05
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               90.01               90.01
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 296.70              674.23               970.93
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              149.27                 1.21              150.48
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



41                                        Attachment III
Status of Bank Group Operations
Table 4: Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company           Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1988                  Aurifere                 0.00    3.00    4.59    0.00    0.00    3.00    4.59    0.00
1993                  SGHI                     2.82     .56     .22    0.00    2.82      .56     .22    0.00
1994                  Ciments Guinee           .90    0.00    0.00    0.00       .90    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    3.72    3.56    4.81'   0.00    3.72    3.56    4.81    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
Lan   Equiity  Ousi  Part*c
1998                  SEF AGRO                  .20    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            .20    0.00    0.00    0.00



42
Attachment IV
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                  10 months
Project prepared by:                    Government with IDA assistance
First IDA mission:                     February 1997
Appraisal mission                       September 1997
Negotiations:                          November 1997
Planned Board presentation             December 16, 1997
Planned date of effectiveness          December 1997
Expected program completion             September 1998



43
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FROM
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



44
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
Dear Mr. President:
1.    Since July 1996, the Government has been making very great efforts in the areas of
institutional, budgetary, and monetary policy, with a view to reestablishing the key macroeconomic
equilibria and reopening its dialogue with your institution. Thanks to the Government's commitment to
carrying these efforts to completion, it has been possible to reopen its dialogue with the Bretton Woods
institutions, and to sign an agreement with the International Monetary Fund for an enhanced structural
adjustment facility (ESAF). The mid-term review of this facility, focusing in the first year on resource
mobilization, was termed conclusive by the Executive Board of the Fund on August 22, 1997.
2.    In parallel with the mobilization of domestic resources, the Government has also embarked on
a far-reaching reform of public expenditure, with the aim of remedying the shortfalls reported by the
World Bank following its public expenditure review.
3.    To accomplish these reforms, the Government is requesting a loan from the World Bank in the
amount of seventy million dollars (US$70,000,000).  The proceeds of this loan will be used to
support measures designed to:
*  redirect public expenditure, within the context of a medium-term  expenditure
framework (MTEF), toward education, health, roads, and rural development, all
sectors likely to benefit the country's poorest population groups;
*  consolidate budget implementation, monitoring, and supervision through a number of
measures, including the introduction of a computerized expenditure monitoring
system, simplification of budgetary procedures, and systematic auditing of the public
accounts;
*  expedite the production of an evaluation of the entire banking sector, culminating in
the preparation of a radical reform program for the sector.
I   RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND BUDGET-RELATED PROBLEMS
4.    Over the period 1991-1996, Guinea experienced annual GDP growth of 3.8 percent, a rate
slightly below the official target but still able to perrit a certain increase in per capita income. Inflation
slowed down, falling from an average of 19.4 percent in 1990 to 3.5 percent in 1996. During that
same period, however, Guinea's external situation did not improve as expected, owing to a severe
deterioration in the terms of trade and certain slippages in financial management. The sharp downward
trend in world bauxite and aluminum prices, which started in 1988, resulted in a marked contraction of
both export and tax revenues, but no corrective action was taken to remedy this situation. Government
revenues from the mining sector dropped by around 7.5 percentage points of GDP over the period
1991-1996, leading to reductions in overall budget resources and the primary budget surplus of 5
points and one point, respectively. This deterioration in the public finances was reflected in an external
current account deficit (excluding official transfers), which increased by one percentage point to reach
9 percent of GDP in 1995 before falling back to 8 percent in 1996. It also caused a decline in net



45
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
official exchange reserves, which represented no more than the equivalent of about two months of
imports at end 1996.
5.    This contraction of resources has led to many problems in the area of pubic expenditure
management. For instance:
*  the budgetary adjustment took place almost entirely to the detriment of investment
expenditure, which fell from 12.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to 7.4 percent in 1996;
*  resource contraction has led to a "recurrent-cost crisis," manifested by a drop in the share
of operating and maintenance expenses in the current budget;
* in the breakdown of operating expenses, the social sector receives only a very small
allocation;
*  although the allocation to agriculture is quite large, the efficiency of investment expenditure
and programs in the sector remains low.
(GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES FOR THE PERIOD 1997-1999
6.    The Government's objectives and policies for the period 1997-1999 are contained in the
document Guinee Vision 2010 and in the policy framework paper (PFP) developed by the Government
in collaboration with the World Bank and the IMF.
7.    The macroeconomic objectives set for the period 1997-1999 are the following:
*  achieve minimum growth real GDP growth of 5 per cent per annum;
3  limit inflation to 4 percent per annum;
*  reduce the external current account deficit to 6 percent of GDP in order to facilitate
replenishment of gross official reserves by the equivalent of 3.5 months by end 1999;
*  raise domestic savings from 6 percent of GDP in 1996 to around 9 percent in 1999.
Domestic savings should to a large extent come from the Government through
improved collection of budget resources, which should cover:
-     an increase in priority public expenditure;
-     gradual elimination of both extemal and domestic arrears;
* a lessening of the Government's dependence on external assistance;
* an increase in the primary balance from 1.6 percent of GDP in 1996 to 4 percent in
1999. And lastly, non-mining revenues should increase from around 8 percent of
GDP in 1996 to approximately 10.5 percent in 1999;
* the flexible exchange policy will be continued, with strict adherence to the tax and
monetary objectives of the program covered by the ESAF. This should enable the
exchange rate to stabilize at a level at which the Guinean economy can become more
competitive;



46
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
* in order to create an environment favorable to private sector development, the
Government has undertaken to overhaul the judicial system not only through
structural reforms but also by introducing programs to train judges, members of the
legal profession, and representatives of the law.
HI PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM PROGRAM
8.    The proposed reforms comprise two major components: (i) the first covers the restructuring of
public expenditure in four sectors identified by the Government as priority areas (education, health,
rural development, road maintenance). These four priority sectors, which encompass seven ministries,
will, at the beginning of fiscal 1998, adopt a medium-term expenditure framework, as described below;
(ii) the second component is intended to strengthen budget implementation and supervision through
introduction of a computerized public finance monitoring system, stricter application of the regulatory
fiamework, particularly of those regulations that relate to financial supervision and government
contracts, and standardization and simplification of budgetary procedures.
1.    Restructuring of public expenditure
9.    The Government has decided to redirect its expenditure on the basis of its strategic priorities.
This will come about through: (i) establishment of a medium-term expenditure framework enabling
priority ministries to rank their needs in order of importance; and (ii) establishment by the central
ministries of clear and precise rules for allocating budget resources.
10.   Adoption of the medium-term expenditure framework, which will be introduced in four priority
sectors in 1998, was preceded by an in-depth study involving estimates of sector policy costs over a
three-year period. These costs reflect priority actions under the sector policies and correspond to
resource availability as demonstrated by realistic macroeconomic revenue projections. The medium-
term expenditure review will also make it possible to:
*   set up the database needed to ensure that resources are allocated more prudently
among the sectors and reflect the Government's list of priorities;
*   set up a database recording the real costs of the various services in each sector,
thereby facilitating better resource allocation within the individual sectors; and
*  improve forecasting of the financial needs of the priority ministries.
11.   On the basis of experience gained in the four priority sectors, the other ministries will initiate
preparatory studies for covering all sectors under the medium-term expenditure framework by fiscal
year 2000.
12.   The following actions have already been taken:
* setting up of a macroeconomic framework based on realistic resource projections for
the period 1998-2000;



47
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
*  establishment for each of the four priority sectors, work programs sectors for the
period 1998-2000 based on the objectives assigned to each sector, cost estimates, and
consultations with beneficiaries;
*  definition of sectoral  budgetary allocations for fiscal 1998 under the overall
macroeconomic framework designed jointly with the 1MF;
*  establishment of performance indicators by which to monitor the efficiency of priority
sectors, and setting up of an ex-post evaluation system to assess the impact of public
spending; and
*  creation of a national MTEF steering committee to oversee effective programming in
response to the needs expressed and to ensure that all selective decisions by the cash
management committee (Comite de Tresorerie) reflect the priorities.
13.   To implement the medium-term expenditure framework within the context of the fiscal 1998
budget, the Government has decided to increase the budget resources for the four priority sectors. It
has pledged to allocate a larger share of the nonwage operating budget to those sectors. Among the
four sectors, expenses earmarked for education will increase rapidly, with the aim of improving primary
school enrollment rates. A performance monitoring indicator for disbursement of the funds allocated
to the sectors has been defined. These amounts will be calculated by reference to the quarterly needs
reported by the sectors and on the basis of realistic resource projections.
2.    Improved budget implementation and monitoring
14.   In parallel with the restructuring of expenditure using the medium-term  expenditure
framework, the Government has introduced a number of measures to: (i) strengthen budget
monitoring and oversight; (ii) strengthen the regulatory framework governing the processing of public
expenditure; and (iii) standardize and simplify budgetary procedures. The Government has already
adopted a number of measures, of which the most important are as follows:
*  Strengthened monitoring of budget implementation through a computerized public
finance monitoring system. This reinforcement represents one of the major stages in
the new budget management system, and will become effective on January 1, 1998.
The spending cycle will be shorter and more transparent. Also, in the future, no
expenditure will be committed outside that system and expenditure processing will
follow a set timetable. Before the end of 1997, the new computerized monitoring
system will, on a monthly basis, provide for each line ministry, the status of budget
implementation (commitment, validation, authorization, payment) which will be
published and disseminated widely. The Government will continue to identify new
measures designed to improve budget implementation by the line ministries and will
complete the computerized monitoring system by extending it to Treasury Operations
(payments) and to the production of the status of Government financial operations
(TOFE).
*  The public accounts (including Treasury accounts) are currently being audited by a
team of experts, with the aim of producing audited accounts (Loi de Reglement) for
the 1996 budget by December 1, 1997, the first time such step has been taken in



48
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
Guinea. The first stage will consist of reconciling the figures appearing in the
administrative accounts and the management accounts. The second stage will consist
of a more comprehensive audits of budget implementation for all previous years
culminating in the submission of a global audited accounts for the period ending
December 1997 by June 1998, with the aim of clearing all the accounts and starting
out again on a sound footing. In the future, audited accounts will be available within
the six months following the close of a fiscal year.
*  A Directorate of Financial Oversight (Direction du Contr6le Financier) has been set
up, with responsibility for ex-ante supervision of expenditure commitments. This
measure was supplemented by the establishment of DAAFs (Divisions of
Administrative and Financial Affairs) in all ministries.
*  A new procurement code has recently been adopted. As a result:
(i)   all government expenditure in excess of the regulatory ceiling shall be
submitted for written approval by the Procurement Department;
(ii)  in September, 1997, the Government began publishing a bi-weekly
procurement bulletin giving detailed information on the specifications for
upcoming government contracts, iisting contracts that have already been
awarded, and showing the monthly statements for each line ministry. To assist
with the enforcement of the new regulations, the Government has already
informed its suppliers that their contracts could be invalidated if they fail to
observe the official procurement procedures.
*  A new nomenclature has been established for the 1998 budget, designed to facilitate
functional and economic expenditure analysis.
IV SECTOR POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
15.   The budgetary reform program will be rigorously enforced in the sectors adopting the medium-
term expenditure review. To this end, precise objectives, policies, strategies, and performance
indicators reflecting the country's development concerns have been established for those sectors.
1.    Education
16.   Within the framework of its new statement of education policy, the Government of the
Republic of Guinea aims to enhance the quality of training and performance of both students and
teachers throughout the different cycles of education (primary, secondary, advanced, and vocational).
17.   In order to undertake these reforns successfully, the Guinean authorities have set the following
objectives:
* increase the rate of school enrollment (70 percent of the gross enrollment rate in the
first year);



49
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
*   promote the training and upgrading of supervisory and management staff;
*   develop infrastructure, physical facilities, and documentary resot s;
*   provide training for trainers;
*   strengthen the autonomy of higher education establishments and have them introduce
scientific research programs;
*   provide a context in which young people can acquire both theoretical and practical
knowledge, social skills, and tools for growth; and
*   raise the literacy rate from 31 percent to 47 percent.
18.   Despite the significant results obtained over the past few years, Guinea!s entire education
system still suffers from certain constraints, such as: (i) inadequate and obsolescent basic infiastructure
(facilities, electricity supply, etc.); (ii) quantitative and qualitative inadequacy of teaching staff; (iii)
increased demand for education resulting from a high population growth rate.
19.   To attain the objectives set, the following strategies are planned:  (i) formulate a clear
development policy for the sector; (ii) build, rehabilitate, and fit out classrooms, libraries, laboratories,
and workshops; (iii) hire and train new teachers; (iv) ensure a reliable supply of textbooks; (v) promote
a high quality of public and private education; (vi) train trainers; (vii) refocus programs of education
and research topics or introduce new ones in response to the requirements of development; and (viii)
strengthen functional and skills-enhancing literacy activities.
20.   The performance indicators to be used to monitor the sector's development include: number of
classrooms, laboratories, and workshops built, rehabilitated, and fitted out at each educational level;
numbers of teaching staff recruited and trained, and numbers of trainers trained at each educational
level; rate of increase in performance testing of pupils, students, and teachers; reduction of repeater and
dropout rates; number of new manuals and textbooks purchased; number of pnrvate schools created;
rate of functional literacy achieved.
2.    Health
21.   The Government has started to implement a health policy designed to guarantee public access
to quality basic health care at a reasonable and affordable cost through primary health care, control of
the diseases assigned high priority (malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, HIV/AIDS), and the supply and
distribution of generic essential drugs.
22.   The basic objectives of this policy are as follows: (i) raise the vaccination rate from 62 percent
to 95 percent by the year 2010; (ii) identify 80 percent of cases of endemic disease; (iii) ensure care and
treatment for 85 percent of cases of high-priority disease; (iv) increase the number of people with
access to potable water supply (95 percent of the urban population and 80 percent of rural dwellers)
and to health care and generic essential drugs.
23.   On the constraints side, future projections should take account of the following aspects: (i)
inadequate decentralization and deconcentration of health care personnel and the health system; (ii)



50
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
inadequacy of the services offered to the public; (1ii) the very small role played by the private sector,
(iv) the lack of relevant skills and motivation, and poor human resource management.
24.   To achieve the above objectives, the Government plans to adopt the following strategies: (a)
decentralize and deconcentrate the health system and its personnel with a view to strengthening health
coverage within the country; (b) strengthen efforts to control disease; improve the supply and
distribution to the public of generic essential drugs; and (d) improve reproductive health.
25.   To improve monitoring of the results, the following performance indicators are proposed:
proportion of children with a completed vaccination profile; proportion of cases of high priority
diseases identified and the extent of epidemics; proportion of the population with access to facilities
and water supply; numbers of staff and persons trained; and numbers of health centers created,
rehabilitated, and maintained.
3.    Public works
26.   Since July 1996, the Government has been holding discussions on the roads policy, of which
the underlying principle is to meet transportation requirements, in terms of both passengers and goods,
at the lowest possible cost to the public.
27.   The basic objectives of this policy are to: (i) offer service of acceptable quality; (ii) promote
economic activities by providing access to new areas; and (iii) ensure the mobility of persons and goods
under the requisite conditions of safety and comfort.
28.   However, the achievement of these objectives is subject to certain constraints, namely: (i)
heavy rainfall and abundant plant cover; (ii) the country's physical relief and the variety of soils; (iii)
limited knowledge of local road-building materials and of new road technologies; (iv) inefficiency of
the mechanism for promoting, supervising, and monitoring SMEs; (v) weakness of the countrys
management capacities in this sector.
29.   With a view to overcoming these constraints, the Government intends to implement the
following strategies: (a) take action to increase knowledge of the sector, (b) introduce a consistent
roads doctrine based on geotechnical research and on the promotion, supervision, and closer
monitoring of SMEs; (c) strengthen the country's management capacity in this sector; and (d) make a
financially autonomous road agency funded by road users' fees which will be responsible for road
maintenance.
30.   Following are some of the performance indicators to be used: (1) number and percentage of
areas having a reliable and affordable public transportation network; (2) percentage of discount for the
transportation of agricultural produce; (3) rate of increase in road traffic; (4) rate of access to
infrastructures; (5) number of production, consumption, and marketing areas made accessible; (6)
number of km of roads maintained, improved, and created; and (7) number of SMEs in the sector,
number and cost of works subcontracted to local SMEs.



51
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
4.    Rural development
31.   Rural development is regarded as one of the highest priorities of the Govenmment's economic
policy over the period 1997-1999.
32.   The sector employs just over three fourths of the country's working population, and is based
essentially on the three subsectors of agriculture, livestock, and fisheries.
33.   The policies, objectives, and strategies of rural sector development are described in the
Agricultural Development Policy Letter (LPDA) adopted by the Government in 1991 and updated in
1997 (LPDA2).
34.   As stated in that letter, government policy is designed to ensure food security for the country's
population, provide leadership for rural activities, and promote the creation of groups and associations
in the sector within the framework of self-supported and sustainable economic and social development.
35.   Despite the country's important resource, the sector suffers from  a number of major
constraints; (i) weakness of basic infrastructure; (ii) inaccessibility of production and marketing areas;
(iii) weakness and small numbers of rural groups and associations; (iv) persistence of sociocultural
practices; (iv) constraints of an institutional, legal, and regulatory nature such as a clear definition of the
state and the need to ensure adequacy between key functions of the Government and the size and
distribution of civil servants worldng in agriculture.
36.   The strategies selected are designed to achieve: (i) a continued food security policy through
support for heightened productivity; (ii) particular support for research in the different subsectors
(agriculture, fisheries, livestock, forestry) and for rural credit for those subsectors, and intensified
support for natural resource surveillance and protection (agriculture, fisheries, livestock, forestry); and
(iii) the promotion and provision of leadership for rural groups and associations.
37.   As a means of monitoring the sector's development, the following performance indicators have
been selected: (a) increase in cultivated areas; (b) increase in yield per hectare; (c) coverage of the
people's food needs (rice, other food crops, tubers, fish, milk, meat, eggs, etc.; (c) number of km of
tracks opened up; (d) number of structures installed; (e) number of hectares irrigated; (f) number of
areas reforested; (g) number of groups and associations created and provided with leadership; (h)
number of new companies in the fisheries sector; and (i) amount of the fishery sector's contribution to
the public treasury in terns of sales of fishing licenses, taxes, fines, transshipments, etc.
CONCLUSION
38.   Despite the inadequate performance of the essential human and technical resources, the
Government is implementing a true policy of participatory and decentralized development based on the
orientations and choices of civil society, which are expected to be the subject of a true national
consensus.



52
Attachment V
Letter of Development Policy
39.   The positive results achieved have encouraged the Government to continue its efforts of
stabilization and adjustment by working to achieve the macroeconomic objectives and budget
implementation procedures selected for the period 1997-1999.
40.   It will strengthen the ongoing dialogue with the World Bank. It will also report to the Bank on
progress made. It is convinced that the policies set out will facilitate the achievement of the objectives
it has set. It will take any additional measures that may prove necessary to accomplish this purpose.
41.   Accept, mr. President, the assurances of our highest consideration.
Conalay, October 16, 1997
Elhadj Mamadou Cellou DIALLO



53                                                          Attachment VI
ANNEX B: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
i: ::-:::::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-:-:       .:........   ....     ... ..   .-:- ..:              :-.-  :-:.:.:.   -:-::::..:::::::
. ...... ...                                              ::-J~~~~~IMING!:~
.,.-,,,,+ ~~~~~~~..  ,"':.'.,  "'''' ''''''-''''''''""::'"'... ..                               ............ .
.: : .... :. :.: ,- ......... ............. . .. ..... .   ..........   ...                           ...... -   .   : , ,,  .....  :. , ,,,:::.:  ......     
OBJECTIVES  STRA EGIES                                      ACTIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NS  S....TATU
RSRCUI;:'BCEPNI E ;TOA    P                                                  T  S
.  :-. :  - ,,,:,   .   :::,:. , ,   .. ..  - ,,.,,    ,.  .:. .,     ............ ... ......             .. --  .,  
Adopt strategic      *   Develop a medium-term    *   Complete a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEFr) for four
expenditure               expenditure framework          priority sectors (education, health, rural development, and road
prioritization            based on national and          maintenance) consisting of:
sectoral policy priorities         *   sectoral spending programs/targets for 1998-2000 based on
and aggregate fiscal                   standard cost analysis and consultations with
discipline                             beneficiaries/civil society;
* sectoral financial envelopes and budget allocations for 1998
based on realistic macroeconomic projections; and
* Cabinet approval of sectoral programs and draft budget for
1998                                                          Done
* Ensure that the Public Investment Program (PIP) is consistent with
the MTEF in the four priority areas                                    Done
*   Increase resource          *   Increase non-wage recurrent budget allocations to the four priority    Dn
allocations to priority        sectors for 1998 (from 25% to 30%/)                                    Dn
sectors                   *   Agree on disbursement rates in four sectors for 1998                    Done
*   The Governmnent will have reached effective disbursements of at least
GNF 3.8 billion for education, GNF 2 billion each for public health
and road maintenance, and GNF 635 million for rural development        scn  rnh
_____________  ___________________         during the first semester of FY98 (January-June_1998)                  Scn  rnh
Implement result-    Develop system of ex-post       *   Develop selected performance indicators for the four priority areas    Done
oriented             evaluation of outcomes          *   Design an ex-post evaluation system of real outcomes                   Done
expenditure system                                   *   Adopt a monitoring system (to be reviewed on a monthly basis) of
____________   _________________           budget implementation (including disbursement rates)  _Done



54                                                          Attachment VI
E iER:: i...................i..                                                                                               .  EE. EEiEi-i,i, i 1 :- E. iEEEEE. i-:EEE   -   E-E.:...Ei.. i  i:iR   ......
...      '.'.'.'.''.'  .''S- .g-g.-.'S '-.. ...                                                       ..'.   .':'.0........' ,,E0, , 004Xg :0-,-S
Ensure aggregate     *   Strengthen svstems for    *   Produce macroeconomic forecasts (revenue, expenditures, and sectoral
fiscal discipline        macroeconomic                   allocations) for 1998-2000 and ensure consistency with 1998 budget
forecasting                    and IMF program criteria                                               Done
* Design system of budget allocation to take into account potential
fragility on revenue front (differentiated adjustment between priority
and non-priority sectors in case of fiscal revenue shortfalls)         Done
* Produce format for quarterly projections of resource needs based on
overall budget allocations by priority ministries                      Done
* Produce format to use for overall cash flow (Plan de tresorerie)
_____________________      projections by the Ministry of Finance                                 Done
Ensure the           .   Improve projections of    *   Produce quarterly projections of financing requirements (non-wage
availability of          their financing needs           recurrent expenditures and investments financed from the national
resources to              and ensure effective           budget) for the priority sectors, taking into account the seasonal nature  On-going
priority sectors          disbursement through           of expenditures
regular monitoring         *   Develop these projections, on an experimental basis, before the
beginning of fiscal year 1998                                          End-December
*   Fine-tune the functions and tasks to be performed by the steering
committees which have been created in the priority ministries          End-December
*   Ensure continuing training for the budget officers of the priority
.                     ~~~~~~ministries on the new procedures                                  Ongoing
*   In case of fiscal revenue shortfalls, the national MTEF Steering
Commnittee, which had been created to oversee the implementation of
the new public expenditure management system, will review the
situation and make recommendations in line with agreed priorities      Ongoing



55                                                  Attachment VI
BJETIVS  ISS SSTRATEGIES                              0|-  W= ACTIONS                                       I;   S  0    0SIMING/|
. . ... . ....                                  ... .   .. ..   .   . . .
___________I   I________________________________________                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATUS.......
ITRENGTHENIN( BUDGET MPEMENTTINOAMOITRN
Strengthen        *  Strengthen regulatory   *  Create a separate Financial Control Department in the Ministry of  Done
budgetary control     framework that governs     Finance
framework             budget implementation    *  Complete staffing and training for Financial Control Department  End-December
*  Strengthen budget and finance staff in line ministries (in the four
priority areas) through new appointment and training         Done
Strengthen regulatory  *  Adopt and implement new procurement code                      Done
framework that governs   *  Publish an official gazette on procurement offers and contracts  Done
Government             *  Publish monthly information on Government purchases by
procurement               procurement (for each line ministry)                          Done
*  Strictly enforce new Government procurement code (all spending
exceeding the threshold level prescribed in the Procurement Code will
be rejected if not processed through tenders) written approval of
Procurement Department)                                      Done
.  Implement a new computerized system to monitor procurement    Done
Strengthen monitoring    *  Adopt computerized monitoring system of budget implementation
of budget                 within Ministry of Finance                                    Done
implementation         *  Produce monthly data on budget implementation for each line
(financial information    ministry (commitments, verifications, paymnent orders, payments)  Done
system)                *  Extend the computerized monitoring system to cover treasury
operations                                                   End- December
*  Ensure reconciliation between commitments and Treasury accounting   End-March 1998
*  Undertake audit of public accounts (including Treasury accounts) as
of end-1996                                                  Done
*  Produce actual (realized) expenditures for budget year 1996   End-December
*  Produce full audits of all Government expenditures ending December
1997                                                         Second tranche
*  Adopt a plan to reorganize the Department of the Treasury     Second tranche



56                                                 Attachment VI
OBETIE   I|    STRiATEGIES                                             ACiON                               ( t i    b :g   TIMING
Standardize and   e  Improve and standardize  *  Finalize review of budgetary classification for recurrent and
simplifiy budgetary   budgetary classification  investment budgets                                           Done
processes                                    *  Adopt revised budgetary classification for budget year 1998  Done
*Simplify budgetary     .  Adopt simplified budgetary procedures for budget year 1998   Done
procedures            *  Implement new and simplified budgetary procedures for the
processing of expenditures                                  Second tranche
Improve           *  Ensure counterpart      *  Produce quarterly projections of counterpart funding requirements for
implementation of     funding                   all donor-assisted projects by line ministries and project directors
donor-financed                                  under the coordination of the Public Investment Department (DNLP)
projects                                        of the Ministry of Finance                                   End-December
. Automatically provision for the counterpart funding requirements in
the computerized monitoring system (for all line ministries)  End-December
*  In case of late or insufficient funding, the national MvTEF Steering
Comnmittee, which will meet on a monthly basis, will initiate remedial
actions by the Ministry of Finance and the Cash Flow Committee  Ongoing
............ ... .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



57                                                               Attachment VI
.OEBJECTIVES|: : 1    SAEE                            I                                  ACTIONS                                              TIIMEI-GI
I  I___________________________________ STATUS
_ ~~~~~~.          ... . .       .-  .   .  -,.... . . ..........  . . . ........ . ..--: - . .  ...... ........... .  . . ..     ........ . ..... 
: :. : - : - :: .- - :-:: - :-: ..........  .....:::.:::. ..  :   .  -.: .  :.                         :....... ........
:.-.: .......AL... REF  RMS                                             :RTSR ER                                 ...  ....  . ..... E  S.E          . -:  ......R
...:::---:.....:.:.   ::.::--....-. ,,--.::.::                                                 .-. :::-,,-....
Improve efficiency    *   Develop a result-              *   Design a set of performance benchmarks of the effectiveness of service
in the provision of         oriented, performance-           delivery                                                                     September 1998
public service              based system for the
civil service linked to
service delivery
standards



58                                                Attachment VI
Increase primary    *  Increase recruitment of   *  Recruit a minimum of 1,600 additional teachers before beginning of
school enrollment    pnimary school teachers    school year 97-98                                           Done
(from 29%/ in                               *  Provide sufficient funds in 1998 budget to recruit a minimum of 1600
1989/90 to 60% in                              additional teachers before beginning of school year 98-99   Done
1999/2000)                                  *  Approve the recruitment of a minimum of 1600 new primary school
teachers for 1998-99 school year                            Second tranche
*Provide sufficient funding for pedagogic materials (GNF 5000 and
. .                     ~~~~~~GNF 8000 pr primy level and secondy level student, pro-ratedn    Second tranche
Improve the quality  *  Ensure the availability of *  Accelerate budget implementation for FY97 to raise disbursement of
and coverage of      non-wage recurrent         non-wage recurrent expenditures to at least of GNF 3 billion for 1997   Done
health services      expenditures in the
budget
*Ensure the distribution    *  Discuss with IDA on all investment projects (new or rehabilitation) in
of expenditures between   tertiary health care                                        Done
the various levels of
_______________ health care___________________________________



59                                                                                        Attachment VI
... .. ,, ...... .,,, ,,,,., ,...... ....,,,....               .        .       .  .-  ... -.:. :
,, ~~~~......       --....  :.:: ..  :..-::: .............- .                                  :..                                          ..... ... ,:...    . 
' ' :    ';' ;.,   ...  ,,,   :' :;;   ,".--:.         ,;',;''''"      ''  . ''                     ''''''''  ''';''';,''''''''''.''','''''
OBJECTIVES            STRATEGIES..... .....ACTIONS                                                                                                                                  TIMING!
, ,..,,,.. ., .... .. .. ... ,............             .      .:                                                         - -     , ,,,,,   , .,  .. I...I.... I  .... I. . ................  .... -us: ,  ,,,,, , , ,                 , , .. .... .
......._                        _  _  _  _     _    _  _._..._ _...._ _....._                                           _._ _              .._ ...._            _S            T  A  T   U
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:.:::.-..... ., -.                            ,   ,: .....                                                                                    .....    ......,--,,.,,,,,,,,, ......... ...   ....   .   .   . ....... ..... 
..'. -.' ' ' ' '.  ' '  .  '    . :'  '.  '',    .',       ' -  ..'.'.'.'.'..  ...''.''...':::..::..:.
':':::::::-.-:,:':.:.:  ::..........   .....   ''. '.:.. ':',-                                                 , ...  ...... .. ..                    ,.,  -: ....::.-
AGRC.TUALPOICESAND PRIORITIES
Increase the                    *   Reorganize and                             *   Submit a reorganization plan and timetable acceptable to IDA aimed
Government's                           streamline the National                        at:
capacity for policy                    Agriculture Department                               *   Redefining the key functions of the Ministry of Agriculture
formulation and                        (DNA)                                                       (MAEF)                                                                                       Second tranche
implementation                                                                              *  Proceed with the analysis of human resources need to
undertake the aforementioned functions                                                        Second tranche
......... .. ,. , , . -. ' ' .::,  ' '' .  '. .''' ' :. :.:.:,::.............         ,  ,  :     ,  '  : '  ' .'....'':'..:.:'..''                                     :.'.::.:.,,,
ROADS POLIC ESA ND PRIORITIES
- ~~~~..... ..    ...           ........    ... .   .   ..-....   .....  -...   ....   .               -.                                                                     ..   --,,,:.......::   .   :. . . 
Expand and                       *  Ensure routine                             *   Accelerate budget implementation for FY97 to raise effective
improve the quality                    maintenance of the road                        disbursement to the Road Fund to at least GNF 5 billion by end-1997    Underway
of road network                        network                                 *   Proceed with the analysis of the possible forms of road users' charges   Early 1998
*   Submit a program of actions and timetable acceptable to IDA for the
creation of a financially autonomous Road Agency responsible for
road maintenance                                                                                          Second tranche






, S    E   N EK A  L'
-------                                                          t__j_ +T   S 4   -    --
,Koundcarao-      3J- -
V                              SN                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A L I
G  YSl"N  E A                                                                                                                                    N w <                .<yagassol                JA  I,
malN
-12,.,-.j-    BIBISSAU                                .                  .Mai*                                                                      J                                             f (         2
~~~*~~~~.0  j                                     Th  ~~~~~~~~~~12'-
-  ~~~~~~                                       K~~oubioiN,,a
Lab6                                 Dinguiroye                       fin. fkinso :'$ _ *Siguirif
< lO ,         Kindia<3 Xc                              4                 fFaronPita                    Niandakoro1
'~oor,:>r\g  '   .6
Ni              MAURITANI             Ti ,                    *    NATONACAPTA                                                           /9                      I  -- Bela. ,
r                                                                                                                        r q   2  19    ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS  flf  0   M+ta   j    \  5    
F        DMImou                                                                                       ,
Tandon                                                                          nk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.anif
Kindia aenl
Dubr6ka                                                                                             OMI      a                                                        I O
Conokry  /         Cyl
OCEAN  ly                                                                                ougou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hrun
14,                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
MAURITANfA                          ~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                  '                       el
  ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS                  Ghkdu             ~          t 
SENEGAL                                                 0     PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                               -O
THE                              MALI0
GUI                     f                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES5                                                                                                 0
BISSA  '~~~~~        BURKINA ~~~ADMINISTRATIVE REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                            -C T  
G L)  1 ,6            TAsO                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 
Conakry~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2TA0                                                                       Lola~
SIERRA  EONE~'~.   0'CT                                          100                     200                                                                     /          D'I VOI RE
>                            ~~~~~~~~D'IVOIRE                            KILOMETERS                                                            *Ymo
0                                                             The boundaries, colors, deo,mi-ations and any other informationL..      RIA"
ss A T LAN TI c             EI                             shoe,,n an this mop do oat im,ply, an the part of The World Banks Group,
If    ~~~~~ ~    any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement                                                                                     N)
O' CEC AN                                                 or acceptance of such boundaries.
Gulfc,GvlOvrrs(4



