Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5798-GM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
February 28, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dalasis (D)
US$ 1.0 = D 5.2
D 1.0 - US$ 0.19
US$ 1.0 = SDR 1.11
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEAStRES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)              =      3.28  feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)      =    10.76  square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)       =    35.3   cubic feet (cu ft)
1 hectare (ha)           =      2.47  acres
1 kilometer (km)         =      0.62  mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kM2) =      0.39  square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (t)         =      2,205 pounds (lb)
I liter (l)              =      0.26  US gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      African Development Fund
EEC       European Economic Community
GPA       Gambia Port Authority
GPMB      Gambia Produce Marketing Board
GPTC      Gambia Public Transport Company
GRTA      Gambia River Transport Authority
GRTC      Gambia River Transport Company
GTTI      The Gambia Technical Training Institute
GITC      Gambia Utility Corporation
MDI       Management Development Institute
MED       Mechanical Engineering Division
MEPID     Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
MF&T      Ministry of Finance and Trade
MWC       Ministrv of Works and Communications
ODA(IUK)   Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PWD       Public Works Department
SIDA      Swedish International Development Association
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UNSO      United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
USAID     United States Agency for international Development
WAPT]1
February 1986



THE GAMBIA            F    0MCIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
c *    TABLE OF CONTENTS
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ...............................         i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......       ............................    ii
I. INTRODUCTION ...........................................         1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................         I
The Transport System ...................................         I
The Roads Subsector .....................................        4
IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector .................        7
III. THE PROJECT ............................................         8
Project Background and Objectives ......................         8
Project Description ....................................         9
The Road Maintenance Program ............................        9
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation ..........................    11
Institutional Strengthening and Training ................    12
Refinancing of PPF ........ . ............................    13
Project Cost Estimates and Financing ....................    13
Implementation and Present Status of the Project ..... ..    14
Procurement ............................................    14
Disbursements ..........................................    15
Reporting and Auditing .................................    16
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................................    17
Nature of Project Benefits .............................    17
Economic Returns and Sensitivity ........................    17
Project Risks ...........................................    18
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....... .  ..........    18
The project and this report were prepared on the basis of an appraisal
mission in January and February, 1985 by Messrs. Peter Morris (Mission
Leader, Deputy Division Chief), Rudolf Einthoven (Sr. Economist),
Mohammed Rasheed (Sr. Financial Analyst), and Steven Berkman (Training
Specialist).   Ms. Carolina Machado  (Operations Assistant)  and Farida
Khan   (Administrative   Assistant)   provided   computing   assistance.
Secretarial work was done by Ms. Susan Sing, Ms. Janine Vieira da Luz,
Ms. Marcelle Houle and Ms. Tracy McMahon.
This document has a esicted distribution and may be uud by recipients only in the perform_e
oftherofficiul dute.. Its contents may not otherwise be dickued without Wordd Bk authoriiio



ANNEXES
2-1  Banjul Port Traffic
2-2  Banjul Airport Traffic
2-3  Gambia River Traffic
2-4  Road Network Evolution
2-5  Transport Investments
2-6  Estimated Vehicle Fleet
2-7  Organization Chart of MWC
2-8  Training Institutions
2-9  MWC Budgeting. Accounting and Costing
2-10 Revenue from Road User Taxes
2-11 Fuel Consumption Statistics
2-12 Road Maintenance Recurrent Budget
3-1  Local Roads Included in the Maintenance Program
3-2  Periodic Maintenance Program
3-3 Equipment Procurement Summary
3-4  Terms of Reference for Road Maintenance Management
3-5  Terms of Reference for MED Workshop Management
3-6  Personnel Development Program for MWC and Terms of Reference
3-7  Technical Assistance for Transport Planning
3-8  Terms of Reference for Study of Domestic Construction Industry
3-9  Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
3-10 Implementation Schedule
3-11 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3-12 Unit Rates for Road Maintenance Activities
3-13 Annual Road Maintenance Targets
4    Economic Analysis
MAP: IBRD 18944
WAPT1
February 1986



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGWAY NAINTEIANCE PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN TEE PROJECT FILE
Reference                                                          WAIC
lumber                         Documnet                           Code
1. Maintenance Requiremnts and Resources for Feeder Roads
(November 1982).  ILO World Employment Programe         223.375
2. Pilot Project of Labour-b"aed Road Maintenance in The
Gmbia , I10.                                            223.376
3. Firot Highway Maintenance Project: Follow Up Road
Maintenance Study, by Lavalin International:
- Final Report, 1983 (1-3)                         223.799
- Update of Final Report, Docember 1984 (GG)       124.153
- Rehabilitation and Strangthening
South Bank Road (1 & 2)                          227.527
4. First Higbway Maintnanece Project: Road Upgrading
Study, by Henry Grace and Partners (JUne 1985):
- First Phase Methodology                          223.377
- Second Phase Design (2 volumes)                  227.820/1
5. The Feeder Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project of Roads built with the assistance of UNSO
the Gambia:  Biannual Work Programme Maintenance
Budget, UNDP/OPE (March 1985).                          223.805
6. Regularization for the Implementation of the Management
System of the Mechanical Engineering Division (MED).   223.315
7. Authorization for Parts Removal (Cannibalization) for
the Mechanical Engineering Division (MED).              223.316
8. Store Management and Organization at Kotu Workshop
Mechanical Engineering Division (NED).                  223.317
9. Preventive Maintenance Objectives for the Mechanical
Engineering Division (NED).                             223. 318
10. PWD Training Center-Review of Progress 1984, and
1985-88 Three Tear Plan.                                223.319
11. Brumen Bridge: Report on the recent visit of a
Maunsell Engineer, May 1984.                            223. 378
12. Feasibility Analyses Designated High Priority
Projects for Government of The Gambia and Kuwait
Fund, Wilbur Smith and Associates, Final Report,
April 1979.                                             223.379
13. MWC Reorganization Study, by IME Consult,
Draft Report, January 1986.                                228.397
14. Working Papers on Economic Analysis                         228.023
WAPT1
February                                                                 1986



- ii -
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of The Gambia
Credit Amount: SDR 5.3 million (US$ 5.8 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Co-Lenders:    IDA (US$5.8 million equivalent); AfDF (US$4.5 million
equivalent); EEC (US$2.0 million equivalent); UNSO
(US$0.6 million equivalent) and UNDP (US$0.7 million
equivalent).
Project
Description:   The project would support the efforts of the Ministry  of
Works and Communications (MWC) in carrying out its
four-and-one-half-year    (1986   to   mid-1990)    road
maintenance program which is comprised of the following
components:  (a) rehabilitation of part of the paved
network; (b) continuation and expansion of routine and
periodic road maintenance programs; (c) strengthening of
the organisation and management of MWC to improve the
efficiency  of  road  and  equipment  maintenance;  (d)
introduction of sound transport planning procedures; and
(e) assistance to domestic contractors to enable their
more   effective   participation   in  road  maintenance
activities.
Project
Benefits and
Risks:         The  main  benefits  of  the  proposed  project would  be
improvement in the physical condition of The Gambia's
road network and in the functional efficiency of MWC.
These two aspects are essential in the protection of
highway investments, the reduction of vehicle operating
costs, and the prevention of rising road user costs as a
result of worsening road  conditions.   Other benefits
include the positive effects on agricultural production
because of reduced transport costs. Based on the satis-
factory implementation of the First Highway Maintenance
Project (1979) and the commitment of the Government to
reorganize NWC and improve its management procedures,
there would be no major risks concerning project imple-
mentation. However, further aggravation of The Gambia's
economic situation could limit the timely availability of
the Government's contribution of funds for maintenance.



- iii -
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sumary Project Cost Estimate
- US$ Thousands -
Estimated Cost                                Local      Foreign   Total
1. Road Maintenance Program
(a) Regravelling, Resealing. Paving          367       1,570     1,937
(b) Routine Road Maintenance                 946       1,513     2.459
(c) Feeder Road Maintenance                  172         401       573
(d) Equipment and Vehicles                     0       1,748     1,748
(e) Road Maintenance and Workshop Mgmt.      160       1,430     1,590
2. Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
(a) Bund Road                                188         784       972
(b) South Bank Road                          376       '.,558    1.934
(c) Brumen Bridge                            172         748       920
3. Institutional Strengthening
(a) Planning, Studies, and Auditing           40         360       400
(b) Management and Training for MWC           39         351       390
(c) Study and Training for
Domestic Contractors                       4          36        40
(d) Equipment, Materials,
and Courses for MWC                      70         110       180
4. Repayment of PPF Advance                      55         495       550
Base Cost (February 1986)                  2,589      11,104    13,693
Physical Contingencies                        81         352       433
Price Contingencies                          487       1,789     2,276
Total Project Cost a/                      3,157      13,245    16,402
Financing Plan (Rounded)                      Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                                             580       5,220     5,800
UNSO                                            115         485       600
AfDF                                            480       4,020     4,500
EEC                                              35       1,965     2,000
UNDP                                             70         630       700
Government                                    1,877         925     2,802
Total                                         3,157      13,245    16,402
Estimated IDA Disbursements                     IDA Fiscal Year
(CTSS Millions)            FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91  FY92
Annual                  1.6    1.4    1.2    0.7   0.6   0.3
Cumulative              1.6    3.0    4.2    4.9   5.5   5.8
Economic Rate of Return
The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the project, based on
quantifiable benefits covering about 79% of overall cost, is about 382.
WAPTI
February 1986
aJ Project items are exempt from all taxes and duties except for a small
amount from local contracts for road maintenance activities.



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of The Gambia has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a follow-up project to the First Highway Maintenance Project
(Cr. 897-GM of April 1979).  The proposed project will support the
efforts of the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) in carrying
out a four-and-one-half-year (1986 to mid-1990) road maintenance and
upgrading program. In addition to routine and periodic road maintenance
operations and priority road and bridge rehabilitation, the project
supports a major institution building effort of MWC and assistance to
domestic contractors to enable their more effective participation in
road maintenance activities.
1.02      IDA's strategy in the highway sector has focussed on develop-
ing the country's road maintenance capability, while trying to ensure
that traditional priority to construction and expansion of the paved
road network is replaced by a strong emphasis in maintaining and improv-
ing the country's deteriorating road infrastructure. IDA's support of
the proposed project is crucial to consolidate these initiatives and to
assist the Government in building up sustainable road and equipment
maintenance management systems.  Furthermore, IDA's support under the
project in intensifying the policy dialogue on road maintenance
financing and investment planning for the transport sector will (a)
enable more rational use of scarce local funds, and (b) help enlist the
support of international financing agencies towards these worthwhile
objectives.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      The Gambia, with a land area of 11,300 kM2, the smallest
country in continental Africa, consists of an east-west strip of mainly
flat terrain 30-50 km wide, etending some 350 km inland along the
shores of the Gambia river. The country is surrounded by Senegal on the
North, East and South and by the Atlantic Ocean on the West.  The
transport system links the interior of the country with the capital and
principal port of Banjul at the mouth of the Gambia river and provides
for north-south overland transport corridors connecting Northern and
Southern Senegal.  The system consists of a relatively well-developed
road network comprising some 510 km of paved roads, 800 km of laterite
gravel roads and about 1,080 km of earth roads and tracks. Because the
river separates the country in two, a partial duplication of road
facilities on the river's northern and southern sides has taken place.
The river is navigable for vessels up to about 4,000 dwt fully laden as
far as the port of Kaur, some 230 km upstream, and for smaller craft
over the remaining 120 km portion in The Gambia. The river system can be
crossed in seven places by vehicular ferries. The Gambia has an inter-
national airport at Yundum, some 20 km from Banjul, but no railway,
aviation or maritime shipping lines (Map IBRD 18944).



-2-
2.02      Port facilities at Banjul are undergoing renewal and expansion
under the IDA-financed Second Port Project (Credit 1266-GM of September
1982).  After project completion, the port's capacity will be adequate
for the foreseeable future. Present annual traffic consists of about
285,000 tons of dry cargo and 44,000 tons of petroleum products as
imports, and 12,000 tons of groundnut oil as exports (Annex 2-1).
2.03      Banjul airport is adequately equipped and includes one of the
longest runways  (3,600 m) in West Africa.   Terminal facilities are
modest and only require minor improvements to handle efficiently some
160,000 passenger movements per year, 60Z of whom travel on charter
flights.   Gambian Airlines is a handling agent only,  and does not
possess any aircraft or operate any air services (Annex 2-2).
2.04      Passenger transport is provided by the private sector which
uses mostly minibuses in competition with the Government-owned Gambia
Public Transport Company (GPTC) which operates about 50 large buses for
urban, suburban, rural and tourist services.  Passenger transport by
river is negligible, except for the vehicle ferry services and small
ferry boats.
2.05      Freight is carried by about 500  trucks, mostly privately
owned, and by a fleet of 50 barges and 8 tugs owned by the Gambia River
Transport Company (GRTC) which is aging and in need of rehabilitation
and renewal. There are no reliable statistics on road transport volumes
or the trends over recent years. Commodities transported by river are
especially groundauts and other bulky goods such as cement and fertiliz-
er. The annual volume of river transport ranges from 60,000 to 110,000
tons, mostly depending on harvest results (Annex 2-3).
2.06      Ferry services across the Gambia river are operated by the
Gambia Port Authority (GPA). The main vehicular ferries are at Banjul
and some 120 km upstream where the Trans-Gambia highway, linking the
southern and northern parts of Senegal, crosses the Gambia river.
Smaller ferry boats provide river crossing services for motor vehicles
at five other points. All ferries are in poor condition and many of the
smaller ones are frequently out of service. The ferry boats and ramps
for the ferry at Banjul are to be rehabilitated with German assistance,
and financing is being sought from the Government of Japan for the
replacement of ferry boats at the Trans-Gambian highway crossing. Ferry
services have been operating at a substantial loss but a recent tariff
increase of 75% aims at remedying this. Furthermore, efforts will be
made to collect all ferry charges from Senegalese vehicles in convert-
ible CFA Francs.
2.07      Transport sector administration is predominantly the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC). The national
(primary and secondary) road network (1,210 km - 450 km paved, 610 km
gravel and 150 km earth) comes directly under MWC. Banjul city and
Kanifing Urban District (near Banjul) are, in principle, responsible for
about 70 km of paved streets. A further 180 km of gravel and 930 km of
earth roads and tracks come under local jurisdictions. In practice, MWC
is the only organization doing regular road maintenance, and provides
ad-hoc assistance for roads under other jurisdictions. The local road
network is generally adequate for the country's needs, except in the
Northeast. About 80% of all villages are within 5 km of a road or track,



- 3 -
and the main transport activity (groundnuts) occurs in the dry season.
Local authorities and communities carry out road repairs as needed and
when funds are available.   About 420 km of local tracks have been
upgraded since 1978 to semi-engineered gravel standard (6 m wide) under
the UNSO Feeder Road Program, and maintenance responsibility for 246 km
has been handed over to MWC. A further 83 km are about to be upgraded
by UNSO, with EEC financing, in the Northeast.   Annex 2-4 provides
details of the country's road networks.
2.08      GPA and GPTC are financially and operationally autonomous
agencies under MWC, but ferry, bus and port tariffs have to be approved
by Government. GPTC has operated at a loss in recent years while GPA
has until recently been losing money because of low ferry tariffs (para
2.06).  GRTC forms part of the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB)
which falls under the Ministry of Agriculture. As part of the Second
Banjul Port Project agreement was reached that river freight transport
services under GRTC, and the ferry services, under GPA, would transfer
to a new state-owned river transport authority (GRTA) within MWC's
portfolio. However, a recent study by consultants has shown that the
nature and scope of financial and operational problems in the river
system merit a more careful scrutiny, and a new approach involving
possible participation of the private sector is being discussed with
Government.   Additionally, the role of river transport in the future
development of The Gambia will be assessed under the project (para
3.11), and the resulting investments, if justified, and institutional
aspects would then be the object of a possible river transport project.
2.09      Transport regulation does not present major problems.  There
are no restrictions on entry to the road transport industry nor are
there regulations assigning routes, commodities or certain types of
traffic to a particular mode.   GPMB is the dominant user of river
transport, but uses road transport when cheaper or more convenient.
Transport coordination has, therefore, largely been the result of
operational practices by GPMB rather than the outcome of careful plan-
ning. Road and river transport freight rates are not regulated, al-
though GPMB sets rates for its own freight movements. However, passen-
ger fares are established by the Government.
2.10      Transport planning has not been an effective and integrated
activity of Government. The Ministry of Economic Planning and Industri-
al Development (MEPID) does investment coordination but no detailed
transport planning. MWC has a Planning Unit covering all activities of
the Ministry.  The Unit is headed by an economist who has planning
experience but only limited exposure to the transport sector. The Unit
has for the past five years been assisted by an expatriate advisor,
mainly for MWC's building activities. Virtually no transport planning
has been accomplished, however, and almost all planning information for
the sector has been assembled by consultants for project related stud-
ies. The future role and staffing of the Planning Unit is being defined
by the organization study for MWC (paras 2.15 and 3.11).
2.11      Transport sector investment has not always been based on sound
economic  and  technical  priorities.   Instead,  it has been  strongly
influenced by socio-political factors and donor agency preferences. As
a result, a number of transport investments have been either over-
designed,  premature,  or not economically Justified.   Most of these



- 4 -
investments were incurred between FY78/79 and FY81/82 and from FY84/85
to the present, when upsurges in road investments took nlace. Following
a severe deterioration in economic conditions in The Gambia. transport
investments will have to decrease over the coming years. Moreover, it
is declared Government policy to reduce the emphasis on transport in
favor of other economic sectors and, within the sector, to concentrate
on maintenance and rehabilitation. The proposed project will assist the
Government through MWC's Planning Unit in preparing three-year roll-over
investment programs based on priorities and studies to determine the
needs and economic justification of proposed investments (para 3.11).
During negotiations, agreement was reached that three-year roll-over
investment programs and annual development and recurrent budgets for the
transport sector will be reviewed with the Association by May 1 of each
year, up to 1992. Furthermore, agreement was reached that: (i) urgent
rehabilitation of transport facilities will be given priority over other
transport investments; (ii) new transport investment and rehabilitation
will not be undertaken unless adequate economic feasibility studies have
been carried out, the estimated rate of return is at least 15Z, and can
be funded without recourse to funds for maintenance programs required
under the transport sector; (iii) the Association, will be consulted
before undertaking new investments or rehabilitation in the transport
sector that exceed US$500,000 equivalent; and (iv) a methodology will be
developed by December 1, 1987, and agreed with the Association, for
selecting feeder roads to be upgraded.  Details of past and proposed
investments in the transport sector are given in Annex 2-5.
2.12      The treaty that established the Senegambia Confederation in
1982 envisages economic integration between the two neighboring coun-
tries. Improvements of some short road sections connecting the two
countries are underway under auspices of the Confederation, but they are
not expected to significantly affect transport patterns in the Gambia
during the project period.  Long term effects of the Confederation, on
the other hand, could be considerable but will largely depend on agree-
ments for economic integration which are still under discussion.
B. The Roads Subsector
2.13      The road system does not suffer from capacity constraints and
even the 11 Km Banjul-Serekunda section, which is now being rebuilt as a
four lane highway, does not have the congestion normally experienced in
capital cities.  Ferry capacity at various river crossings can cause
traffic delays, but this is primarily due to mechanical failures of
ferries.  The Gambia has about 6,000 motor vehicles, but registration
statistics are flawed.  The Government is taking measures to correct
this deficiency. Annex 2-6 shows the estimated vehicle fleet.
2.14      Road administration of the national network comes under the
Directorate of Technical Services (previously Public Works Depart-
ment-PWD) in MWC, through the Engineering Division which has the techni-
cal responsibility for design, construction and maintenance of both
roads and public buildings; maintenance work is carried out by three
provincial divisions (Northern, Western and Eastern).  The MWC Planning
Unit and the Main Store come under the Permanent Secretary. The present
structure of MWC will   be modified based on a recent reorganization
study  (para 2.15).  The provincial divisions have grading units for
gravel roads and shoulders, and premix units for preparing patching



material for paved roads, as well as manual gangs for labor-based tasks.
Supply of cockle shells are managed by headquarters -which contracts
nearly all maintenance related transport.   The provincial divisions
carry out preventive maintenance of its allotted equipment, but repair
work is undertaken by the central workshop of the Mechanical Engineering
Division (NED) which comes under the Directorate of Technical Services.
In the past, routine maintenance programs have been adversely affected
by inconsistent supply of fast moving spare parts -nd fuel for the
equipment (para 2.26). MWC, through the Main Store, also supplies goods
and macerials to all government departments and, through NED, maintains
all public vehicles and equipment except those of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Police.
2.15      The present organization does not permit efficient execution
of road and equipment maintenance, or control of operations among the
various divisions. Furthermore, the lines of responsibility within MWC
and between head office and the provincial divisions are not clearly
defined.  To enable more efficient management of the road network, a
study is being completed by consultants to recommend the most appropri-
ate organization, including separation of MWC's buildings and other
responsibilities from road maintenance activities, and the role of MWC
in transport planning (para 2.10). Furthermore, the functions, respon-
sibilities and accountability of each division in MWC will be defined
and streamlined  (para  3.10).   The  scope of the organizational and
managerial changes in MWC was agreed at negotiations. The enactment of
the new MWC structure is a condition of effectiveness. Annex 2-7 shows
the present and proposed new organization of MWC.
2.16      Seven newly graduated civil engineers have returned to The
Gambia over the past two years and the three provincial divisions are
each headed by a Gambian engineer. Also, an NED technician will com-
plete a mechanical engineering course in UK in 1986.  MWC now has
sufficient professional engineers to manage its operations; further
practical training is planned, under a Kuwait Fund grant, for some of
the civil engineers. The Directorate of Technical Services presently
has an established staff of 959 plus 355 "wage earners".  Under an
ongoing Government program to reduce the Government payroll, the Direc-
torate, at the end of 1985, reduced established staff by 77 positions
and wage earners by 441 positions. However, several divisions are still
overstaffed at semi-skilled and unskilled working levels. required
staffing levels and manpower development needs in MWC are being deter-
mined during the reorganization study in coordination with an ongoing
ODA (UK) financed civil service study which is scheduled to be completed
by June 1986. During negotiations, agreement was reached that further
staff reductions in MWC would be carried out in accordance with targets
agreed with the Association after completion of the ongoing civil
service study.
2.17      Training operations are being conducted both internally and at
local training institutions in the Banjul area. These activities are
coordinated by the Chief Engineer (Engineering Division) with assistance
provided by consultants under the First Project and a USAID sponsored
project (para 2.18). In-house training is centered around road mainte-
nance activities, and equipment and workshop wanagement. In October and
November 1985, MWC's Deputy Chief Engineer and Training Officer partici-
pated in a seven-week course, run by the ILO Training Center in Italy,



- 6 -
Kenya and Tanzania,  financed under the First Project.   During the
course, an outline training program for MWC was prepared by the two
participants. In addition, MWC personnel attend courses at The Gambia
Technical Training Institute (GTTI) and the Management Development
Institute (MDI) on a released time basis.  Some of the GTTI courses are
recognized in the United Kingdom and lead to London City and Guilds
Certificates. A major constraint to training is extensive illiteracy at
middle to lower staff levels. This issue is being reviewed by IDA with
the Ministry of Education regarding the development of an in-house
functional literacy program. The Second Project's training component
will support the continuation of ongoing activities with emphasis on
strengthening MWC's internal training capability, as well as at GTTI and
MDI (para 3.10). Annex 2-8 outlines the functions of GTTI and MDI.
2.18      Equipment management is the main responsibility of MED. The
central workshops, presently located near Banjul port in old flying boat
hangers, will be relocated in mid-1986 to a new facility, financed by
USAID, at Kotu about 14 km from Banjul.  Consultants are preparing
procedures for equipment, workshop and stores management and will train
local staff and workshop instructors until the end of tl- USAID project
in September 1986.  However, this will not provide sufficient training
for  efficient management  practices  to be  sustainable,  and  further
assistance will be provided under the project (para. 3.07).  To date,
MED has not been authorized to charge fully for its services to the
various government agencies. A realistic charging system for mechanical
services to enable MED to function efficiently is being worked out by
MWC and the USAID consultants.  The principles of MED's charging system
were   agreed at negotiations; the detailed list of charges will be
submitted for the Association's approval by June 1, 1986. The Govern-
ment's publication of the charges to be paid to MED, together with
adequate allocations in the FY86/87 budget to pay for MED's services,
are a condition of effectiveness, with implementation to start by July
1, 1986, the beginning of the Government's fiscal year.
2.19      Accounting and internal auditing procedures have basically
been adopted from the British system. There are, however, negligences
and inefficiencies in the follow up of the required procedures. Some
training in cost accounting was provided under the First Highway Mainte-
nance Project but further improvements are needed to consolidate the
achievements and to ensure accuracy and timely availability of pertinent
information on such matters as spending authorized through the approved
budget.  Consultants under ongoing projects are installing systems for
inventory control, stores accounting, workshop job costing, and cost and
performance accounting for routine and periodic maintenance.  These are
simple systems which will be adapted under the Second Project  for
microcomputer use. Assistance to install, operate and train staff in
financial and cost accounting procedures will be provided under the
project (para. 3.07). MWC's Internal Audit Branch functions directly
under the Ministry of Finance and Trade. Its functions are to detect
errors and lack of reliability of accounting records and to ensure that
Government procedures are adhered to.  However, MWC lacks sufficient
qualified staff to carry out the above tasks efficiently. The computer-
ization of records together with on-the-job training and courses at MDI
under the project should enable a small staff of accountants and cost
cleri to- perform adequately. Annex 2-9 provides details of MWC budget-
ing, accounting and costing practices.



2.20      Revenue  from road users  is collected from  taxes on  fuel,
lubricants, vehicle and spare part imports, and annual licenses. Fuel
and vehicle import taxes provide the bulk of the revenue. All revenue
goes to the national treasury.  As a result of increases in internal
prices, because of devaluation, and shortages in local supplies, because
of foreign exchange shortfalls, fu"l consumption has been decreasing
since its peak in 1980. Although no annual traffic counts are avail-
able, traffic levels have undoubtedly declined over recent years. Road
user taxes yield more than is required for road maintenance and overall
road investment, including neu roads. No additional efforts are there-
fore required for resource mobilization purposes, but a better alloca-
tion of scarce resources is needed as outlined in paragraph 2.11 (Annex
2-10 and Annex 2-11).
2.21      Road financing is provided through the recurrent budget, the
development budget and external loans and grants. The recurrent budget
finances expenditures for road maintenance.  Because the various func-
tions of MWC are not clearly separated, data on road maintenance expen-
ditures are not precise. However, since FY77/78 the annual budget for
supplies and contracts has steadily declined. The First Highway Mainte-
nance Project financed all costs (including wages) for regravelling and
resealing works. Under the Second Project, the Government's participa-
tion in routine maintenance will be increased from mid-1987 (para 3.19).
MWC staff salaries come under a separate heading in the recurrent
budget. At negotiationas, agreement was reached that the Government will
modify the recurrent budget presentation by providing separate alloca-
tions for each MWC division, and will provide sufficient funds to
undertake adequate annual road maintenance programs (para 2.11). Annex
2-12 provides details of past recurrent budgets for road maintenance.
2.22      Transport sector rehabilitation and new construction projects
are financed mostly by loans and grants, with local funds provided from
the development budget. Development budget levels are determined by the
Ministry of Finance and Trade and have been governed more by the avail-
ability and amount of foreign financing than priorities within and
between sectors. Over 40Z of the development budget has, in the recent
past, been allocated to transport projects. Bank economic missions have
been discussing with the Government reductions in public investment
levels and changes in sectoral distribution for the three-year period
commencing FY86/87. As a result, less funds are expected to be avail-
able for the transport sector and more rational allocations will be made
within the sector, as outlined in paragraph 2.11.
C. IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.23      The Bank Group has financed three projects in the transport
sector: the First Banjul Port Project (Credit 187-GM, US$2.1 million,
May 1971), a Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 897-GM, US$5.0 million,
March 1979), and the Second Banjul Port Project (Credit 1266-GM, SDR 5.9
million, September 1982).  The First Port Project was satisfactorily
completed in late 1975, while the civil works under the Second Port
Project were substantially completed in 1984.  The project costs are
within the estimates, but land reclamation works have been delayed
because of unstable 'foundations and will not be completed until mid-



- 8 -
1987, about 18 months beyond the original completion date. The delay
vill not unduly affect port operations.
2.24      Execution of the First Highway Maintenance Project proceeded
reasonably well, and the objectives of the project have been met satis-
factorily or exceeded. The project was substantially completed in early
1986, two years after the original completion date. The First Project
consisted of a four-year maintenance program, including routine mainte-
nance of 780 km of roads, regravelling of 190 km of major laterite
roads, and studies for a follow-up maintenance program and for explora-
tion of locally occurring aggregates. The routine maintenance component
has been successful in prolonging the life of th.e existing paved road
system. The regravelling works have resulted in upgrading of important
sections of the North Bank Road. A small resealing unit was set up in
1983 and will complete some 22 km under the First Project. This opera-
tion, which was outside the original project description, has been
successful in salvaging a number of short sections of roads especially
in the Banjul area. Overall, the conditions of the primary and secon-
dary roads have not further deteriorated since the start of the First
Project, and the regravelled and resealed road are in much better
condition than before.
2.25      Fifteen cost clerks have received formal training locally and
two workshop personnel were sent for courses in the U.K. under the
project, while on-the-job training was provided for the staff of the
regravelling and resealing units as well as for 20 road foremen. At the
start of the project there were no Gambian engineers in MWC below senior
management level.  The recent return of seven new civil engineering
graduates should enable eventual institutional sustainability of road
maintenance operations.
2.26      The main problems which delayed the project were outside the
control of MWC.   The Government's  insistence  that  spare parts and
supplies be procured through local suppliers, who carry little or no
stock, resulted in prolonging the down time of equipment requiring
repairs.   Shortage of local funds compounded the difficulties.  The
procurement problem will be addressed under the new project through the
use of international shopping (para 3.18), and funding constraints will
be alleviated by the setting up of revolving funds for IDA and Govern-
ment funds (paras 3.21 and 3.22).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Objectives
3.01      The project scope, prepared in 1983 by MWC consultants, was
reduced in 1984 and again at appraisal in January 1985, to take into
account the country's financial constraints. The main objective of the
project is to support MWC in carrying out a four-and-one-half-year (1986
to mid-1990) road maintenance and upgrading program comprising: (i)
continuation and expansion of the road maintenance program initiated
under the First Project; (ii) rehabilitation of the highest priority
sections of the paved network; (iii) strengthening of the organization
and management of MWC to improve the efficiency of road and equipment
maintenance; (iv) introduction of sound transport planning procedures;



- 9 -
and (v) assistance to domestic contractors to enable their more effec-
tive participation in road maintenance activities.
B. Project Description
3.02      To assist in fulfilling the objectives,  the project would
provide financial assistance for the following components:
(a) Road Maintenance Program:
(i)  regravelling, resealing and routine maintenance of the
national and local road networks;
(ii)  experimental low-cost paving of gravel road sections;
(iii) equipment and vehicles, including initial stocks of spare
parts; and
(iv)  road maintenance and workshop management assistance.
(b)  Road and Bridge Rehabilitation:
i)  reconstruction of Bund Road (3.5 km), the main access to
the Banjul Port, and strengthening of deformed sections
along 150 km of the South Bank Road; and
(ii)  reconstruction of Brumen Bridge on the South Bank Road.
(c) Institutional Strengthening:
(i)  technical assistance to MWC for implementing its reorgan-
ization, for transport planning and studies, and for
auditing;
(ii)  training program for MWC staff; and
(iii) technical assistance and training for domestic contrac-
tors.
C. The Road Maintenance Program
3.03      Routine road maintenance operations presently come under the
responsibility of MWC's three provincial divisions. Under MWC's reor-
ganization, two Roads Divisions will be created (para 3.16). The length
of roads to be maintained by MWC will increase from about 780 km under
the First Project to about 1,300 km under the Second Project, comprising
about 450 km of paved roads and 610 km of gravel roads of the national
network, as well as 45 km of paved local roads in Banjul City and
Kanifing Urban District and about 200 km of gravel local roads which
have national importance. UNSO will provide financial assistance over
two calendar years (1987-88) for maintenance of 340 km of the gravel
roads. A further 150 km of gravel roads in the Northeast may be added
to the maintenance program by the end of the project implementatior.
period. The most appropriate organization and methodology for carrying
out labor-based routine maintenance operations, comprising vegetation



- 10 -
control, culvert and ditch cleaning, and patching of gravel and paved
roads, will be tested under a two-year pilot project with ILO (SIDA
financed).   This  project  started  in  early  1986,  and  will  include
maintenance of some 60 km of paved and 50 km of gravel roads south of
the Gambia river. Two systems will be tested: (i) a lengthman system
where 3 to 5 km would be allotted to a person living nearby; and (ii) a
petty contract system where local communities would organize themselves
into working gangs.   The pilot project would also  test the use of
tractor-towed graders for smoothing low-trafficked gravel roads.  The
effectiveness and cost of these operations will be monitored and
compared with MWC's present procedures of manual gangs travelling daily
to work sites from the regional offices. The preliminary results of the
three systems will be reviewed jointly by MWC, ILO, EEC, UNSO and IDA by
June  1,  1987.   This  agreement  was  confirmed  at negotiations.   Any
modifications to MWC's routine maintenance practices and equipment
holdings and use (para 3.12) will be incorporated into the annual road
maintenance programs from July 1, 1987. Annex 3-1 details local roads
to be included in the road maintenance program.
3.04      Periodic maintenance of national roads will continue to be
carried out by MWC with continued managerial and technical assistance by
consultants engaged under the First Highway Maintenance Project.  All
periodic maintenance activities are presently carried out by force
account, except for some Detty contracts for the extraction and supply
of cockle shells for resealing works. Regravelling will be continued by
the Unit set up under the First Project, and will complete about 230 km
under the project. The required production of about 60 km per year has
been achieved whenever spare parts and fuel supplies have been supplied
regularly (para 2.26).  A further 30 km of regravelling will be con-
tracted out by UNSO. The paved road patching and resealing unit started
systematic cockle shell resealing in 1983, and will undertake about 100
km-under the project. A further 130 km will be fog sealed. The period-
ic maintenance program would enable MWC to catch up on the work back-log
and to initiate systematic monitoring of road conditionr and scheduling
of timely regravelling and resealing operations. Annex 3-2 provides
details of the periodic maintenance program.
3.05      The Gambia has good quality lateritic gravels over most of the
country,  and a relatively dry climate.   Roads regravelled under the
First Project have shown less than expected deterioration and gravel
loss, and riding surfaces have often become extremely hard.  In some
other African countries where this phenomenon has occurred, bituminous
seals applied about one year after gravelling have performed well.
Under the project, about five km of experimental low-cost paving (about
US$20,000/km or under half the cost of traditional paving) will be
undertaken along two road sections east and west of Farafeni in order to
test  the technical  feasibility of  this approach.   Construction and
annual maintenance costs will be monitored for these sections, riding
quality assessed, and comparisons made against adjacent gravel sections.
Other short sections may also be paved under the experiment.   The
economic feasibility and financial costs fo_ low-cost paving at differ-
ent traffic levels will be determined. Since The Gambia presently has
about 175 km of gravel roads with 150-250 vpd, this experiment might
show significant economic benefits in low-cost paving of laterite gravel
roads.



- 11 -
3.06      Renewal and Operation of MWC's Road Maintenance Equipment.
Regravelling, resealing and mechanized road maintenance operations vill
be carried out with MWC's existing equipment. Past budget constraints
and foreign exchange shortages have not permitted replacement of aged
units since the start of the First Project, when some new equipment was
procured and overhauls were carried out with assistance of consultants.
Equipment and vehicles, including initial stocks of spare parts, will be
procured in two batches under the project. The first batch will fill
present gaps in the fleet and replace aged units.  The second, to be
carried out after the June 1, 1987 reviews of labor-based maintenance
procedures (para. 3.03) and contractor participation in road maintenance
(para. 3.12), will replace additional aged units.  Consideration will
also be given to the availability of UNSO equipment, which is presently
being used for their feeder road upgrading program in the Northeast.
Spare par-s, fuel, tools and other imported materials required for road
maintenance operations will be procured under the project using interna-
tional suppliers, where appropriate, to avoid the recurrent shortages in
the local market experienced under the First Project, and to ensure more
efficient use of equipment. MED will also be provided with an initial
stock  of spare  parts  for vehicle maintenance.   Annex 3-3 provides
details of equipment procurement.
3.07      Road Maintenance and Workshop Management.  In order to contin-
ue the training of MWC staff in all areas of road maintenance management
and operations, the consultants financed under the First Project will
continue their services (125 m-m) under the Second Project. The team
will also include an accountant to assist in streamlining MWC's finan-
cial accounting procedures and to firmly establish the costing system
developed under the First Project (para 2.19). In order to follow up on
the USAID project, MWC will also engage two specialists (25 m-m) to
assist in managing the new central workshop under MED and in running
related training programs. MED's main counterparts would be the senior
mechanical engineer and the stores superintendent who would receive
on-the-job training. The technical assistance would actively assist MWC
staff in managing the road and equipment maintenance operations up to
mid-1988, after which assistance would be limited to short-term visits
over  the  remaining  projert  implementation  period.   The  terms  of
reference and counterpart staffing were agreed at negotiations. Annexes
3-4 and  3-5 provide  details  of  the Road Maintenance  and Workshop
technical assistance, respectively.
D. Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
3.08      The follow-up maintenance study (para 2.24) indicated that
about 170 km of the paved South Bank Road need strengthening. However,
because of financial constraints, about 150 km of the road between
Yundum and Soma would be partially strengthened and the riding surface
improved by  laying an  asphalt-mix  levelling  course.   Further  site
investigations will be required, and the extent and details of the
solution adopted will depend on available financing. In addition, the
3.5 km Bund Road, which links Banjul Port to the South Bank Road, needs
pavement reconstruction and raising where it crosses an area subject to
flooding.   The  reconstruction  cost  is  estimated  at  US$250,000/km.
Detailed engineering is being carried out under the PPF (para 3.13).



- 12 -
3.09      The 117 m long, single lane, Brumen Bridge, built 20 years
ago, is in poor condition because of deterioration of the concrete
superstructure wWh.h is composed of unsuitable laterite aggregates. The
pile foundations, which were built for a future two-lane bridge, are
basically sound. Under the project the piles will be strengthened, the
superstructure will be rebuilt to higher standards for heavy truck
traffic, and the deck widened to two-lane (9-10m) width. The construc-
tion cost is estimated at US$750 per square meter. Detailed engineering
is being carried out under the PPF (para 3.13).
E. Institutional Strengthening and Trainnag
3.10      Technical assistance (23 am-) will be provided to assist MWC
in implementing efficient management procedures under its new organiza-
tion (para. 2.15), and, in coordination with other consultants, in
preparation of reporting and monitoring requirements at the different
management levels.  Training assistance (6 m-m) will have two major
objectives: (i) to improve MWC management and use of personnel through
the development of effective personnel management policies and proce-
dures; and (ii) to improve MWC management capability and staff produc-
tivity through various training and upgrading programs. MWC's Training
Officer will be assisted in preparing details of the training program by
March 1, 1987, and in monitoring its effectiveness through periodic
visits during the project implementation period. The project will also
provide equipment, materials and supplies for upgrading MWC's headquar-
ters and provincial offices and for in-house training, and training at
GTTI and MDI; support tuition costs for selected GTTI and MDI courses;
and finance expenses for overseas seminars and work study tours for
professional staff. The Personnel Development Program for MWC and terms
of reference for management and training assistance were agreed at
negotiations (Annex 3-6).
3.11      The future role and functions of MWC's Planning Unit is being
determined  under  its  reorganization.   The  Government's  transport
planning capabilities require strengthening and 36 m-m of assistance
will be provided under the project. Additionally, studies required to
assess the economic role of river transport in The Gambia will be
carried out under the project  (para 2.08).  The functions of MWC's
Planning Unit and outline term  of reference for technical assistance
were agreed at negotiations (Annex 3-7).
3.12      Domestic Construction Industry.  In order to have a better
knowledge of the physical and financial capacity of the small domestic
construction industry, a consultant  (4 m-m) will be engaged to (i)
undertake a six-week study and recommend a plan of action to utilize,
more effectively, private firms in road and building maintenance activi-
ties, and (ii) conduct courses and assist domestic contractors in
improving their efficiency and cost control. The study will be com-
pleted in early 1987, s0 that MWC would be able to determine its future
equipment requirements for road maintenance (para 3.06). During negoti-
ations, the Government confirmed its commitment to increase the use of
contractors in road maintenance activities and agreement was reached on
the terms of reference for the study and training of domestic contrac-
tors (Annex 3-8).



- 13 -
F. Refinancing of PPF
3.13      To assist The Gambia in preparing project components,  the
Association granted an advance of US$550,000 in the form of a PPF
(US$200,000 in July 1985 and a further US$350,000 in December 1985).
The funds are being used to finance: (i) a study to recommend changes in
MWC's organization; (ii) detailed engineering for reconstruction of Bund
Road and Brumen Bridge; (iii) redesign of Laminkoto-Passimus Road to
feeder roads standard, and economic re-evaluation; and (iv) continuation
of the road maintenance consultants during the interim period between
the end of the First and start up of the Second Project.  The studies
are well underway and detailed engineering is scheduled to be completed
by mid-1986.
G. Project Cost Estimates and Financing
3.14      The estimated total cost of the project including MWC sala-
ries and wages, and contingencies, is US$16.4 million equivalent. No
duties or taxes are to be levied against project items, except for those
paid by domestic contractors engaged in road maintenance activities.
The foreign exchange component is about US$13.2 million, or 80% of the
total cost. Base costs have been estimated at February 1986 prices.
Physical contingencies average about 3X of base costs, and comprise 10X
for road and bridge rehabilitation, 52 for institutional strengtnening,
and OZ for the road maintenance program which covers a four-and-one-
half-year (1986 to mid-1990) time slice and for which no physical
contingencies are normally provided. Price contingencies average 17% of
base costs plus physical contingencies, and are based on estimated
foreign inflation of 72 for 1986 and 1987, about 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for
1989, 7.6% for 1990, and 4.5% for 1991 onwards.  Estimated rates of
inflation on foreign costs have been applied to both foreign and local
costs. This assumes that the exchange rate (taken as US$1.0 - Dalasis
5.2 for base costs estimates) will be adjusted for divergences between
foreign and local rates of inflation.  Overall, about 220 n-m of techni-
cal, management and training assistance will be provided under the
project.   Consultants will also supervise civil works contracts and
carry out transportation studies.
3.15      The  project  will be  externally  financed by:  IDA  (US$5.8
million equivalent), AfDF (US$4.5 million equivalent), EEC (US$2.0
million equivalent), UNSO through financing still to be secured (US$0.6
million equivalent), and UNDP (US$0.7 million equivalent) amounting to
US$13.6 million equivalent.  The remaining US$2.8 million equivalent
will be provided by the Government.   SIDA has  separately provided
US$120,000 equivalent for the ILO-executed pilot routine maintenance
project  (para  3.03).   Cross  effectiveness  conditionality  has  been
provided for EEC, UNSO and UNDP financed components. UNSO will co-
finance feeder road maintenance during calendar  1987-88.   The AfDF
cofinanced package is self-contained and modification in length of roads
to be strengthened, because of financing constraints, or delays in
implementation, should not seriously affect the performance of the
IDA-funded  components  and  the road maintenance  program.   IDA will
retroactively finance up to US$300,000 for exrpenditures incurred from
January 1. 1986 for the road maintenance program. External financing
for periodic and routine maintenance will cover 60% of total direct
operating   costs  over  the  project   implementation  period.    The



- 14 -
Government's contribution to the project will amount to US$1.5 million
equivalent for local expenditures and US$1.3 million equivalent for MWC
salaries and wages. External financing will cover 801 of total cost or
901,  excluding wages and salaries.   Details  of  cost estimates  and
financing plan are shown in Annex 3-9.
H. Implementation and Present Status of The Project
3.16      The Permanent Secretary of MPW will have overall responsibili-
ty for implementation of the Project, with the Director of Technical
Services providing coordination of the maintenance program, road and
bridge rehabilitation and MED's workshop management. Road maintenance,
upgrading and rehabilitation will be executed by the two new Roads
Divisions (East and West); workshop management comes under MED and
training under the new Administrative Division. The Permanent Secretary
will  directly  oversee  the  transport  planning  component.   The  road
maintenance program has been fully prepared. Detailed engineering for
reconstruction of Bund Road and Brumen Bridge is underway and prelimi-
nary cost estimates have been prepared. Because of the nature of the
South Bank Road strengthening (para 3.08) detailed surveying and design
will be carried out immediately prior to executing the works; quantity
estimates and specifications will be prepared by mid-1986. Rehabilita-
tion of Bund Road and the South Bank Road could be carried out under one
contract. The project is expected to be effective in July 1986 and to
be physically completed by June 30, 1991, which allows for a 12 month
slippage in executing the four-and-one-half-year maintenance program.
The agreed implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3-10.
I. Procurement
3.17      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Method     Total
Project
Items to be Procured                  ICB    LCB   Other    NA b/   Cost
Equipment and vehicles and            1.7     -      0.4       -       2.1
initial stocks of spare parts          -      -    (0.4)       -      (0.4)
Road maintenance and paving c|        0.3    0.4    3.9       1.3 d/  5.9
(0.2)  (0.1)  (2.8)      -      (3.1)
Road and bridge rehabilitation        4.6      -     0.4       -      5.0
Technical assistance, studies
and training                         -      -      2.9       -      2.9
(1.8)      -     (1.8)
Refinancing PPF                        -      -       -       0.5     0.5
(0.5)   (0.5)
Total Project               6.6    0.4    7.6       1.8    16.4
(0.2)  (0.1)  (5.0)    (0.5)   (5.8)
a/ Amounts financed by IDA are in parentheses.
b/ Not applicable.
cl Spare parts, fuel, lubricants, tools, petty contracts and materials.
d/ MWC salaries and wages.



- 15 -
3.18      Procurement  of  equipment,  vehicles,  non-proprietary  spare
parts and bitumen products will be carried out under ICB in accordance
with Bank guidelines.   Contracts for supply of goods and materials
estimated to cost less than US$10,000 equivalent (except for fuel), up
to an aggregate of US$200,000 equivalent (except for fuel), may be
procured through local shopping. Equipment and spare parts of a propri-
etary nature or subject to standardization may be procured with prior
IDA agreement on the basis of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers, with at least two of them operating international-
ly. Contracts for road maintenance activities up to US$100,000 may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally. Petty
contracts (under US$10,000 equivalent) for road maintenance activities
would be negotiated, based on procedures and unit rates established with
assistance  of  the  road  maintenance  consultants.   Consultants  for
technical assistance will be appointed in accordance with Bank
guidelines.   Force  account  operations  will  be  permitted  for  road
maintenance and low-cost paving works. All transactions in excess of
US$50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior approval by IDA.
J. Disbursements
3.19      Although  the project  covers  a  four-and-one-half-year  time
slice, disbursements are estimated to follow the historic disbursement
profile for IDA financed highway projects in West Africa, i.e. six
years, as was the case under  the First Project.   However,  initial
disbursements will be greater than historic levels due to refunding of
the PPF Advance and the initial advance into the Special Account (para
3.21). The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1992.
IDA financing of road maintenance activities will be progressively
reduced from mid-1987 with consequential increases in MWC's road
maintenance budget.   The  IDA Credit will be disbursed  against the
following categories, and on the basis of the estimated disbursement
schedule (Annex 3-11):
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Amount       Percent
Category       Description                           (US$ Millions)      Financed
I    Equipment and vehicles (including initial
stock of spare parts), office supplies and
materials                                            0.40           100%
2    Road maintenance and paving; direct operating
costs, excluding salaries and wages:                 2.70
Expenditures before July 1, 1987                                 100%
Expenditures between July 1,1987 & June 30,1988                   80%
Expenditures thereafter                                           60%
3    Technical assistance, audits, studies and
training                                             1.65           100%
4    Refunding of PPF Advance                             0.55           Amount
Due
5    Unallocated                                          0.50
Total           5.80



- 16 -
3.20      Disbursements  for  routine  road  maintenance,  regravelling,
resealing and low-cost paving works will be made against statements of
expenditures (SOF's) using unit rates covering direct operating costs
(excluding salaries and wages) for each work item in accordance with the
agreed program.  Unit rates for force account activities have been
established under the First Highway Maintenance Project, and will be
updated and agreed with IDA on a quarterly basis.   For contracted
activities, the applicable contract rates will apply. Other disburse-
ments will be made against standard documentation. The unit rates for
the road maintenance program to be used from the start of the project
for disbursement purposes were agreed at negotiations.   Annex 3-12
provides details of the unit rates and Annex 3-13 the annual road
maintenance targets.
3.21      A revolving fund will be established for IDA funds in a
Special Account opened in foreign currency in the Central Bank of The
Gambia.   An advance of US$400,000 from IDA funds into the Special
Account will be made after the Declaration of Effectiveness, to cover
about four months of project expenditures. Disbursements may be made
from the Special Account for all project expenditures eligible for IDA
financing. The Special Account will be replenished following applica-
tions for reimbursement by MWC, together with appropriate supporting
documentation or SOE's,  as well as bank statements.   Reimbursement
applications will be submitted to IDA whenever accumulated withdrawals
amount to US$100,000. The amount of IDA replenishment will not exceed
the authorized allocation.
3.22      Counterpart funds will be made available by the Government
through its budgetary allocations. A revolving fund for local supplies
and petty contracts will be established for counterpart funds in a
Project Account to be administered by the Accountant  General.   An
initial deposit of Dalasis 40,000 will be made by the Government before
IDA advances the initial deposit in the Special Account.  MWC will
prepare, one month prior to each quarter, a work program and related
estimates of expenditures for project execution during the forthcoming
quarter.   The  required  counterpart funds will be deposited by the
Government into the Project Account before the end of the first month of
each quarter. IDA replenishments of the Special Account will be condi-
tional on the Government having deposited the required counterpart funds
into the Project Account. Only eligible project expenditures will be
made from the Project and Special Accounts. MWC, with assistance of the
road maintenance consultants, will manage all accounting records and MWC
will prepare supporting documentation and SOE's.
K. Reporting and Auditing
3.23      Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by MWC with the
assistance of consultants and sent to the Association within one month
after the end of each quarter.  These reports will include:  (i) pro-
gress achieved against the agreed implementation and disbursement
schedules, and key performance indicators; (ii) work programs and cost
estimates for the coming quarter (para. 3.22); and (iii) statements for
the revolving funds. External auditors acceptable to the Association
will be engaged under the project to carry out annual audits of the
project as well as the Project and Special Accounts in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Auditing. Each Audit Report, together with a



- 17 -
management letter, will be sent to the Association not later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year.  The reporting and auditing
requirements were agreed at negotiations.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Nature of Project Benefits
4.01      The present deterioration of the highway system under the
jurisdiction of MWC does not yet impose serious restrictions on trans-
portation.  The maintenance program, however,  is urgently needed to
protect the highway investment, and to prevent further deterioration in
road conditions which would cause physical bottlenecks in transport in
the near future and would also necessitate larger future investments for
road rehabilitation. Since the costs of potential transport bottlenecks
are difficult to estimate, the project benefits quantified are mainly in
the form of savings in road maintenance and road user costs generated by
the project. Other benefits, such as time savings or positive effects
on agricultural supplies and production because of reduced transport
costs have not been quantified.
4.02      Traffic volumes for the various roads are mainly based on
traffic counts made in 1982; average daily traffic (ADT) in 1984 is
assumed the same as 1982 ADT, as economic activity remained stagnant
during this period. An annual growth-rate of 5% has been assumed for
future years which is in line with the recovery scenario recently
outlined in the Bank's report on the Development Issues and Prospects
for The Gambia. The economic return calculations for the maintenance
program were also tested for a zero traffic-growth assumption. Traffic
on the project roads is not expected to be influenced by the Senegambia
Confederation during the project period. Annex 3-2 presents the esti-
mated 1984 traffic levels.
B. Economic Returns and Sensitivity
4.03      The economic benefits of the project have been calculated for
all main components: maintenance of gravel roads, maintenance of paved
roads, rehabilitation of 150 km of paved road sections and the Brumen
Bridge. The internal economic rate of return (ERR) on the gravel road
maintenance component is estimated at 28%.   The maintenance component
for paved roads has a much higher economic justification which is caused
by the greater state of deterioration of the roads and by higher traffic
volumes. The estimated ERR on this component is 70X. The estimated ERR
on the entire maintenance program for the paved and gravel road network
covered under the project is about 39%. The rates of return were tested
for a shortfall in benefits by 20%, an increase in cost by 20% and a
zero percent traffic growth. The resulting estimated ERRs are 25%, 27%
and 28%, respectively.
4.04      Pavement strengthening of sections of the South Bank Road, the
principal overland link with the interior of the country, is of high
priority. The road sections are in fair to poor condition and, without
any strengthening, will continue to deteriorate rapidly.   The sections
to be improved carry traffic volumes of 1,800 vehicles per day (vpd) for
Yundum-Brikama (10 km), 540 vpd for Brikama-Kalagi (100 km) and 480 vpd
for Kalagi to near Soma (40 km).  The combined estimated ERR for these



- 18 -
road sections is 342. The Bund Road carries some 1,900 vpd. It bypass-
es Banjul's city center for most traffic to and from the port and ferry,
and has been designated as the official truck route to the port.  The
road is in poor condition and some stretches are subject to periodic
flooding. The estimated ERR for the improvements of the Bund Road is
about 32X. If the Brumen Bridge is not improved soon, its rapid deteri-
oration will lead to severe load restrictions and probably to a disrup-
tion of road service. The ERR on this investment is estimated at 49Z.
4.05      The composite ERR from total project investments, excluding
technical assistance for institutional strengthening which could not be
allocated to particular road programs, and excluding PPF advance which
is treated as a sunk cost,  is estimated  at 38%.  These quantified
components cover 79% of the total project costs. More details on the
economic analysis are presented in Annex 4.
Project Risks
4.06      Based on the satisfactory implementation of the First Highway
Maintenance Project and the commitment of the Government to reorganize
MWC and improve its management procedures, there would be no major risks
concerning project implementation. However, further aggravation of The
Gambia's economic situation could limit funds for road maintenance. The
Association will annually review the road investment and maintenance
programs and agree on budget levels for the annual road maintenance
program. A second risk concerns the extent of the Government's
long-term commitment to institution building. A weakening of Govern-
ment's decision to streamline existing procedures in MWC and to delegate
responsibilities to line managers would not unduly affect implementation
of the project but would extend the period needed for expatriate techni-
cal assistance. Through careful monitoring and follow-up, the Associa-
tion will try to reduce this risk. Moreover, an important element of
institutional strengthening is the strong technical assistance support
to implement the project over the first two years (para 3.07), and to
train engineers, planners, managers and technicians in their tasks.
This will, in itself, enhance the overall management efficiency of MWC,
and will facilitate the establishment of sustainable operational proce-
dures.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached or confirmed on the
following points:
(a) Annual reviews of three-year roll-over investment programs and
annual development and recurrent budgets for the transport
sector by May 1 of each year, up to 1992; with the agreement
that: (i) urgent rehabilitation of transport facilities will
be given priority over other transport investments; (ii) new
transport investment and rehabilitation will not be undertaken
unless adequate economic feasibility studies have been carried
out, the estimated rate of return is at least 15%. and can be
funded without recourse to funds for transport maintenance
programs; (iii) the Association will be consulted before
undertaking  new   transport   investments   over  US$500,000
equivalent; and (iv) a methodology will be developed by



- 19 -
December 1, 1987 and agreed with the Association for selecting
feeder roads to be upgraded (para 2.11);
(b) Scope of the organizational and managerial changes in MWC
(para 2.15);
(c) Further staff reductions in MWC will be in accordance will
targets agreed with The Association after completion of
ongoing civil service study (para 2.16);
(d)  The principles of MED's charging system for workshop services;
the list of charges to be submitted for the Association's
approval by June 1, 1986; implementation to start by July 1,
1986 (para 2.18);
(e) Modify the recurrent budget presentation by providing separate
allocations for each MWC division, and provide sufficient
funds to undertake adequate annual road maintenance programs
(para 2.21);
(f) Review by MWC, ILO, EEC, UNSO and IDA of routine maintenance
methods by June 1, 1987; any modifications in MWC's mainte-
nance practices and equipment holdings and use will be incor-
porated into annual road maintenance programs from July 1,
1987 (para 3.03);
(g)  Terms of reference  and counterpart  staffing for road and
workshop management assistance (para 3.07);
(h) Personnel Development Program for MWC and terms of reference
for management and training assistance (para 3.10);
*i) The functions of MWC's Planning Unit, and terms of reference
for technical assistance to strengthen transport planning
(para 3.11);
(j) Government commitment to increase the use of contractors in
road maintenance activities, and terms of reference for the
study and training of domestic contractors (para 3.12);
(k) Unit rates for the road maintenance program to be used from
the start of the project for disbursement purposes (para
3.20);
(1) Reporting and auditing requirements (para 3.23);
5.02      Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Enactment of the new MWC structure (para 2.15);
(b) Publication of charges to be paid to MED, together with
adequate allocations in FY86/87 budget to pay for MED's
services (para 2.18); and
(c) Cross effectiveness conditions with EEC, UNSO and UNDP fi-
nanced components (para 3.15).



- 20 -
5.03      Conditions of Disbursements
(a) Initial deposit of Dalasis 40,000 by Government in the Project
Account before IDA advances the initial deposit in the Special
Account (para 3.22);
(b) IDA replenishments of the Special Account to be conditional on
the Government having deposited the required counterpart funds
into the Project Account (para 3.22).
5.04      Subject to the above terms, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit to the Government of The Gambia in the amount of US$5.8
million equivalent, on standard IDA terms.
WAPT1
February 1986



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Banjul Port Traffic, 1974-83
('000 Freight Tons)
FY73/74 FY74/75 FY75/76 FY76/77 FY77/78 FY78/79 FY79/80 FY80/81 FY81/82 FY82/83 FY83/84
A. Imports
a. Dry Cargo               92        92       117       150      215      214      237       212     164      147      221
b. Petroleum Products    24          22        33        31       36       48       45        52      35       40       44  9
Total Imports         116       114      150       181       251      262     282       264      199      187     265
B. Exports
a. Dry Cargo              41        53        52       57        68       65       74       43       42       78       63
b. Groundnut Oil          16        17        18        18        11      13       10         8       5       11 112
Total Exports          57        70       70        75        79       78      84        51       47       89      75
Combined Total             173       184       220       256      330      340      366       315     246      276      340
Source: Statistics Department
WAPT1
February 1986



- 22 -                                ANM   2-2
Die GSI
SIW= HIGZ H:rI PD
Bmjtdl Airport Traffic
FY75/76  F76/77 F7/78 F/78/9 FY79/80 7M/81  EY81/82  FY82/83  73/84  7184/85
Pa_eq Ttfi
Sddu
Di.baddrvg              9,901   12,576  14,260  17,336  21,370  20,927  17,921   23,382   20.591   24,257
Ewihngr                11,215   13,324  15,166  18,970  22,064  21,992  19,142   23,630   21,095   24,431
Tnmsklt                15,341   17,093  13,891  20,170  21,484  31,366  27,016   22,837   23,707   27,064
N61zlei iCralat)
DlnuuHbarldr6          21,116   19,505  15,769  25,907  23.822  19,029  13,331   26,745   39,491   45,861
~Eddiaicg              20,513   19,473  15,389  23,973  19,654  17,034  10,479   26,730   39,396   40.593
TnRau                      77       -       168      53      -        5       -        -        -        -
P        d  (Othr)
DIuimbaridig              810      578      406       4     423      774     305      518       43    1,157
EzrIiikbg                 877      544      412     256     524      857     304      481    1,004    1,185
Irsnsit                    -         9       -       -      102      258     377      256      358       567
Dlbinbaddug                -       479      389     559      42        1      38       25       72        8
PodrkLiag                  -       289      477      34      40       1        8       27       46        8
Transit                    -        -        15      -       40       -      264      676      188        -
Total
DbiNNserdmidg          31,827   33.138  30,824  43,806  45,657  40,731  31,595   50,670   60,197   71,283
-ftidnv              32,605   33.630  31,444  43,233  42,282  39,884  29,933   50.868   61,541   66,217
frmisfd                15,418   17,102  14,074  20,223  21,626  31,629  27.657   23,769   24,253   27,631
n            (kg)
35,379   47,764  45.466  52,553  59.005  56.815  52,581   54,127   45,470   41,184
sTnolkfag               8,774    9,809  11,119  13,027  15,141  11,404  10,038   11,585   11.853    9,731
Total                  !4,J53   57,573  56,585  65,580  74,146  68.219  62,619   65,712   57,323   50,915
CaWo H^RAD1(ng x)
Disen irsidng         427,122  443,963 657,193 559.688 634.912 506.246 737,381  831,042  957.416  935,823
Edorki%                77,745  177,035 141,517 211,270 159.263 191,092 245.769  201,199  208,373  407.753
Total                 504,867  620,998 798,710 770,958 794.175 697,338 983,150 1,032,241 1,165,789 1,343,576
S:ce: Statistics Departmit
wAry
Fdmuaiy 1986



- 23 -
ANNEX 2-3
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Gambia River Traffic
('000 Tonnes)
Fiscal Years:              FY76/77    FY77/78   FY78/79   FY79/80   FY80/81   FYB1/82   FY82/83
Groundnuts
From GPMB Depots to:
Kaur               31.0      32.8       33.3       16.0       6.4       22.2       39.0
Banjul             50.7      49.2       39.1      29.4       21.2       35.9      54.3
Subtotal           81.7      82.0       72.4      45.4       27.6       58.1      93.3
Rice                          13.2      11.3       16.9      16.4       15.2        9.1      11.5
Fertilizer                    5.5        5.7        4.5       9.9        7.5        7.6       1.9
Other                         4.9        7.2        9.5       5.2        7.7        4.5       1.8
Total            105.3     106.2      103.3      76.9       58.0       79.3     108.5
Source: Statistics Department
WAPTI
February 1986



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Network Evolution
(in Km)
PRIMARY ROADS                 SECONDARY ROADS                   LOCAL ROADS                   TOTAL NETWORK
YEAR   PAVED  GRAVEL  EARTH  TOTAL  PAVED  GRAVEL  EARTH  TOTAL  PAVED  GRAVEL  EARTH  TOTAL  PAVED  GRAVEL  EARTH TOTAL
1977    235      431    91       757      5        86    361    452    66         10    1088   1164    306        527   1540  2373
1978    235      431    91       757      5       113    334    452    66         16    1097   1179    306        560   1522  2388
1979    235      431    91       757      5       186    261    452    66         45    1068   1179    306        662   1420  2388
1980    265      401    91       757      5       215    232    452    66         53    1060   1179    336        669   1383  2388
1981    355      311    91       757      5       229    218    452    66         53    1060   1179    426        593   1369  2388
1982    429      237    91       757      5       355     92    452    66         65    1048   1179    500        657   1231  2388
1983    429      237    91       757      5       360     87    452    66        137     976   1179    500        783   1105  2388
1984    442      224    91       757      5       388     59    452    66        182     931   1179    513        794   1081  2388
Source: MWC
WAPTI
December 1985
1



- 25 -
ANNEX 2-5
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Transport Investments
1.        A broad review of the Government's recent investments and
current investment plans indicates progress in developing the transport
system,  but  also  some  problems  in  establishing  priorities.   These
problems are caused by a lack of detailed planning and the fatct that
investments are financed almost entirely by foreign donor agencies,
which have often not considered fully the country's economic priorities.
2.        An example of recent investments which in the long term may be
useful, but are premature and too costly for The Gambia's current
economic conditions, is the extension of the runway at Banjul airport to
accommodate B747s. The extenslon was completed some three years ago but
so far there is no service by B747s to Banjul and even if there would be
limited service, the investment would not have sufficient economic
justification. A second case is the reconstruction of the Banjul -
Serekunda highway to four lane standards. Technical improvements were
needed, but traffic congestion is only limited to short periods and is
nowhere near what is normally experienced In capital cities.   Stage
construction would, therefore, have been the preferred solution. Past
development expenditures for roads are given in Attachment 1.
3.        In addition to the above, several investments proposed by the
Government will require further careful consideration because of the
additional strain they will place on the Government's investment budget,
future debt servicing and organization and financing of maintenance.
Included in these investments are the planned construction of about 300
km of feeder roads. About 83 km are to be built in the Northeast with
an ECU 2.75 million (about US$2.0 million) grant from EEC; funds coming
from Lome II. Another major expenditure requiring careful review is the
tentative plan for salvage and restoration of the passenger cruise
vessel which recently sank and was not insured (estimated rehabilitation
cost about US$2.5m). The vessel was used primarily for tourist cruises,
but was underutilized and operated at a substantial loss.
4.        A potentially serious problem is the limited attention given
to the condition of the ferries and river transport barges and tugs.
Substantial rehabilitation is required according to a recent technical
report. The generally poor condition of the ferry boats is leading to
unreliable  service  and  resulting  in  traffic delays.   A project  to
rehabilitate the Banjul-Barra ferry has been agreed with KFW. However,
there are no firm commitments for rehabilitation of the other ferries.
The fleet of tugs and barges which is used for long distance transport
of groundnuts and other bulky goods such as cement and fertilizer is
suffering from lack of maintenance. If rehabilitation of the fleet is
not started within the next two to three years, its availability will
decrease with a resulting traffic diversion to road transport. The role
of river transport in The Gambia will be studied under the project.
Attachment 2 provides an outline of the FY86/87-88/89 investment program
for the transport sector, the scope of which is being discussed with the
Association, in light of limitations on development expenditures
required by the IMF.
WAPT1
February 1986



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAT MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Past Davelolmant Expenditures for Roads
(Current Dalauis '000)
Item                  FY76/77      FY77/78      7T78/79      7Y79/80      FY80/81      FY81/82      PY82/83   7183/84       7184165
(Estimates)
Tourism Access Roads                   -           301        3,150          837           -             4           20       3,409        9,200
Banjul-Serekunda Road                406           581           -            -           -            42          620           31           -
Soma-Voroberi Kundu Road                1          341       7,109       14,462        5,625        1,822           123          -            -
Yoroberi Kunda-Basse Road              -            -            -         3,384      11,475        9,210          430           -         5,918
Buniadu-Albredu-Kuntair Road          296           -            -           334       1,694        2,684           50           --
Feeder Roads Phase I & 2           2,293        2,970        2,598        2,148           108          -            -            -            -
Feeder Roads Phase 3                   -            -           -             -        2,004        2,440           -            -            -
Feeder Roads Phase 4                   -            -            -            -            -           -           450           -         1,900
First Highway Haint. Project          -             -           -         1,430        4,751        1,764        2,650        2,931        3,765
Highway Kaint. Workshop                -            -            -            -           -           828          875        2,405        7,258
New Oyster Creek Bridge                                                                                 -          500        3,405        9,200
Laminkoto-Passious Road Study          -            -            -            -            -           -           250           -            -
Mandinaba-Saleti Road                  -            -            -            -            -            -2
Total Cost                2,996        4,193       12,857       22,595       25,657       18,794        5,968       12,181      39,941
(Equivalent Current US$'000)    (1,326)        (1,855)      (6,428)    (12,553)      (13,869)      (8,823)      (2,426)    (3,480)       (9,985)
Source: NEPID
WAPTI1
February 1986



- 27 -
ANNEX 2-5
Attachment 2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Transport Sector Investment Program FY86/87-88/89
February 1986 Constant Prices (US$ million)
Total        Expenditure by Year         3 Year      After
Cost     FY86/87   FY87/88   FY88/89   Total        FY88/89
Banjul-Serekunda Road           10.0       4.0        2.0        -         6.0        -
Laminkoto-Passimus Road          4.0        -         -          2.0        2.0       2.0
Feeder Rds. Upper River Dist.  2.0          1.5       -          -          1.5       -
Hwy. Maintenance II
- Road Maint. and T.A 1/   8.5         3.0 2/    2.2         1.0       6.2        2.3
- Road & Bridge Rehab.      4.2        -          2.6        1.6       4.2        -
Banjul Streets Rehabilitation  1.5         -          0.5        1.0        1.5       -
Banjul-Barra Ferries Rehab.    1.0         0.5        0.5        -          1.0       -
Transgambia Ferries Rehab.       0.7       0.3        0.4        -          0.7       -
Yundum Airport (Phase IV)        3.4        -         0.7        1.5        2.2       1.2
Bakau/Kanifing Road Rehab.       3.4        1.4       2.0        -          3.4       -
River Transport                  4.0       -          -          0.5        0.5       3.5
Total                           42.7      10.7       10.9        7.6      29.2        9.0
1/ Excludes MWC salaries and wages.
2/ Includes US$0.8 million of retroactive financing.
Source: MEPID and Mission
WAPT1
FeLruary 1986



- 28 -
ANNEX 2-6
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Fleet
1976     1977    1978   1979    1980    1983
Private cars              2,200    2,650   2,920  3,143   4,011   2,491
Taxis                        889    1,220   1,800  2,597   2,527   1,604
Buses                         79       80       85     89       35     100
Trucks                     1,092    1,020      980  1,000   1,061      522
Government vehicles        n.a.      n.a.    n.a. (1,181)   (920)   (817)
Diplomatic vehicles        n.a.      n.a.    n.a.   (210)   (306)   (310)
Total Private and
Commercial Fleet a/       4,260    4,970   5,785  6,829   7,634   4,717
a/ Excludes Government and diplomatic vehicles.
Source: MWC
WAPT1
December 1985



-29           AN- 2-7
Page 1 of 2
1ll 0          '    lF        l      0 : 'j 
a 



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROPOSED NEW ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF MWC
MINISTER
PERMANENT
SECRETARY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
ROADS   ROADS          E~PLNGNEING
DI N             D    N        IDIRECTOR OF
UNDER ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ NN                                      TECHNICALNDEl
SECRETARY                                          SERVICES   _SI     ________                                           NECR  oAR
I                                                                    ,                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECRETARY
IMECHANICAL t|| l                        ;  ROADS  RI AD            ENOGINEERINO  
ENGINEERING       BUILDINGS         DIVSIN          DIV181N          & DIESION                      ADMINISTRATVE       nNH
DIVISION         DIVISION            E(ET                           DIVISION                          DIVISION         OI  :
L                            TECHNICAL                         TECHNICAL
L__________     -------r--------- ------   TECHICA
r--- -  --  ---
CORPORAT.       LTD. COMPAN.    DEPARTMENTS
OUC            GAMTEL        CIVIL AVIATON I                                                                     
OPA          OGAVEIA            POSTS    I                                                                          i
OPTC           AIRWAYS          L      J
WORLD EANK-30350



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-8
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Training Institutions
1.        The Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI) was established
in 1983 with financial support from the World Bank.  Enrollment for
1983-84  included  over  400  students  in various  full  dud part-time
programs,  while projected  enrollment  for  1984-85 was  354 students.
Successful completion of many of these programs leads to recognition by
the London City and Guilds.  Apart from training students who enter from
the education sector, a major emphasis is placed on upgrading workers in
supervisory, technical, and commercial job categories. In this regard,
there is close support and coordination wit" the various government
ministries and agencies under the direction of the Vice President's
Office.  This support comes primarily through the membership of GTTI's
Board of Governors which includes two MWC staff members.
2.        The  Management  Development  Institute  was  conceived  with
funding from the World Bank and has been in operation for one year. It
is administered much the same as GTTI, through participation of the
various ministries and under the direction of the Vice President's
Office. The Institute's mandate is to train middle and upper level
management personnel (grade levels 10-21) in:
(a) general management,
(b) financial management and auditing,
Cc) personnel management, and
Cd) project management.
All courses in these areas are custom designed to meet specifically
identified training needs and requirements for the various ministries
and agencies using the institution. The average tuition costs are about
D200 to D250 per trainee/week. Technical assistance is being provided
to train local counterparts in the various teaching disciplines and
management of the school. In addition, the Irish Management Institute
is presently conducting a study of financial management training needs
within The Gambia which will form the basis for future financial
management programs at MDI.
WAPT1
December 1985



- 32 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
MWC Budgeting, Accounting and Costing
Budgeting and Accounting
1.        Budgeting.   MWC  prepares  its  own  annual  development  and
recurrent budgets (including highways).  In  December of each year, MF&T
issues a circular to all ministries to prepare and submit the budget
estimates for the following year. The Permanent Secretary of MWC then
delegates the responsibility for preparing estimates to the Principal
Accountant of MWC, who requests all designated spending officers of the
Ministry to submit their annual estimates.  Once these estimates are
finalized, the recurrent budget is sent to MF&T and the development
budget to MEPID which, after making adjustments, finalizes the
estimates, incorporates them in the national budget and distributes
copies to all concerned in each Ministry before final approval by
Parliament. Following this, a warrant is then issued to the Accountant
General's office by the minister of MF&T authorizing it to accept
expenditures  from MWC based on the approved budget.   The Spending
Officer for KWC, who is the Permanent Secretary, is authorized to issue
cheques for supply of goods or services which are cashed at the Central
Bank. Within MWC, departmental warrants are issued by the Permanent
Secretary to all section heads, who issue subdepartmental warrants to
authorized spending officers in their relative sections. Work Orders
are issued by the spending officers.
2.        Accounting.  An Expenditure and Liability Ledger (E/L Ledger)
is maintained by each spending officer in which expenditures on wages,
fuel, materials, petty contracts, purchases of spare parts etc., are
recorded. The E/L Ledgers are kept for each Division of MWC. Based on
the E/L Ledgers, SOEs for expenditures under the First Highway
Maintenance Project were prepared and certiiied and sent to the
Association with withdrawal applications for reimbursement through MF&T.
SOEs are checked and signed by the Technical Director, Chief Engineer
and Principal Accountant of MWC, and the Consultants' Project Manager
under the project.   The E/L Ledger is reconciled monthly with the
accounting records maintained by the Principal Accountant of MWC.
3.        The MWC Accounting Section maintains separate ledgers and
accounts (Personal emolument record cards for salaried established staff
and for daily paid workers), a vote charge book to record expenses,
other than salaries and wages, such as for fuel, lubrication, material;
ledger cards and costs cards for stores. These records, however, are
either not up to date or not entirely correct; e.g. the status of
advances to the staf' is not exactly known, transport advances (for
buying vehicles, etc) are not maintained correctly, and the stores cards
do not reflect realistic costs of the spare parts and tools. In order
to exercise satisfactory control on project accounts a financial expert
will be hired for 24  imn, as part of the road maintenance consultants
team, for supervising and controlling accounting records, preparation of
reports and SOEs and maintenance of the Special and Project Accounts.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 2 of 2
He will also supervise the workshop costing, inventory acc-unting
through Kardex system, cost and performance accounting and eroject
disbursements and reconciliation with IDA and cofinanciers.
4.        MWC also has an Internal Audit Branch which works directly*
under the Ministry of Finance. Its functions are to detect errors and
reliability of the accounting records, appraise the quality of
performance, ensure that MWC's assets are safeguarded and the Government
procedures are adhered to. This division is understaffed and has acute
shortage of competent and qualified personnel.
Costing
5.        Consultants  established and tested a cost and performance
accounting system for regravelling operations under the First Highway
Maintenance Project.   In addition,  the costing for all routine and
periodic maintenance has been prepared for the Second Project.  The
objectives of the costing system are:
(i) to enable MWC to prepare realistic and reliable annual
budgets taking into consideration actual costs and
defined work programs for road maintenance;
(ii) to ensure the resource data produced by the cost and
performance accounting system is reviewed periodically
and modified as necessary; and
(iii) to enable MWC to monitor the efficiency of resource
utilization.
6.        Given the limitation of the competent staff in MWC the costing
system is being kept simple and straight forward. It will be adapted
for microcomputer use, and will be used for preparing claims for
payments from the Special and Project Accounts, and for the road
maintenance program. Various types of forms will be introduced in the
system, such as inventory of roads showing name of roads sections and
their lengths, type of roads (paved or gravel), classificati.;i (primary,
secondary,  local)  and annual condition inventories.  Another set of
forms will also be used to transform the road inventory 1;.to a fully
costed road maintenance program on the basis of predefined standards.
These forms will analyze the costs under various budget codes. They
will also lead to the preparation of a reliable budget by activity for
the maintenance program. Standards will then be prepared for each major
activity to enable comparison of actual performance with the standards
norms. The cost analyses show costs by each element such as wages and
salaries,  materials used,  equipment  costs  (maintenance costs,  fuel
costs,  depreciation)  and overhead charges  (e.g. headquarters  staff
salaries, miscellaneous indirect costs).  The performance of each field
crew and petty contractor will be analyzed for each maintenance activity
and compared with standard costs. Such comparative analysis of costs
will reveal any weaknesses and inefficiencies so that the management can
take remedial action for future improvements.
WAPT1
February 1986



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-10
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Revenue from Road User Taxes
(Dalasis '000)
FY81/82           FY82/83            FY83/84
Fuel Tax                    12,320            21,871             20,025
Lubricants Tax               1,256             2,609              2,462
Vehicles Import Taxes       12,037            12,596             16,813
Spare Parts & Tires
(Duties)               6,954              4,296             5,159
Licences & Road Taxes         n.a.             2,119              2,100
Total               32,567             43,491            46J559
Source: MEPID
WAPT1
February 1986



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-11
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Fuel Consumption Statistics
(Liters '000)
Year     Petrol Sales    Diesel Sales        GUCl/Diesel    Diesel Sales
Consumption    Net of GUC 1/
FY73/74    12,882            8,882              n.a.             n.a.
FY74/75    15,300           20,205             6,852           13,353
FY75/76    19,836           13,645             7,400            6,245
FY76/77    24,523           19,264             7,724           11,540
FY77/78    20,761           18,553             7,508           11,045
FY78/79    23,203           23,634             7,286           16,348
FY79/80    26,207           26,407             7,850           18,557
FY80/81    23,310           24,569             9,320           15,249
FY81/82    21,583           22,756             9,661           13,095
FY82/83    21,344           22,654            10,877           11,777
FY83/84    19,356           23,157             9,816           13,341
FY84/85    16,970           21,917             9,747           12,170
1/ GUC - Gambia Utility Corporation
Source: MWC
WAPT1
February 1986



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Maintenance Recurrent Budget
(Dalasis '000 Current)
ITEM                                                                                                 Estimate
Supplies and Contracts           75/76    76/77    77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85
Plant and Equipment Replacement         656       149      943      462      305     323       -        -       -        -
Mechanical Maintenance                  136       134      140       95       95      139     129      107     100      250     1
National Roads and Bridges             1126      1615     1657    1345    1365    1170    1050         918     860      885    w
Banjul City Streets                     133       257      233       70       90     115       91       71    1029      100
Sub-total                              2051     2155      2973    1972    1855    1747    1270    1096    1989    1235
Salaries                                188       343      595      592      550     576      638      .77     793      819
Total                   2239     2498      3568    2564    2405    2323    1908    1873    2782    2054
NOTE:  (1) Where there is no clear budget separation of road maintenance from other MWC activities, the
expenditures allocated to road maintenance have been estimated.
(2) The budget appropriations FY84/85 have yet to be published; the FY85/86 estimates are similar to those
of FY84/85.
Source: MWC
WAPT1
December 1985
l



- 37 -
MMu GiMi&                                   lm   3-I
Locma Owds 1adei to do  tmeem P
Fad Sao"                    DWISIon   [AMLisai                         ditkm         Rint
i       _. 11                   v          10.7      Gkz.1          luUt 1963 V6W Fader iwde P PM
VA    CWAm3 Dnitl
kdJ    - -d t                   v          9.5       (kgilB hilt 1982 06W  Fader laedP f
_tibm- DWye                     v         10.2       Gral           hilt 1963 0am Fe   I       P
VAo hit Datdt
Djiba  - Fre Soto                          13.5       Omni          hilt 1963 UE0 Tider  P  ft
hidmml N1Dbm                               .
-iitii a                N           7.1        dve1         Built 196 am Feehider K    PrFs
-U - thr Sio  F                 N          11.6      Gravel         hilt N196  0   Fede lob Eornm
Mi"n Om  fenmba            N          5.4        &vel         hBit 1964 0O6 Fde  bAhku  P a
-obdr - 11_                     N          7.6       Creel          hilt 196  U6 r_1s ad   Pn
hi m  ESa -         5i SLdi     N          13.0     COme            huilt 1963 060 Fhi   hb ide  pnmm
hr iep b-                       N          0.6       Qiel          hBilt 1981 060 FidWe hki  PL
VAfi   - FXrO Ale               N          4.1        cenl          hilt 1966 0M   Fe huh P np
SbttsaL Qbirdun)                          49.4
F     DL
JER hit Wimtd
a _- Bed   Fad                  K          6.3        Gdmi          hilt 1978 16 FeiDer hId  Ptu
UAWr lmr Distrit                K         83.0    G reel            sfedit UM  Fer huh  pFnE
-m ~amm wetrite
lq   d. - 3EihW.                K          11.2      Gruul         Bhilt 1979 U0D Feeder     Prap
Sauel QItO                               1W.5
Xsdapadce kDbe                  N          0.8      Shen S.T.                    d In Bjul we
Gunmesa  Strot                  N          0.2      Slen S.7.                 p       be igtly   z dEg
1iyowf S*                       N          0.4      Sh.1  S.T.                up for layIg of utfiits.
MM*Wlii     Stret (SinaL3ml_  St.) N        1.3     SI.1  S.T.
Bad" stc  (facijid Pi.) n                  1.1      She1  S.T.
Boo t stut                      n          0.9      shen S.T.
aina P                          N          1.0    S0.1  S.T.
_ m 1td PAW                     N          0.2
iok   -  BOX: ilPe              N          1.9      BmLt S.T.
AjImm Stret                     N          0.3       Rut S.T.
Id=a Stree                      N          0.3    Bhlt S.T.
D: Street                       N          0.1      Bmkt S.T.
Ibqm Fad                        N          0.3      Bmalt S.T.
Podl Street                     N          0.2    BUilt S.T.
s       Str_t                   N          0.5    lEelt S.T.
Prdt Street                     N          0.6    Bhlt S.T.
Afle Stet                       N          0.2
laal Sqiare                     N          0.2      hiet S.T.
Fitmld Stt                      N          0.4       Sad Seal
Clmi Stret                      N     0.2510.15 Sad Sueljhelt S.T.
5htod OUajuil C2ty C.uii)                 11.3
1molfurSam Disrict chmoil
0 Dh                                                      ,
1tE  Ut  VAl                    W          2.9      s1011 S.T.         3-4   To be rewilt 1986 Mdma l't
Atltic lhnd                     V          4.2 Sd SealIhel S.T.        3    S5aUkg to be cmlted
85/86 F.H.ILP.
NM  Ao  St. Ly's hal            V          5.0 Sd SodlJ03l S.T.        3    3.2 Km requite reemliug.
BUm lBd                         V          3.2 Sad SwLAJSll S.T.       3-4
PipelP hWd                      W          1.8 Sad SwIIbfll S.T.        4    To be rebdlt 1966 Ued Wt
01d Cap            W                       ..1      Shll S.T.           3
Lid an                          V          0.6      helt S.T.           3)  Bhlt surface trueed
V L  imnt  Pid         W                   0.6       eidt S.T.          3)    es    (8.4 b  ot of 11.2 I=)
11e Pazhq                       U       2.8/1.8 Bmlt S.T./benl S.T.    3-3)   me  bullt Sn 1978 ad
lotu Ibr                        V       3.411.0 RBmt S.T./ShwU  S.T.    3-3)   the &rfae Sm in wry
hi palnt IBd                    V          1.4      heit S.T.           3)   good aditim.
S5ttal Itafku Ubm Dietrlct)                33J
____                                      236.9
February 1986



- 38-                      ANNEX 3-2
Pag- 1 of 4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Periodic Maintenance Program
Regravelling
AADT  Length    Divi-                    Fiscal Year (km)
Road Segment                    1984    km      sion       85/86   86/87 87788    88/89    89/90
(2nd Sem)
BY FORCE ACCOUNT
Essan-Kerevan                   250       28         N       28         -        -         -         -
Farafenni Area (Upgrading) 150/190         5      N/E         -         5        -         -         -
Brikama-Gunjur                   200      20         W        -        20        -         -         -
Sukuta-Jambanjali               100       15         W        -        15        -         -         -
Jambanjali-Sanyang               150       5         W        -         S        -         -         -
Sukuta-BTufut                   230        5         w        -         5        -         -         -
Sanyang-Gunjur                   100      10         W        -         -        10        -         -
La in-Makumbaya a/                80      11         W        -         -        11        -         -
Kvinella-Tendaba                  30       6         E        -         -         6        -         -
Mara Mayal-Sapu                   30       3         E         -        -         3        -         -
Basse Santa Su-Sabi               70      11         E        -         -        11        -         -
N'Jaba Kunda-Farafenni           150      34         N        -         -        14       18         -
Farafenni-Kaur                   190      36         E        -         -        -        33         -
Kaur-Kuntaur                     120      57         E        -         -        -         9        37
Total Force Account                                          28        50       55        60        37
BY CONTRACT
Basse Santa Su-Fatoto a/          50      40         E        -         -       30 
a/ To be financed under UNSO Project.
Source: MWC and UNSO
WAPTI
February 1986



ANNEX 3-2
- 39 -                           Page 2 of 4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Periodic Maintenance Program
Gravel Roads to be Patched and Reshaped
Road Segment            ADDT   Length    Divi-          Fiscal    Year   (Km)
1984    (kn)      sion    85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90
(2nd Sem)
Basse-Sabi                70        11      E        -        11      X       -      -
Basse Santa Su-Fatoto    50         40       E       -        40      X       X      -
Mora-Mayal-Sapu           30         3       E       -         3      X       -      -
Kwinella-Tendaba          30         6       E       -         6      X       -      -
N'Jaba Kunda-Farafenni  150         34      N        -        32      X       X      -
Farafenni-Kaur           190        36      E        -         -      -       X      -
Brufut-Tanji             100        10      W        -        10     10      10     10
Janji-Tuering            100         4      W        -         4      4       4      4
Tujering-Sanyang         100         7      W        -         7      7       7      7
Brikama-Jambanjali       100        10      W        -        10     10      10     10
Kaur-Kuntaur             120        57      E        -         -     57      25      X
Sotuma-Sire-Gambissara   20          7      E        -         -      7       -      7
Kerewan-N'Jaba Kunda    150         23      N        -         -      -      23      -
Kerewan-Jowara            50        10      N        -         -     10      10      -
Sankandi-Kenaba           25        22      E        -         -     22      -      22
Sanyang-Sanyang Beach    50          4      W        -         -      4      4       4
Gunjur-Kartung           100         8      W        -         -      8       8      8
Kuntaur-Georgetown       190        22      E        -         -      -       -     22
Choya-Dankuku             10        10      E        -         -      -      10      -
Dankuku-Jessadi           10        11       E       -         -      -      11      -
Gunjur-Gunjur Beach       50         2      W        -         -      -       2      2
Kartung-Kartung Beach    50          3      W        -         -      -       3      3
Jambanjali-Sanyang       150         5      W        -         -      -       5      5
Subtotal (Northern)                                  -       32      42     33       -
Subtotal (Eastern)                                   -       60      60     46      51
Subtotal (Western)                                   -        31     43     53      53
Total                                                -       123    145    132    104
Note: X indicates year in which general regravelling is scheduled.
Source: M`C
WAPT1
February 1986



- 40 -                                   Annez 3-2
ME GLMff
ReasmUt  of NatdLmul  7eo
yewe  c mom                                           e
Yesr     Surfm ls   e
Bof Suction        Laitd     hAN      Bilt or      Shul   Buiat
NS      1984     R    _nmM     KU.      us      85/86    86/87    87/88      88/89      89/90
Nhdm    Lvla                                                            (2hl Sei
1  Izd PAW4    1,92                        Vwie          4        -         -         -        c        -          -
mnnjul-S.rehmila           11   102,00     Varil        11        -         C         C        -        -          -
Iura-Smmngl Iorder         20      780      1968        20                       - -  -        _    _     _
1cm1 nD1VISMi
_mi*auIa-l~z~.             11    3,600      1971         11        -        -         -      9.4        _          _
1I _-BrJa                  11    1.800    1968-74        11        -        -         -        -        C          -
lldla1~                   100      540    1963-78       100        -        -         8        8        17         C
SuKubS-aim1ta               5       -      Vaies          5        -        -       2.7        -        -          -
1m  Bi-Seleti              13      110    1984-85        13        -        -         -        -        -          _
1m & import  huRomd   3             -       1973          2        1        -         -        2        -          -
KAW-om                     46      480    1968-80        46        -        -        20       20        -          -
SOMW41mmme                194      310    198D-82         -      194        -         -        -       60a/        60 a/
Yon         B      _i AxW&Cmga  5   -       1982          -        5        -         -        -        -          -
Trm-G_ bla R4uy            24      780      1964          -       24        -         -        -        -          -
ToU.1                                                                       0      30.7     39.4       77         60
C: Sdhium  for reinfarcit or cmtzwtlm
!y Fag S.1 Only
Sn:re: NIC
Febzary 1986



*15HX 3-2
- 41-                           Page4 of A
12E GAMfrA
S9XN HIG0 EY UnNMOM PRlntT
Pexiclic  lnme  r
PRmmIh  Progm on local Bob aJ
Year    Surface Type            Fiscal  Year (km)
Length AADT Built or Shell Basalt
Road Segment            km    1984  Resealed    km      km     85/86  86/87   87/88 88/89 89/90
(Approx)     -(2nd Se.T
Kanifing Urban District
Latri Kunda Road                2.9   3000   Varies       Varies          -      C       -      -     -
Atlantic Road                   4.4   2500   Varies       Varies          -      -       -    2.0    -
Bakau Rev Town Road             2.8   2500    1982       2.8     -        -      -      2.8    -      -
New Kombo St. Mary's Roads      2.4    500    1978        Varies          -     2.4      -      -     -
Bakau Road                      3.2   2000   1975-77      Varies          -     2.0      -      -     -
Pipe Line Road                  3.8   5000   Varies       Varies          -      C       -      -     -
Old Cape Road                   3.1   1500   1976-79   3.1       -        -     3.1       -     -     -
Link Road                       0.6    500    1978       -      0.6       -     0.6      -      -     -
Kololi Point Road               0.6    500    1978       -      0.6       -     0.6      -            -
Badala Parkway                  4.6   2500   1972-78   1.8      2.8       -     4.6      -      -     -
Motu Stream Road                4.4   2000   1972-78   0.9      3.5       -     3.5      -      -     -
Kotu Point Road                 1.4    500    1978       -      1.4       -     1.4      -      -     -
Total                                                                     0    18.2  bl 2.8   2.0   0.0
C: Scheduled for reinforcement or construction.
aI No provisions for Banjul City Streets as all streets will require reconstruction after
sewerage project.
b/ Fog seal only on 8.9 km.
Source: HUC
VAPTI
February 1986



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-3
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Equipment Procurement Summary
Description           Estimated                    Delivery  Requirements
Unit Cost           December 1986           September 1987
No.Units       Cost     No. Units      Cost
(US$'000)                 (Us  O00)                (UII'000)
A. THROUGH ICB (EEC Financed)
Twin Cabin Pickup                   10             5           50         -
Bulldozer (140 HP)                 120             1          120         1            120
Motograder (125 HPI,                70             2          140          1            70
Tipper Truck (7T) -  1/             25             5          125         9            225
Water Tanker (7000L) -              35             2           70         3            105
Steel Wheel Roller                  45             1           45         -              -
Towed Fuel Tanker                    8             2           16         -              _
Vibratory Plate Comp.                3             3            9         -              -
Pedestrian Roller                    5             2           10         -              -
Sub-total Equipment                               23         585         14            520
Inital Stock of Spare Parts                                    30                       30
Total Through ICB                                             615                      550
B. THROUGH INTERNATIONAL
SHOPPING (IDA Financed)
Vibro-Compactor (SP200A-1OT)        60             -            -         1             60
Pneum.Compactor (Hyster C530A)    45               1           45         -              -
Fuel Tanks (7000L-14,OOOL)           4             4           16         -               -
Manual Emulsion Sprayer              1             2            2         -              -
Communication Sets & Generators    3               6           18         -              -
Miscellaneous (Mopeds,Bicycs.etc)                  -           20         -             10
Sub-total Equipment                               13          101         1             70
Initial Stock of Spare Parts                                    4                        5
Total Through Shopping                                        105                       75
C. THROUGH UNSO
Agricultural Tractor (65HP)         13             3           39         -
Tipping Trailers (4m9)               3             3            9         -
Sub-total Equipment                                6          48          -
Initial Stock of Spare Parts                                    5         -
Total Through UNSO                                             53
1/ Unified Bid.
Source: MWC
WAPTI
February 1986



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 6
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Road Maintenance Management
Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the technical assistance are:
(i)  Assist  MWC  in  carrying  out  the  planned  maintenance
reorganization;
(ii)  Ensure efficient and cost-effective management of road
maintenance activities;
(i)  Train managers, engineers and technicians to carry out
their various functions, with the objective that all road
and equipment maintenance management and operating
functions can be carried out independently by MWC from
the beginning of FY88/89.
Scope
2.        The technical assistance will assist and advise MWC in imple-
menting the four year road maintenance program.  In particular,  the
following tasks will be carried out:
'i)  implement the cost and performance system designed under
the First Project:
(ii)  assist the regional Divisions and Headquarters in plan-
ning the execution and the monitoring of field operations
for routine and periodic maintenance of roads;
(iii) assist PWD in preparing quarterly and annual estimates of
local budget requirements for operating costs of the roa;
maintenance program;
(iv)  assist in setting up the statements of completed mainte-
nance work for reimbursement of the Project and Special
Accounts;
(v)  assist the workshop operations by carrying out periodic
field inspections of the road maintenance equipment and
vehicles and by supervising shop and field repairs;
(vi)  assist  in  the  project's  procurement  of  equipment
vehicles, spare parts, bitumen, fuel, etc., including
preparation of bidding documents and subsequent bid
evaluations;



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 6
(vii) ensure that proper accounting practices are followed at
the workshop, in the regional divisions, field units, and
headquarters for road equipment and maintenance, and
related activities;
(viii) computerize the spare parts inventory management system,
financial, cost accounting and monitoring functions;
(ix)  provide on the job training to managerial, office and
field personnel of NWC (headquarters, workshop, divisions
and field units).
Technical Assistance Services
3.        The technical assistance team will consists of:
(i) a highway engineer and team leader (25 months)
(ii)  an accounting expert (24 months)
(iii)  a road foreman (21 months)
(iv)  a master mechanic fo_ the Kotu Workshop (25 months)
(v) a field mechanic for the Kotu Workshop and the field
inspections and repairs (25 months)
(vi)  short term visits by specialists (5 months).
The technical assistance team will be engaged full time until mid-1988
with periodic visits over following two years to monitor implementation
of program and to run upgrading courses.
Work Description and Qualification
4.        Particular  functions  and  qualifications  of  the  technical
assistants are described below:
A. Highway Engineer and Team Leader
The Team Leader will assist and advise the Chief Engineer of
MWC. In particular he will:
(i) update yearly, and as required, the four year maintenance
program and supervise its implementation;
(ii)  analyze the cost and performance data of the field units
every three months and make recommendations to improve
the performance of the field units, and also review the
standard outputs and standard costs used to reimburse the
Project and Special Accounts;



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 6
(iii) prepare manuals of standard procedures for road superin-
tendents and road foreman, and provide on the job train-
ing to MWC engineers and supervisors;
(iv)  coordinate the activities of the field units and the
intervention of the technical assistance;
(v)  carry out at least on a quarterly basis field inspections
to verify the accuracy of the job reporting;
(vi)  countersign the work accomplishments statements prepared
for the reimbursement of the Project and Special
Accounts;
(vii)  countersign the monthly revolving fund financial state-
ments of the Project and Special Accounts;
(viii) prepare quarterly progress reports reviewing accomplish-
uents, presenting project statistical data, general
outlook for following quarter and important project
schedule revisions; including provision of other data
required by MWC, IDA and cofinanciers.
(ix)  assist the Government in procurement matters;
(x)  assist in the planning, construction and monitoring of
the test sections for the experimental low cost paving of
gravel roads;
(xi)  participate  in the transportation planning activities
which complement the Second Highway Maintenance Project;
(xii) submit a final report summarizing the accomplishments
with all relevant data in accordance with IDA require-
ments; and
(xiii) by July 1, 1988, prepare in consultation with the
relevant counterparts detailed procedures for effective
takeover of the above activities, and assist other team
members in preparing detailed procedures for their
counterparts.
5.        The expert should be a well qualified highway engineer with at
least ten years post-qualification experience and five years of
experience in managing and supervising bituminous and laterite road
maintenance work. He should have some experience in Sub Sahara Africa.
B. Accounting Expert
6.        The accounting expert will be assigned to MWC and will assist
the headquarters units, field divisions and the workshop. He will:



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 6
(i)  assist the division engineers in implementing the cost
and performance system prepared under the First Highway
Maintenance Project and in preparing monthly statements
of work performed;
(ii)  assist MWC in preparing monthly claims for the reimburse-
ment of the Project and Special Accounts established for
the project financing;
(iii) assist MWC in preparing monthly reconciliations of the
Project and Special Accounts;
(iv)  assist the Chief Mechanical Engineer in the implementa-
tion of the management system of the Mechanical
Engineering Division and more specifically ensure that
all the required accounting documents are prepared and
processed, and make proposals to remedy any deficiencies;
{v)  if required, prepare inventory control procedures for MWC
divisions and headquarters;
(vi)  assist as required with the development of software for
computerizing the accounting functions, the inventory
management and the cost and performance accounting
system.
7.        The expert should have full accounting qualifications and, at
least, five years of accounting experience and must be able to set up
accounting systems in the specific offices of MWC.
C. Road Foreman
8.        The  expert will  be  assigned to the routine  and periodic
maintenance field units of MWC. He will:
(i)  supervise  the operations of the periodic and routine
maintenance units and ensure accurate, concise and
precise work reporting;
(ii)  participate in the analysis of the cost and performance
data and the review of the standard outputs and standard
costs used to reimburse the Special Account;
(iii) provide on-the-job training to the road foremen and
equipment operators;
tiv) participate to the quarterly field inspections conducted
by headquarters to verify the accuracy of the job
reporting;
tv)  participate  in  the  development   of  detailed  work
schedules.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 6
9.        The road foreman should be a well qualified highway technician
with at least three years of field experience in Sub Sahara Africa. He
should be familiar with regravelling and resealing operations, and
routine maintenance techniques for bituminous and laterite roads.
D. Master Mechanic
10.       The expert will be assigned to the Kotu Workshop to advise and
assist the MED Senior Mechanical Superintendent (Plant and Trucks) in
carrying out his functions. In particular, he will:
(i)  assist the operations of the Inspection and Diagnosis
Section, the Plant/Trucks Repair Section and the Special-
ized Shop Sections;
(ii) provide on-the-job training to the superintendents and
foremen involved in the above sections;
(iii) assist in establishing and reviewing the minimum and
maximum inventory levels for the fast moving spare parts
and supervise the preparation of the spare parts lists
for the repair of broken down equipment and for the
preventative maintenance of equipment;
11.       The expert should be a well qualified mechanic with at least
five years of managerial experience in workshops for highway maintenance
equipment. He should be able to give on-the-job training to personnel
to become qualified mechanics.
E. Senior Mechanic for Field Operations
12.       The expert will be based at the Kotu Workshop and will be
rotated to the field operations of the Kotu Workshop which will include
the mobile field workshop and the regional workshops at Hansa Konko and
Basse.  He will assist and advise the MED mechanical inspectors in
carrying out their functions. In particular, he will:
(i)  conduct periodic field inspections of the heavy equipment
and heavy vehicles to ensure that the scheduled mainte-
nance operations are performed and to evaluate the
equipment condition. Those inspections will be conducted
together with the designated equipment and heavy vehicle
field inspector(s) to whom he will provide assistance and
on-the-job training.
(ii) conduct together with the designated field inspector(s)
on call inspections of broken down equipment and either
effect on the spot repairs, recommend field repair or
return of the equipment to the Kotu Workshop for repairs.
(iii) provide on-the-job training of superintendents and
foremen in the Plant/Truck Repair Section and the



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 6
Specialized Shop Sections at Koti, and the Satellite
Workshops of MED.
13.       The expert should be a well qualified mechanic with at least
two years managerial experience.
Source: VWC and Mission
WAPT1
February 1986



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for MED Workshop Management
Background
1.        Under a USAID financed project, a new Central Workshop to be
managed by MWC's Mechanical Engineering Division (MED) is being built at
Kotu. The new workshop is expected to be functional by mid-1986. USAID
consultants have prepared procedures for equipment and vehicle mainte-
nance and for training of MED personnel. In order to assist MED manag-
ers to efficiently operate the new workshops after the completion of
USAID assistance in September 1986, a mechanical engineer and a
storeman/supply technician with at least 10 years of experience in
managing workshops and spare parts warehousing for heavy equipment and
vehicles will be engaged over a one-year period full time with periodic
visits over the following two years.
Objectives
2.        The main objectives of the technical assistance are:
(a) ensure efficient and cost-effective management of the Central
Workshop at Kotu; and
(b) train managers and technicians to carry out their various
functions, with the objective that all workshop functions can
be carried out independently by MED from the beginning of
FY88/89.
Scope
3.        The Mechanical Engineer will advise and assist the Senior
Mechanical Engineer (SME) on day-to-day operations of MED both in the
Central Workshop and the field Divisions. He will also support the
Chief Mechanical Engineer (CME) in policy, planning and budgeting
activities and in developing an annual work plan and the annual esti-
mates. His primary concern is management of the on-going work of MNED
and ensuring through the responsible Senior Superintendents that sched-
ules are met and that quality standards of work performance are upheld.
The specific responsibilities of the Senior Mechanical Engineer, as
delegated to him by the CME, are:
(a) Preparation of detailed inputs to the annual work plan. This
includes:
- Shop workload projections;
- Staffing requirements;
- Equipment, spare parts & material needs;
- Budgetary estimates of costs.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 4
(b) Shop Operations.
The SME is responsible for ensuring that the on-going opera-
tions of the Division operate effectively. This includes:
- Acceptance and inspection of vehicle & plant equipment
for work;
- Identification of actual work required and assignment
of priorities;
- Issuance of job orders and assignment of lead
responsibility to a specific senior superintendent;
Ensuring that proper records and cost information are
kept on each job order and that proper spare parts are
on hand or ordered (within the limitaticas of the
Division budget);
- Follow-up on job orders to be sure they are not delayed
for insufficient reason;
- Continual communication with hls immediate
subordinates, the Senior Superintendents, to identify
potential problems and plan to solve them. In
particular, conduct periodic meetings with these Senior
Superintendents to reduce the amount of time spent
"fire fighting" and identify chronic and common
problems;
- Work with the other supervisors and tradesman as
necessary to solve technical problems affecting quality
of work or timeliness of completion of work;
- Conduct on-the-job training of his senior supervisors
in planning, job scheduling, costing of jobs and
supervisory techniques such as appraisal of personnel;
- Establish work standards (time and quality) for each
specific type of shop operation and ensure that these
are met. These work standards would necessarily be
developed jointly with his superintendents;
- Forewarn the CME of possible areas of future problems
and recommend appropriate action to be taken;
- Contribute to the morale of the work force by
continually keeping them informed of important actions
going on in the Department (such as the building of the
new shops) and periodic status reports. Inform all
stall of promotions;
- Ensure that safety precautions are enforced,
particularly in danger areas;
- Ensure that standards of orderliness and cleanliness
are maintained throughout the shops;
- Work with the Training Officer to plan to obtain
certification for qu&lified tradesmen under the
National Skills Testing and Certification Scheme;
- Recommend employment, promotions, transfers,
terminations based on inputs from his supervisors;
- Conduct performance appraisals of all staff in the MED
through normal supervisory channels.
- Assume whatever delegated authority the CME is prepared
to give him as regards the technical operations of the



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 4
Division. Follow established regulations affecting
work of the Division.
4.        The Mechanical  Engineer  should  have  a  strong  automotive
equipment maintenance background and technical knowledge regarding all
shop operations.  Should have positive leadership qualities and be a
good communicator. Should be able to instill a sense of loyalty and
common purpose to the SME, supervisors, tradesmen and apprentices in the
Division  through  personal  example.   He  should  have  a  degree  in
Mechanical Engineering plus formal study in shop management and
supervisory techniques.
5.        The  Storeman/Supply Technician will  advise  and assist  the
Senior Stores Superintendent on organization and day-to-day operations
of the spares stores section of MED. This involves planning and sched-
uling of the work; preparing annual budgetary estimates based on the
forecasts of automotive and plant spares supplies needs and inventory
records. The Senior Stores Superintendent is specifically responsible
for on-the-job training with guidance and support from the Training
Officer. He will assist in the removal of unserviceable and redundant
spares stores, and will advise the Head Storekeeper on advance needs
for procurement of spares. The specific responsibilities of the Senior
Stores Superintendent are:
(a) Work Planning
- Provide inputs to the Senior Mechanical Engineer's
annual plans upon based projections of spare parts
requirements;
- Maintain adequate records based on physical inventories
of the actual spare parts situation so that his
forecasts are based on firm data;
(b) Work Assignment, Monitoring and Control
- Maintain records of all activities assigned to MED
spares and stores activity. Follow up on spare parts
matters with his supervisory staff to eliminate delays
and ensure support;
- Work in close coordination with Senior Mechanical
Engineer and associate senior supervisory staff. Must
also have a close working relationship with the
Production Control Engineer to explain or resolve spare
parts problems;
- Must maintain a close link with MWC Supply and Accounts
Branches in resupply and stores accountability
functions.
(c) Personnel Management
- Recommend promotions, transfers, terminations for his
staff after consultations with the individual's
immediate supervisor;
- Work with the Training Officer to plan a long range
program of apprentice/tradesman upgrading, using the



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 4
"Modules of Employable Skill - MES" approach;
- Conduct on-the-job training of his superintendents
based on guidance from the Training Officer. In
particular ensure good communication within his
organization and open discussion of problem areas;
- Conduct frequent safety and health hazard inspections
of his stores areas and take steps necessary to
eliminate deficiencies;
- Hold regular staff meetings with his subordinates to
review problems, listen to suggestions for work
improvement, improve morale;
- Work within the authority specifically delegated to
him by the Senior Mechanical Engineer;
- Work within existing Government Regulations, Public
Service Commission Rules and other prescribed National
procedures.
6.        The Storeman/Supplies Technician should have qualifications in
Automotive Supply Management. He should also have strong supervisory
experience in automotive repair and maintenance shop and additional
experience in stores operations similar to those of MED. Demonstrated
leadership and ability to communicate is most important.
Source: MWC and Mission
WAPT1
February 1986



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Personnel Development Program for MWC
Terms of Reference for Management and Training Assistance
Background
1.        The Status of Manpower Capability and Personnel Management
within the PWD is briefly described as follows:
(a)  Major  manpower  weaknesses  exist  at  the  mid-management,
supervisory, and technician levels, while severe overstaffing
exists among semi- and unskilled workers (grade levels 4 and
5).   This  shortage  of managerial  skills,  coupled with an
excess of unskilled staff has a serious negative effect on
productivity.
(b)  Staff  morale  and  dedication  are  lacking.   There  are  no
inzentives to increase work output, salaries are low (between
D400 to D700/month for senior technical grade levels 10 to
14), promotions are often political, and there is little
recognition for increasing job skills through training.
(c) Productivity in the workshops is stated to be about 20% and is
pri.narily due to a large surplus of levels 4 and 5 staff, lack
of spare parts, and poor shop management and supervision.
General indications are that only about 25% of the workshop
staff are properly trained for their job positions.
(d) Illiteracy is a major problem at the lower job levels, and is
a moderate problem up to the middle level positions. Many
lower level, and some mid-level supervisors are functionally
illiterate, which poses serious problems vis-a vis job
upgrading and training. A Non-Formal Training Division within
the Ministry of Education has been established to assist the
ministries and other organizations with literacy training, but
the MWC has yet to take advantage of this service.
2.        While considerable efforts are being made to correct some of
these  problems   through   training  and  technical  assistance,   the
integration of personnel management policies coupled with appropriate
training at all levels has not been fully applied to MWC operations. In
this regard, a concerted effort will be made during the Second Highway
Maintenance Project to link manpower policies and tiaining with the
primary objective of increasing productive output and capability within
the MWC.
3.        As  shown in  the  attached  flow chart  (Attachment  1),  the
project training component will have two major objectives. The first
objective Is the improved management and efficient use of MWC personnel



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 4
which will be accomplished primarily through effective personnel
management policies and procedures. The second objective will seek to
improve MWC staff productivity through various training and upgrading
programs. The first objective involves decisions and follow-up actions
that do not require financial inputs, while the second objective will
require financial inputs.
The Piogram
4.        Improved Management and Efficient Use of Personnel will be
accomplished through streamlining the work force and enhancement of
career advancement policies and procedures for skilled technical,
supervisory, and managerial staff.  These objectives will be achieved
through:
(a) a planned reduction of semi- and unskilled workers to
appropriate levels in relation to MWC manpower requirements
and ability to support these workers with materials,
equipment, and productive work assignments. This work force
reduction should be implemented through:
(i)  the   establishment   of   retirement   incentives   and
compensation policies for redundant staff, and
(ii) a freeze on the hiring of semi- and unskilled workers
until such time as there is a shortage of qualified
personnel at these levels;
(b)  the  gradual  replacement  of unqualified  and/or untrainable
senior and mid-level staff with qualified personnel from
outside the organization. This modification of the personnel
structure should be implemented through:
(i)  the   establishment   of   retirement   incentives   and
compensation policies for senior and mid-level staff, and
(ii)  active  recruitment  of  senior  and  mid-level  staff
replacements,   including   employment   incentives   for
qualified candidates.
(c) the improvement of career advancement policies and procedures
for  promotion  within  the  organization.   This  should  be
implemented through:
Mi) the establishment of job requirements and qualification
as a prerequisite for promotion to each job position, and
(ii) recognition of education and training achievements as
part of the necessary requirements to career advancement
and job promotions.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 4
5.        Improvement Management Capability and Staff Productivity in
MWC will be accomplished by improving staff qualifications, knowledge,
and skills at all job levels through the implementation of the following
training activities:
(a) The further development and implementation of in-house
training capability to include:
(i)  the establishment of an annual training budget  to be
administered by the Training Officer,
(ii)  improving and increasing the functions of the Training
Committee, comprising the Training Officer and heads of
departments,    uoder    the    Under    Secretary    for
administration,
(iii) the establishment of a functional literacy program in
cooperation with the Ministry of Education,
(iv)  the continued development and implementation of released
time in-house training courses,
(v)  a titrain the trainers" program for senior staff so that
they can train their subordinates in released time
courses and on-the-job instruction,
(vi)  the   development   of   organized   on-the-job   training
activities, and
(vii) the procurement of training aids and equipment.
(b) Increased use of in-country training capability at GTTI and
MDI to include:
{i)  the selection of trainees and scheduling of courses in
technical and management subject areas,
(ii)  the  development  of  special  courses  related  to  MWC
training needs, and
(iii) the procurement of training aids and equipment needed to
conduct MWC courses at GTTI and MDI. This equipment will
be stored and maintained by GTTI and MDI for MWC.
(c)  Advanced  training  for  qualified  senior  management  and
technical staff to include:
(i) the selection and scheduling of candidates to attend
seminars and work/study programs at public works agencies
and manufacturers' training centers outside the country.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 4
6.        Financing of the project training component will encompass
those items in paragraph (5) above as shown in Attachment 2.
Technical Assistance
7.        To  assist  in  the  development  and  implementation  of  MWC
reorganization and training activities, management training specialists
will be engaged under the project to work with MWC's senior staff and
Training Officer starting mid-1986.   The terms of reference for the
Management  and  Training  Assistance  are  given  in  Attachment 3.   In
particular the Training Advisor will assist the MWC Training Officer
with the following tasks and activities:
(a)  establishment  and  impl'mentation  of  an  in-house  literacy
program in cooperation with the Ministry of Education;
(b) development and implementation of in-house upgrading courses,
workshops, and seminars;
(c) development and coordination of special courses to be
conducted at GTTI and MDI;
(d) specification and procurement of training aids and equipment
to be used in-house and at GTTI and MDI;
(e) preparation and implementation of "train the trainer" courses
for MWC staff who will be training subordinates;
(f)  development   and   implementation   of   on-the-job   training
activities with measurable objectives;
(g) preparation of annual training budget;
(h) preparation of semi-annual manpower and training reports;
(i) coordination with the MWC training committee;
(j) identification and selection of appropriate highway agencies
and equipment manufacturers' training centers to be used for
advanced overseas training for senior MWC staff;
(k)  testing, selection, and scheduling of trainee candidates for
in-house, local in-country, and overseas training activities;
(1) review, evaluation, modification, and improvement of the
training programs as required during the course of the
project.
WAPT1
February 1986



- 57 -
ARM 3-6
q                                 ~~~~~~~~~Attabu:t I
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Training Objectives: Flow Chart
99- ~    -r
VAJC.HCar   ~ LCEb4     (i)     . _ tIb -_           -
T0 AI.I ~ ~ ~ ~ ALSJLx P3-(ff .A
_) OF s.iPRvW. sur.t
i  -gs  rASus" 
l WsJLJ           - WPIul '5
Ciri us                  ARIKu
_' a.  G i)  buC st .lbj4i
()                      L(Vi) - OP-A
P  .                  CL4   BP C       US  RLC
%WM-. mvbVat Pab *ctP,I
To AkWX  S3-
Juty~~~~ ~ ~ 1985S ut"^
- ' PPNV ii _lz 4t F<o
Gii) -s R L;4 urt13j
ILb"LpwT  Gv)  C4DWAAP f96              sutNAcr
AU     or    _ rm  cgp w-sc        --r|itAblbr
IUi tioCr    .-% _ IHi Lk          _mt       tJ
rE0 LAI l    %Jr
5                            ~~~~~~~~~~G)  es
_ o     swr <>.-  ~~~~~li bfXob  .              =L             [    ^
C            _    es,  = _ W-CLV CII               =TTT, * MD1       _   wAz0IW1
i At SWIP,C  ,-1xm  _  %^L -Ft
| rA_ | | CaJD,DI& r .
OF SWC,  I    I 1,lwuvv       ,tss     l  * 
WAPT1                                            XSb4
July 1985



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Upgrading MWC
Offices. Training Materials and Courses
---     - USS 1000-
Local       Foreign        Total
a) Equipment and materials for MWC headquarters
and Provincial Offices                                      10             35          45
b) Training aids and equipment for MWC's
internal training                                            0            10           10
c) Tuition and instruction costs of GTTI and
MDI for training MWC staff                                  50              0          50
d) Training aids and equipment for MWC use at
CITI and MDI                                                 0            40           40
e) Allowances for MWC's intructors and
relocated trainees                                          10             0           10
f) Tuition, travel and living expenses for
overseas seminars and courses for SWC staff                  0             25          25
Total Base Cost                                             70            110         180
Source: SIC and Mission
WAPEl
February 1986



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 10
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Management and Training Assistance
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Second Highway Maintenance Project includes a management
and training package which is a part of other technical assistance to
the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) for institutional
strengthening.
2.        The  training program  represents  an  expansion  of existing
training activities being carried out by MWC. The management assistance
program is a follow-up on the reorganization recommended during the
project preparation phase.
3.        The training program includes:
--   strengthening of the MWC Training Committee
-   consolidation of the existing training structure
--   training of road managers and technicians
training   of   mechanical   managers/supervisors   and
technicians
--   increasing use of in-country training capability
--   training abroad for selected MWC-staff
4.        The management program includes:
--   implementing the recommended reorganization
-- assistance of MWC top- and middle-level management in
carrying out daily tasks
management training to enhance planning, coordination and
monitoring
II. OBJECTIVES
5.        The objectives of the technical assistance service for train-
ing will consist of assisting MWC in:



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 10
(a) strengthening the existing training structure within the
Ministry; and
(b) designing and implementing training programs aimed at produc-
ing qualified personnel who can carry out independently road
maintenance and equipment maintenance as well as workshop and
other operating functions from the beginning of FY88-89.
6.        The objective of the management assistance program is to
assist MWC staff in carrying out their duties in all matters for which
MWC is responsible with particular reference to the highway subsector.
Assistance will be given in strengthening procedures within MWC, such as
delegation, coordination and reporting.
III. SCOPE AND SERVICES
A. Scope of Training Assistance
7.        The main activities will consist of:
(a) advising on all aspects of training and training programs;
(b)  supervision of gap-analysis (present vs. required capability)
of all personnel within MWC, in particular personnel in
workshop and road maintenance, in order to specify training
needs;
(c) supervision of the design of sound training programs which
will give, apart from highlighting road maintenance and
workshop management also considerable attention to reduction
of illiteracy and enhancement of basic management and supervi-
sory skills;
(d) coordination and supervision of the work of Road Maintenance
and Workshop Management Consultants responsible for conducting
on-the-job and counterpart training of MWC road and mechanical
personnel;
(e) supervision of coordination between technical experts MWC
headquarters and field staff; and
(f) periodic evaluation and reporting on progress of training
activities.
8.        The functional character of this program will require that the
aims relating to the number of personnel trained for different job
categories be in line with current and future needs of the road/equip-
ment maintenance operations set by MWC. The success of training will
depend upon: the comitment and support given to it by MWC management,
the design of a sound program and thorough coordination and supervision
of agreed training activities to be carried out by MWC and coordination



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 10
of parties concerned to ensure that appropriate resources are available.
The success of the training program will be measured by the ability of
MWC staff to perform their job functions at acceptable standards without
the supervision of the technical assistance specialists.
B. Scope of Management Assistance
9.        The main activities will consist of:
(a) assisting in implementing the proposed reorganization of MWC;
(b) assisting in arranging procedures for preparing adequate and
detailed budgets for departments and emergency projects;
(c) assisting in drafting overall and detailed programs (yearly.
quarterly, monthly and weekly) for all activities;
(d) assisting in monitoring and periodic evaluations of activities
and holding of regular meetings at different management
levels;
(e) setting up and assisting in implementing simple reporting
systems;
(f) assisting in set-up and implementation of a financial manage-
ment information system according to the accounting system
set-up under the road maintenance management assistance and
establishing links with the accounts section of the Ministry
of Finance to keep systems up to date;
(g) assisting in set-up and implementation of all other necessary
management information systems; and
(h) giving in-house management training.
C. Technical Assistance
10.       The technical assistance team will consist of:
(a) a public works management expert (team leader);
(b) a specialist in clerical support and logistics in public
works; and
(c) a training advisor.
Actual training is done by the technical specialists under the road
maintenance management program and the workshop management assistance
program. To this effect the training assistance can count on the
following experts for conducting training on a part time basis:



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 10
td) a highway engineer and a road foreman; and
(e) a master mechanic, mechanical superintendent, mechanical
engineer and storeman/supplies technician.
Each team member mentioned under a, b, and c will have a counterpart
assigned  to him/her.   The  counterparts will work  closely with  the
experts and are supposed to be the executing part of the team. It has
to be prevented as much as possible that team members take over line
functions in MWC, except in case of emergencies. The MWC countelparts
for the team will be for:
team member a - the Director of Technical Services
team member b - the Chief of the Administrative Division
team member c - the Training Officer
The periods in which the team will be available are as follows:
-- public works management expert, ten months and periodic
visits over following two years, totalling 14 man months.
--   specialist in clerical support and logistics, six months
and periodic visits over the following year, totalling
nine man months.
-    training advisor,  inception period of two months and
short visits of two to three weeks each during a period
of four years, totalling six man months.
11.       In addition, the NWC will take steps to ensure the following:
(a) assignment of counterparts as indicated above;
(b) the strengthening of the Training Committee consisting of
divisional managers headed by the Under Secretary for
administration, whose main functions would be to define
training policies, determine the areas of training, and assist
in programming the implementation of training activities as
required;
(c) issuing an effective policy statement on career development
and training;
(d) consolidating existing training activities managed by the
Training Officer responsible for preparing, implementing,
supervising and evaluating all training activities;
(e) the creation of a Planning Committee, consisting of heads of
departments, directors and divisional managers headed by the



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 5 of 10
Permanent Secretary or one of his Under Secretaries who will
meet regularly (at least every quarter) to plan, coordinate
and monitor all MWC operations. The management expert will be
invited for these meetings;
(f) formal changes in MWC organizational structure as agreed upon
after the recommendations and the following discussions on the
reorganization study during the project preparation phase;
(g) make adequate arrangements for the selection of suitable staff
to be trained as instructors and for releasing existing and
future staff, in a timely manner, to attend agreed training
programs;
(h) provide classroom and workshop facilities for the training of
mechanical staff at the Kotu Workshop;
(i) provide office and training equipment and materials and spare
parts as required for program implementation; and
(j) provide annual funds and any other resources required for
implementation of the agreed training program.
IV. WORK DESCRIPTION AND QUALIFICATIONS OF EXPERTS
A. Public Works Management Expert
12.       The expert will assist and advise the top level management
team of MWC.  In particular he/she will:
-- prepare and assist in implementing the agreed changes in
structure and procedures of the organization of MWC.
--   inform and discuss with key persons in MWC the changes
and hence the expected developments in job performance.
arrange that medium- and long-term plans and activities
will be discussed and decided on in good time through the
Planning Committee.
-- arrange that periodic meetings will be held on every
management level to coordinate activities and will attend
these meetings on advisory basis.
-- implement a reporting system for every department/divi-
sion which ensures that necessary information reaches the
necessary management level.
-- design and assist the divisions in implementing manage-
ment information systems which enables every manager to
Si'



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 6 of 10
get insight, in good time, of the progress which is made
by his unit with regard to available budgets.
--   provide in-house management training in:
*    management techniques
*    budgetting/planning
*    discussion techniques
*    project management, etc.
through personal assistance, case-studies, courses and
other training activities.
-    report periodically on progress that has been made and
discuss the reports at the relevant management level.
The expert should be a well qualified public works manager, preferably a
civil engineer with at least five years' experience in public works
management and extensive experience in management of organizations in
development countries, preferably sub-Sahara Africa.
B. Specialist in Clerical Support and Logisticb in Public
Works
13.       The  clerical  specialist  will  assist  the  Administrative
Division of NWC. In particular he/she will:
-    design and assist the division in implementing an inte-
grated registry for MWC, by creating:
*    personnel registry
*    project files
*    correspondence files
*    registry of incoming and outgoing post, etc.
-    design and assist in implementing a budgetting system to
enable NWC to claim adequately and on time the necessary
budgets for the next fiscal year.
-    design and assist in implementing a system for timely
provision and monitoring of warrants for every divi-
sion/department.
-    arrange and assist in implementing the upgrading of MWC
headquarters and efficient regrouping of offices for



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 7 of 10
management and other personnel, creation of meeting room,
etc.
--   evaluate the systems one year after implementation and
give advice on necessary alterations.
-- write manuals on the necessary procedures needed to get
these systems working.
--   provide in-house training in
*    filing and reg, dtering
*    reporting
*    etc.
through personal assistance, case-studies, courses and
other training activities.
The clerical specialist shou'd have public administration experience
with at least five years in clerical support and logistics in public
organizations.   He/she  should  have  some  experience  in  developing
countries, preferably sub-Sahara Africa.
C. Training Advisor
14.       The Training Advisor will assist the Training Officer in
preparing a detailed program and schedule of activities to meet the
training needs of NWC personnel and will assist inter alia to:
Phase I
(a) prepare an inventory of all relevant staff to be involved with
road and equipment maintenance, broken down by categories and
levels, headquarters and field offices;
(b) assess the capability of existing maintenance personnel and
determine (additional skills and knowledge required) their
training needs;
(c) provide MWC's management with a list of personnel requiring
training and upgrading for a four-year training program. This
list should be divided by division, category/level, year and
priorities;
(d)  coordinate training plans/activities with the MWC Training
Committee;
(e) establish and implement an in-house literacy program in
cooperation with the Ministry of Education;



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 8 of 10
(f) develop a program for different categories and levels of
personnel, taking into consideration MWC's manpower require-
ments  and  budgetary  constraints.   The  program  should  be
presented along the following lines:
(i)  a one- to two-year Priority Program to start as soon as
possible; and
(ii) a Regular Program which would follow and consolidate
action taken during the Priority Program. The training
courses/activities would be updated annually in consulta-
tion with MWC and IDA.
(g) determine the number and categories of MWC instructors re-
quired and set up programs for their training bearing in mind
that eventually they would have to carry out most of the
training activities initiated by the expatriate technical
experts.   Prepare  special  courses  for  them.   Start  their
selection and training as early as possible;
(h) determine training equipment and materials required for
relevant courses, especially audio-visual aids, and assist
with their preparation and/or specifications and purchase;
(i) determine training courses/programs to be carried out by GTTI
and MDI and, provided they fit into overall agreed program,
ensure their implementation;
(j) ensure that line supervisors conduct on-the-job training under
normal work situation.   This will constitute a substantial
part of the training program, and will be combined with
classroom training and/or further education;
(k) prepare annual training budgets;
(1) identify and select appropriate/relevant highway agencies and
equipment manufacturer's training centres to be used for
advanced training abroad for senior MWC staff;
(m) selection, testing and scheduling of fellowships;
(n) design a system to (i) monitor training courses while they are
being carried out and, later, (ii) assess trainees' perfor-
mance. This task should be conducted jointly by staff of the
training section and line supervisors;
(o) develop an evaluation system to determine whether the training
program objectives -- set in terms of expected outputs,
effects and impact - have been met; and



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 9 of 10
(p) prepare a schedule of activities and take any other action
considered necessary for the satisfactory planning and imple-
mentation of training.
Phase II
Implementation, supervision, evaluation of the training program.
(a) implementation of training courses/activities;
(b)  continuing   training/upgrading  of  MWC   counterparts   and
instructors;
- (c) supervision of training courses/activities conducted by GTTI
and MDI;
Cd) monitoring/supervision of training courses while they are
being carried out as well as following up quality control to
be conducted jointly by the Training Officer and line
supervisors;
Ce) evaluation of the completed training program (as previously
agreed); and
Cf) any other action considered necessary for satisfactory imple-
mentation of various components of program.
15.       The advisor will have appropriate experience in human resource
development in the highway sector including; course development, testing
and evaluation, training aids and equipment, budgeting and finance,
scheduling, instructor training, and overall program coordination. The
advisor's work schedule will encompass an initial period of two months
at start-up, with periodic follow-up visits (of approximately two weeks
each) every six months.
V. Reporting Schedule
16.       The Training Officer assisted by the Training Advisor will be
responsible for preparing the following reports for the Permanent
Secretary within the time limits specified:
(a) a short Inception Report within two months of arrival of the
Training Advisor;
(b) quarterly progress reports;
(c) draft Final Report by mid-1990; and
(d) Final Report within one month of receiving comments on the
draft.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 3
Page 10 of 10
17.       The management expert with the clerical specialist will be
responsible for preparing the following reports for the Permanent
Secretary within the time limits specified:
(a) quarterly progress reports during the first year;
(b) half-yearly progress reports during the following period;
(c) manuals as described in the work description (paras 12 and
13);
(d) short draft final reports at the end of the respective assis-
tance periods; and
(e) final reports within one month of receiving comments on the
draft.
Source: MWC and Mission
WAFT1
February 1986



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY HIAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Transport Planning
Outline of Terms of Reference
A.   Objective
1.        Technical assistance to the Planning Unit of MWC will be
provided by a Transport Economist consultant over a period of three
years; the consultant will be responsible to the Planning Officer. The
functions of the Planning Unit are provided in the Attachment.  The
general objective is to enable the Government to improve and expand its
transport planning capabilities through:
(a) effective organization and operation of transport planning
procedures;
(b) preparation of guidelines for transport planning activities,
including feasibility studies; and
(c) provision of on-the-job training of local professional staff
to ensure that, by the end of the advisory period, the
Planning Officer will be capable of carrying the functions
without further technical assistance.
B.   Scope of Service
2.        The  Consultant  will  assist  the  Planning  Officer  in  the
following general areas:
(a) planning and organization of the transport sector;
(b) formulation of transport policies, particularly those relating
to effective coordination of transport modes;
(c) formulation of a detailed program of transport rehabilitation
and investments;
(d) reviewing problems of transport charges and in particular the
pricing of ferry services;
(e) establishing a system of collection and periodic updating of
data for the transport sector;
(f) establishing a methodology for selecting feeder roads to be
upgraded;



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 2
(g) determining the role of river transport and its coordination
with road transport; and
(h) recruiting and training of Government personnel for transport
planning and coordination.
C.   Work Plan
3.        During the first three months of the assignment the Consultant
will, together with his counterpart and in close consultation with
planning staff of HEPID, prepare a work plan, including terms of
reference for studies to be carried outside consultant teams, for the
approval of the Permanent Secretary, HWC, and IDA. The plan will give
details of priorities assigned to the activities to be covered as listed
under B above. It will also provide an outline of the methodology and
timing of different reports.
D.   Qualifications of the Consultant
4.        The Consultant should have a degree in economics and a good
inderstanding  of  engineering problems.   He  should l-.e  substantial
experience in transport planning and have worked in developing
countries.
WAPT1
February 1986



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Functions of the Transport Planning Unit in MWC
The Planning Unit will report directly to the Permanent
Secretary of MWC. The Planning Unit will have responsibility for all
planning tasks for the transport sector and sub-sectors which are the
responsibility of MWC.  In particular, it will assist the MWC in the
following:
1.        Elaboration of sectoral development objectives, strategy and
priorities within the framework of the overall national development
objectives, strategy and priorities of the medium-term and the annual
plans.
2.        Formulation of sectoral development programmes for inclusion
in the medium-term and annual plans, in cooperation with the Sectoral
Planning Committees.
3.        Formulation of developmental and economic policies needed for
efficient implementation of the programmes.
4.        Appraisal  of  development  projects  and  scrutiny  of  other
proposals  submitted  for  inclusion  in  the  sectoral  development
programmes.    The  project   appraisal  will   include   assigning   of
intra-sectoral priorities.
5.        Preparation of the annual development budget of the MWC.
6.        Monitoring  of  implementation  of  the  sectoral  development
programmes and projects, in particular by operating in cooperation with
the MEPID, the Progress Reporting System on Plan Projects instituted by
MEPID.
7.        Assisting   departments,   parastatal   enterprises   and   the
technical divisions of the MWC in:
(a) formulation of development projects and programmes;
(b) establishing appropriate progress reporting at the project
level.
8.        The priority tasks of the Planning Unit will consist of:
(a) the preparation of studies on planning and organization of the
transport sector;
(b) the formulation of transport policy proposals;



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
(c) preparation of studies and recommendations on effective
coordination between road and river freight transport;
(d) formulation and periodic updating of a detailed program,
including priority ratings, for transport rehabilitation and
investment projects;
(e)  studying,   reviewing   and   monitoring   the   adequacy   and
consistency of transport charges including road user charges,
ferry rates, river transport charges, port charges, road
freight rates and passenger fares; and
(f) maintaining and periodically updating data on the inventory
and physical performance of the transport sector and in
particular motor vehicle statistics, road traffic counts, and
axle load and accident statistics.
Source: HEPID and Mission
WAPTI
February 1986



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Study of the Domestic Contracting Industry
Terms of Reference
1. Introduction
1.1       The Government of the Gambia, through the Ministry of Works
and Communications (MWC), wishes to review the role of domestic
contractors in the construction and maintenance of civil works,
especially roads.  While it is anticipated that contracts for major
construction projects will continue to be carried out by international
firms for some years to come, there is an increasing demand for civil
works and the maintenance of existing infrastructure, which would be
suitable for domestic contractors.
1.2       Therefore, MWC has decided to retain a consultant to provide
the services outlined below.
2. Objective
2.1       To develop  the domestic contracting  Industry by improving
local capability for executing, in particular, road and building
maintenance activities which are presently being carried out mainly by
force account operations.
3. Scope of Consultant's Work
3.1       The  consultant  will  identify  the  major  constraints  and
obstacles which have prevented domestic firms from taking part in road
and building construction and maintenance. Based on this review, the
consultant will prepare a strategy for developing the domestic
contracting industry for road and building maintenance and minor works
including an action plan focusing on short-to medium-term efforts
required to initiate a development momentum as appropriate for the
market size and potential growth in The Gambia.
3.2       In more detail, the consultant will, inter alia, review and
assess:
(a) government's policy toward the local construction industry,
including MWC's force account operations, international
contractors,   locally  based  foreign  firms  and  domestic
contractors;
(b) the incentives that might be necessary to encourage the
creation and growth of a domestic contracting industry.
including:



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 4
(M)  investment and tax codes;
(ii) authority of the various public-sector agencies to
procure works by contract;
(iii) preferences for domestic contractors;
(iv) the public sector procurement systems and practices of
awarding contracts to companies and individuals;
(v)  financial assistance to contractors, such as advances for
materials and equipment;
(vi) nomination of an agency to be the contracting industry's
interlocutor with Government; and
(vii) technological requirements to consider the feasible use
of locally available material and human resources.
3.3       The consultant will investigate the capacity and capability of
the local contracting industry, in particular for carrying out road and
building construction and maintenance activities. This will include but
not be limited to:
(a)  size,  location,  and  type  of  activity,  etc.  of  private
contractors   (foreign   locally-based   and   domestic)   and
government force account operations engaged in road and
building construction and mair.tenance activities;
(b)  existing  local  production  and  processing  of  construction
materials;
(c)  past experience with and performance of private contractors,
including the role of domestic firms as partners in joint
ventures and sub-contractors;
ud)  availability of qualified local manpower at different levels;
and
Ce)  existence and role of contractor associations in The Gambia.
3.4       Related to the demand on the local contracting industry, the
consultant will estimate:
(a)  the public sector road construction and maintenance activities
for the next five years and the part thereof which is suitable
for execution by domestic contractors; and
(b)  other public and private construction demands for the next
five years, and the part thereof suitable for domestic
contractors.
3.5       The  consultant   will  review  development  and/or  growth
constraints, including:
(a)  availability of local entrepreneurial talent;
(b)  fluctuations of construction demand;
(c)  reliability of the supply of equipment, spare parts and raw
materials due to border, transportation or other problems;
(d)  profitability;
(e)  availability of skilled manpower;
(f)  legal or administrative constraints;



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 4
(g)  complexity  of  bidding  documents  including  designs  and
specifications which are difficult to attain with an infant
industry;
(h)  flnancial constraints for obtaining equipment, materials and
working capital; and
(i) adequacy of timely flow of funds from clients to contractors.
3.6       The  consultant  will  explore  the  suitability  of  existing
financial institutions for lending to domestic contractors and for
supplying bid and performance bonds.
3.7       Related to education and training, the consultant will assess:
(a) the industry's manpower requirements; and
(b)  the   suitability   of   existing   education   and   training
institutions,  such  as  GTTI  and  MDI,  to  meet  both  the
qualitative  and  quantitative  manpower  requirements  of  the
construction industry under assumption of growth which the
consultant assumes attainable for the industry.
3.8       The consultant will maintain close contact with advisors and
consultants to MWC and take such other actions as necessary to meet the
principal requirements stipulated in paragraph 3.1.
4. Work Program and Reports
4.1       The consultant's services will aggregate about 4 m-m and will
be carried out in three phases:
(a) Phase I will include about four weeks to review and assess the
areas of study indicated in the "Scope of Work". The findings
and conclusions of Phase I shall be presented in an interim
report to be submitted to MWC not later than one month after
the starting date.
(b) Phase II will include about four weeks to prepare, in close
consultation with MWC, a strategy for developing the domestic
contracting industry in minor road works and maintenance
activities.   The strategy will propose short, medium,  and
long-term goals, and an action plan aimed at resolving the key
immediate problems and constraints identified during Phase I.
The action plan will contain schedules and programs for
various steps, including training courses, and identify the
persons  or  institutions  to  be  responsible  for  their
implementation. The action plan shall be presented to MWC not
later than 2 months after the starting date.
(c)  Phase III will commence within one month of receiving comments
from MWC and IDA on the action plan.   The plan will be
finalized and the consultant will conduct about two months of
seminars and on-the-job training for domestic contractors
involved in, or interested in, road maintenance activities,



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 4 of 4
including coordination of the various steps in the agreed
action plan.  The final draft report to be issued at the
completion  of  Phase  III  will  briefly  summarize  the
accomplishments of the domestic contractors and areas which
still need attention to enable satisfactory participation of
local firms in road maintenance activities.
WAPTI
February 1986



- 77-
ANNX 3-9
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MUINTENANCE PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
1.        Project base costs have been eutiasted at February 1986 prices
based on estimates prepared by MWC consultants and the Apprisal mis-
sion.  An exchange rate of 1US$ - Dalasis 5.2 has been used.  The
detailed cost estimates, which exclude central workshop and headoffice
overheads, are shown in Attachment 1.
2.        Physical contingencies have been applied as follows:
(a) 10Z for contracted civil works covering road and bridge
rehabilitation, and supervision;
(b) 5% for institution building covering technical assistance,
studies and training; and
(c) 02 for the road uaintenance program covering a four-and-one
half-year (1986 to mid-90) time slice, extended by one year to
allow for slippage.
3.        Price contingencies have been applied to both the foreign and
local base costs (including physical contingencies) at the estimated
foreign inflation rates of 7.0Z for 1986 and 1987. 7.52 for 1988, 7.7%
for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and 4.5Z for 1991 onwards. It is expected that
future adjustments in the exchange rates would be made by the Government
if the local inflation rate is much higher than foreign inflation rates.
4.        The tentative financing plan for the project is presented in
Attachment 2.  IDA and the cofinanciers would finance: (i) 1002 of
equipment, materials and initial spare parts, purchases, technical
assistance, project auditing, studies and training; (ii) 100% of foreign
and 50% of local costs of road and bridge rehabilitation works ard
supervision; and (iii) an average of 60% of direct operating costs
(including salaries and wages) for periodic and routine maintenance.
5.        Attachment 3 shows the expected annual distribution of project
costs based on the agreed Implementation Schedule.
6.        Attachment 4 presents the estimated annual budget contribution
to be made by the Government for the project, excluding central vorkshop
and headoffice overheads. The Government's contribution will increase
significantly from FY87/88 when the road and bridge rehabilitation works
are expected to start.  Also, IDA financing of the road maintenance
program will be reduced to 80% for direct operating expenditures
(excluding salaries and wages) incurred in FY87/88 and to 60%
thereafter. Consequently, the Government's budget will have to cover
some foreign exchange costs, equivalent to about one third of fuel
imports in FY87/88 and three quarters of fuel imports thereafter.
Attachment 5 shows the estimated annual budget requirements (in February
1986 constant prices) for road maintenance programs after the end of the
project.
WAPTI
February 1986



ANNEX 3-9
z  ~ 78 -         THE GAMBIA                     Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
SECOND HISHMAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Cost Estiaute
(In Dalasi  0001                       (In US$, 0001
Total                                  Total
Local        Foreign  Total            Local         Foreign  Total
Salaries Contracts                     Salaries Contracts
and      and                           and       and
Wages at  Supplies                    IWges a/  Supplies
Maintenance Program
Equipment and vehicles - IUD               0         0     6059   6059             0         0     1165   1165
- Shopping         0        0       936    936             0        0       180    190
- UNSO             0        0       276    276            0         0        53     53
- RED              0        0      1920   1920             0        0       350    350
Periodic mintenance
- paved roads                           343       331     3699   4372            66        64      711    841
- gravel roads                         1069        25     4054   5141           206         5      790    9O
Routine maintenance
- paved roads                          2049       902     4615   7566           394       173      009   1455
- gravel roads                         1997        85     3252   5224           363        16      625   1005
Fder rd maint. (UNSOI-force Account       316       207      932   1535            61        55      179    295
-Contract             0      289      1155   1444             0       56       222    278
Experimental low cost paving              15       117      410    542             3        23       79    104
Read maintenance assistance                0       676     6032   6708             0       130     1160   1290
Workshop management assistance             0       155      1405   1560            0        30      270    300
Subtotal                            5679     2067    34643  43189           1092      551      6662   8306
Physical contingencies                   0         0        0       0            0         0        0      0
Price contingencies                   1182       444     5354   6991           227       85      1030   1342
TOTAL                               6661      3311    3997  50170           1320      637      7692   9648
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
Bund Road
- Civil works                             0       936     3744   4690             0       100      720    900
- Supervision                             0        41      333    374             0         9       64     72
South Dank Road
- Civil works                             0      1904     7634   9538             0      366      1468   1934
- Supervision                             0        52      469    520             0        10       90    100
Brumn Bridge
- Civil works                             0       932     3328   4160             0       160      640    900
- Suprvision                              0        63      561    624             0        12      109    120
Subtotl                                0      3!929    1606b  19996            0      736      3090   3926
Physical contingencies                   0       3,3     1607   1990             0        74      309    383
Price contingencies                      0       771     3233   4004             0       148      622    710
TOTAL                                  0      4982    209  25890               0      956      4021   4979



79                                                 AIMEI 3-9
THE SAIA                          Attachmnt I
Page 2 of 2
SECOND HIONNAY NAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(In Dalaui  0001                      (In US, 0001
Total                                 Total
Local        Foreign  Total           Local        Foreign  Total
Institutional Strengthening
Construction industry assistance          0       21       187    206           0         4       36     40
Project auditing                          0       25       Z35    260           0         5       45     50
Tran,port planning. IC                    0      104      936   1040            0        20      190    200
Training assistance, MEC                  0       52       182    234           0        10       35     45
Training saterials and courses            0      311      391    702            0       60        75    135
Nanagement assistance, "MC                0      203      1125   2029           0        39      351    390
Transportation studin                     0       79      702    790            0        15      135    150
Sototal                               0      794     4459   5252            0      153       857   1010
Physical contingecin                    0       40      223    263            0        9        43     51
Price contingencies                     0      135      710    952            0       26       138    164
TOTAL                                 0      969     539B   6367            0      186      103B   1224
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)         0      286     2574   2960            0       55       495    550
lotal Base Cost                    5679     7775    57743  71197         1092     1495    11104  13692
Total Physical contingencies          0      423     1930   2252            0       91      352    433
Total Price contingencies          [192     1350     9305  11837          227      260      1799   2276
GRAND TOTAL                        6961     9547    69979  9526          1320     1936    13246  16401
Source: NEC
a/ Of which salaries of IMC road maintenance personnel represent about 47Z.
IIAPTI
February 1986



u     iii                        i~~~~n@.                e@    esLe    @0 2m 
I                                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~r 
I  ii~~~~ - --   --  '--. -- 
.1~~                              0                                          2   *   aj         tj
aI mbIj
U  I~~~~~~~~ljl                                                                   01~~~~~~0
kit   I ~v1s         *ECI           2gs         I                DE       E
*  .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              0j~~~~~~~~-8 .
I  !i                   ~~~~~~- -- -  SI             -             ---                                 



qst-  |sil  i  ,    ,-,"?,,  ,           1   .      1 .   ww. It
i       -lf.    I Fi. 
i  Z    a  | CaZ iCa"aw   6| l    s   sS         .l   Ew i C    _  1----        1-a
|  a    |  i  f=  IIti iij   9 jfg  III J5j fi ;  ii    f9   a i1ll  l! 11a'i
I _f _            i-J_ _ _f_                               ft _              r.w_t1 U    .    I  1 *
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-----  ... -------        1-  -- --                        *      --  -t
1 ._                                     _                     _ ..._ .......  .. ..   1. .I
.  ...  .......     __---                         ---- -- 
.o            s   E a. .. .   .                   .    . ........           s ..  ..  ..
.   ...    _ wsE . ......       _                   .  -.. __       ua          th u
311            _________.____......  _ L.WA ..    _..                       Es.5 1a   am1
3I i;l     U    waU aEni.          IF ml  oi  ml           I U.  :65 C      5   :5 .in            If _J  I3 
- iii         8|  *zU gUS.    EIE   .1   6   ml            I i.E  :._JY IU   E   .a               I[    '|
e . 1-        *1-11--    ---- -   el l."  {5
. "_c    *1---1-------         -1---    --5 --           8- ----- us  as ---...               X   1
* 8.5      1Z-                 --* i-      -1- u'.S1.-  ce  -11s
-aul -  -.- -1 1- ... .......                                     .     ..
.    . -..  ...,..r..       I                   U S          .
E zl=aw3-3v
6-E XDINW
- '18-



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-9
Attachment 4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Government Budget Contribution
('000 Dollars)
Component                     85/86  86/87   87/88  88/89   89/90   90/91    Total
(2nd
(Sem)
Contracts and Supplies
Road Maintenance Program
- Local                           0      0       20     22       18        18      78
- Foreign                         0      0      126    254      289      250      919
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
- Local                           0      0      293    186        0        0      479
Sub-total                             0      0      439    462      307       268   1,476
Salaries and Wages (Road Maint.)
Sub-total                           107    252      228    215      260       258   1,320
Total                               107    252      667    677      567       526   2,796
WAPT1
February 1986



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-9
Attachment 5
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Annual Road Maintenance Budget Requirements
After End of Project 1/
Direct Operating Costs (February 1986 constant prices (US$'000)
Local         Foreign          Total
Contracts and Supplies
- Periodic Maintenance         10             310             320
- Routine Maintenance          30             290             320
Salaries and Wages            200               0             200
Total                         240             600             840
Replacement of Road Maintenance Equipment
Estimated Minimum               0             175             175
1/ Based on 1,300 Km road network.
Source: MWC
WAPT1
February 1986



,GMfA
5E MH            ADUSAC PM:r
Inplmtion Schedule
I mm^lYear  _                         _      [      1986            1987            1988            1989            1990            1991
ACrI'IVY                                           1  2   3  4  1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4  1    2  3  4  1   2  3  4  1   2   3  4
Madntawc                                                                                             ;                                               l
Elizmt aun Vhitcles                                    P. ,4      D.        El
Periodic Mainte    eKmce
- Paved Roads (100 Kb Ssr & 131M  fog)                                                                      f)              )
- Gravel Roads (260 Km Gravelli)                    28Km            Km                                              17 Km
Routine Maintenance
- Psved Roads
- Gravel Roads
U{;O Feeder Road MEintanwce (340 Y.)
E>Th rnwital Low-cost Paving (5 mb)
Road Maitentace Assistamce                                     ,
IWolrshop Mwisg.t Assistance                                                                            _                _
Rcad aM Bridge RehabilitatIlm
Burid Road                                                             JP B, A.   -D
Soth Bank Road
Brume  Bridep                                                                    A
InstituticG d Strenen1 
Construction Industry Assistance                                .
Pmoject Iuditixg                                                  _               _               _
Trauport Plaming
Eqlpment amn Materials, MWC                                      _
Trizduig Materials amu Cmrses
Maragmit and Traing Assistawe, MW                                     _      _   _         _
Trsnportation Studies.. 
P - Prep3rstion of Specif icatioscDBidding Dklments or Termo of Referenc
B - ITvite Bids or Proposals
A - #pronve Ccntrwcts
D - DoUalsy or Mobbtltimn
.'b rary 1986



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Date of                             Cumulative           Cumulative Disbursements
End of         Disbursements      Disbursements          Project          Historical
Quarter           (US$'000)         (US$'000)           Estimate           Profile
(Z)               (%)
FY87
30 Sept. 86                550                550               9                  1
31 Dec.  86                400                950              16
31 Mar.  87                300               1250              22                  8
30 June  87                350               1600              28
FY88
30 Sept. 87                350               1950              34                 19
31 Dec.  87                350               2300              40
31 Mar.  88                350               2650              46                 31
30 June  88                350               3000              52
FY89
30 Sept. 88                350               3350              58                 44
31 Dec.  88                350               3700              64
31 Mar.  89                300               4000              69                 56
30 June  89                200               4200              72
FY90
30 Sept. 89                200               4400              76                 68
31 Dec.  89                200               4600              79
31 Mar.  90                150               4750              82                 78
30 June  90                150               4900              84
FY91
30 Sept. 90                150               5050              87                 87
31 Dec.  90                150               5200              90
31 Mar.  91                150               5350              92                 93
30 June  91                150               5500              95
FY92
30 Sept. 91                100               5600              97                 97
31 Dec.  91                100               5700              98
31 Mar.  92                100               5800             100                100
WAPTI
February 1986



THE GAMBIA: SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISB'JRSEMENT PROFILE
lee
- -  EXPECTED DISDWSE?NT PROFILE
98o .      . W.AFRICA HUY PROJECTS,IDACHISTORICAL PROFILE)
70-
a88
so-
1- ~ 40            csn
-Cc                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0%
~30
208
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0I
18          U
F          FY88           FY89           FY90           FY91           FY921_
FY88 THIRU FY92
EXPECTED BOARD APPROVAL s MARCH 1066
EXPECTED CREDIT EFFECTXVENESSI JuLy 1986
S~UMeu -~ ESTZATU
VAPTI
PEUPJN 1666



- 87 -
ARM   3-12
ME CA
smm HE1W NGIiBTA        WEc
Ihlt Rat1   for Rood I lntme ActivItL
wbrk                               Direct cP r tizB
muslt                        Eqi-         21      3/
Acti__            Code    unit    Total  Ovbeieads   Arr. S+W- C+S-    3RFmb
BY :e AMCr
Gmwl Roads
epipdr Mummry                    7    each 1,312.80    325.73    108.07  212.91   666.09
Sims (provide & Insts1l.)       8    each  1,312.80    325.73    108.07  212.91   666.09
culverts (provide & lnst.U)     9       *   1,121.83    278.35     75.65  149.04   618.79
ClQarig  qegtarim               10     ha  2,128.40    528.10    299.48  591.20   709.62  1/
Cli ming drainue               11  gmgm-day 766.22    190.11    107.81  212.83   255.47  1/
Patching (nuMl)                 12     ;9      86.81     21.54     13.23   22.18    29.86  Tla. Activity 100
Hlsca_lmosr routine tao"w       13  gawg-day 767.38    190.40    108.07  212.91   256.00  1/
Patrditg (UsCh'd)              14      mg    31.36        7.78      6.51    3.96    13.11  %aa. Activity 100
Dtch Clearing                   15     km    275.66      68.40     54.90   31.39   12D.97
1lAgt  icnB                    16    hk    322.46        80.01     66.67   29.18   146.60
Reiapi"fg ro&aiy                17    hk  2,268.13    562.77    511.54  176.86 1,016.96
Gera* regrmatUlng               18     m'      34.22      8.49      7.52    3.79    14.42
Stodplrtag davel               100     MS      10.05      2.49      2.42    0.89      4.25
Paed Ros
Clering Xegtatiw               20      ha  2,128.40    528.10    299.48  591.20   709.62  1/
cameadn dsEin                  21  gaig-day 766.22    190.11    107.81  212.83   255.47  1/
Pathing (prmlia                22      mg  1,036.39    257.15      62.42  124.05   592.77  lba. Activity 201
1acel.laoun routine tai,s       23  gaig-day 766.22    190.11    107.81  212.83   255.47  It
Patcding dwouldeis (nal)       24    up        88.70     22.01     13.20   22.18    31.31   ncl. Activity 200
Rpvelling ixuilders (uadb'd)  25    au         47.99     11.91      9.86    5.75    20.47  ITnO. caivity 200
Po  nMt repairs                 26     u2    103.51      25.68     13.91   22.53    41.39
levelling pveint (pradx)       24      a'    824.64    204.61      34.53   60.76   524.74  TlE]. Activity 201
S.Ul mrface rOSeling           29    ltre    8.06         2.00      0.92    0.79      4.35   xEl. Activities 202.
Cei1l reDa1ig                  30      a2       5.00      1.24      0.18    0.15      3.43  204 aud 205.
Fog Seal                       31      u2    125.43      31.12      1.75    2.10    9D.46
Stockiling pa vel             200      as      10.05      2.49      2.42    0.89      4.25
PraFdx * ifacture             201      as    653.28    162.09       8.52   17.64   465.03
ckle diell  g. prNcesstng   202        *'    101.90      25.28     23.24   17.33    36.05  Excl. Extraction
AB8egRte trmort                203    ms-ha   78.85      19.56     17.37    5.41    36.51
BY a0uRACr
Caesring W eetatio             27      b ha    609.58        -         -       -   609.58
hgregate trnunport             204  lOo-bn  118.0t           -         -       -   118.04
Chold sbell prnctzent         205      z?      66.34         -         -       -    66.34
1/ Uj=er 14mts of force acrut and contracted operatians for cndes 10, 11. 13. 2D, 21. 23 axd 27
vi.U be aemd   yaay.
2/ Salaries ad wvues.
3/ Cactsr and sapplies: these rates vfll be used for MA ddbis. i nta.
So : NC
Fbrumry 1986                                                                                   -



- 88 -
ANE  3-13
THE GABUA
SDCOND UIGQAIY MAIWZENAWCK PROJECT
Annual Road Haintenance Targets
(Dalamis)
Work
Meas t
Activity             Code      Unit       FY85186     7186/87     FY87/88    F188/89    P189/90   9M0/9l
BY FORCE ACCOUNT
Gravel Road.
Repair Masonry                       7      each                             To be determined
Signs (provide & install)           8       each                            To be determined
Culverts (provide & install)         9       m                               To be determined
Clearing vegetation                 10       ha           21           21          21         21          21         21
Cleaning drainage                   11    gang-day       687          687         687        773        828         828
Patching (maual)                    12       *'        2,059        2,059       2,059      2,059      2,103       2,103
Miscellaneous routine tasks         13    gang-day       205          205         205        205         210        210
Patching (mech d)                   14       e'            0       13,530      18,810     14,960     13,750      13,750
Ditch clearing                      15       km          734          811         563        741        834         834
Light grading                       16       km        1,824       1,824        1,964      2,257      2,348       2,373
Reshaping roadvay                   17       km            0          123         171        136        125         125
General regravelling                18       a        40,950      87,750       79,560     84,825     43,875           0
Stockpiling gravel                 100       U3        2,058            0      20,868     17,018          0      15,853
Paved Roads
Clearing vegetation                 20       ha           23           24          23         22         23          24
Cleaning drainage                   21    gang-day       374          383         371        358         362        385
Patching (premix)                   22       Ds          654         676          573        556        584         617
Hisceltaneous routine tasks         23    gang-day       234          240         232        224        226         241
Patching shoulders (manual)         24       m3        2,340        2,395       2,320      2,240       2,260      2,405
Regravelling shoulders (uechd)    25       m'         4,680       4,790        4,640      4,480      4,520       4,810
Pavement repairs                    26      Mo         1,360       1,425        1,285      1,188      1,223       1,273
Levelling pavement (premix)         28       *'          391         420          445        421        410         423
Small surface resealing             29      litre     23,000      23,360       19,660     20,550     23,410      24,800
General resealing                   30       *2            0     259,720      283,800    1l8,100          0           0
Fog Seal                            31      m2             0      59,630            0    360,000    360,000           0
Stockpiling gravel                 200       '         7,020        7,185       6,960      6,720      6,780       7,21S
Premix manufacture                 201       o'        1,045       1,096        1,018        977        994       1,040
Cockle shell aggr. processing      202       n3        2,000        5,579       3,668        657          0           0
Aggregate transport                203      ms-km                                    To be determined
BY CONITRACI
Clearing vegetation                 27       ha          225         230          223        215        217         231
Aggregate transport                204    100O  -km      560        3,100       1,850          0          0           0
Cockle shell procurement           205       12        2,500       4,111        4,621        672          0           0
Note: Quantities for Codes 10, 11, 13, 20, 21, 23 and 27 are not be be exceeded by more than 10%.
Source: NWC
February 1986



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Main Assumptions and Results
1.        Except for the short coastal strip and the capital, Banjul,
which has an industrial and service base, The Gambia has atn agricultural
economy.  Products consist mainly of groundnuts, foodgvains, cotton and
livestock which have to be transported to Banjul for consumption or
export. The flow of goods into the interior covers agricultural inputs
such as fertilizer and seeds, foodstuff and other necessities.
2.        In  the absence of the proposed project  investments,  road
conditions would deteriorate and cause physical bottlenecks for
transport  movements.   Estimated  project  benefits  reflect  only  the
savings in vehicle operating costs and some savings in maintenance costs
generated by the project.  Benefits generated by technical assistance
for institutional strengthening (about US$2.4 million equivalent which
could not be allocated to particular road programs) are expected to have
long term effects on road and equipment management practices; these
benefits have not been quantified. Expenditures from the PPF advance
are treated as sunk costs.
3.        Statistical data normally used to gauge traffic are not fully
dependable.    Vehicle   registration   data   are   inconsistent;   fuel
consumption is only partially representative because of sales to and
from Senegal; traffic counts had to be adjusted for counting errors and
the substantial fluctuations resulting from poor harvests because of
adverse weather conditions. The basic traffic data which have been used
appear acceptable, but for a few roads included in the regravelling
program further traffic counts will be done before regravelling is
started to ensure that the traffic is sufficient to justify the
investment.
4.        Cost and benefit streams have been updated to February 1986
prices. Even thouugh the country is desperately short of foreign ex-
change, the foreign currency costs have not been shadow priced because
both the road maintenance work and the resulting vehicle operating
savings contain a high foreign exchange component.  Cost and benefit
estimates used in the economic analysis exclude all taxes. Attachment 1
presents assumptions used in allocating project costs to various compo-
nents, and Attachment 2 gives distribution and yearly phasing of the
costs.
5.        Project benefits mainly arise from reduced road maintenance
costs and reduced vehicle operating costs as a result of improved road
conditions brought about by the project. Savings in vehicle operating
costs are quantified with the help of known relationships between a
given road condition and related vehicle costs.    Vehicle operating
costs for different road conditions used for the analysis are given in



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Attacbment 3. and a definition of road conditions is given in
Attachment 4.   Attachment 5  summarizes  main  assumptions  used  for
estimating proiect benefits.
6.        Attachments 6 to 10 present cost benefit streams relating to
main project components (viz, gravel road maintenance, paved road
maintenance,   total  road  maintenance   program,   South  Bank  Road
Rehabilitation and Bund Road Rehabilitation). Attachment 11 presents a
summary of economic rate of returns (ERR) from various project
components.  Further details on economic analysis are presented in the
Project File.
WAPT1
February 1986



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Assumotions Regarding Allocation of
Project Costs among Various Components
1.        Annex 3-9, Attachment 3 provides project costs (in February 1986 prices).
Costs for economic analysis include base costs and physical ccotihg~cnces, but
exclude price contingencies. Allocation of economic costs among various project
components has been made on the following basis:
Cost Item as Given in Cost Table          Allocation
a) Equipment and Vehicles                 30% to Periodic Maintenance
(Excluding UNSO and MED share)         of Paved Roads
7OZ to Periodic Maintenance
of Gravel Roads
b) Spare Parts (MED)                      100% to Institutional Building
c) Equipment and Vehicles                 100% to Routine Maintenance
(UNSO Share)                           of Gravel Roads
d) Periodic Maintenance; Paved Roads    100% for same Component
e) Periodic Maintenance; Gravel Roads           if     t
f) Routine Maintenance; Paved Roads             "
g) Routine Maintenance; Gravel Roads                   to
h) Feeder Road Maintenance: - F. A.       100% to Routine Maint. of G-avel Rds.
i)                           - Contract  100% to Periodic Maintenance of Gravel Rds.
J) Experimental Low Cost Paving           100% to Institution Building
k) Road Maintenance Assistance           50% for Institution Building, and
50% for Distribdtion Equally
Among: Periodic Maint. of Paved Rds.,
Routine Maint. of Faved Rds.,
Periodic Maint. of Gravel Rds., and
Routine Maint. of Gravel Rds.
1) Workshop Management Assistance:        100% to Institution Building
m) Bund Road                              100% for same Component
n) South Bank Road                              " 
o) Brumen Bridge
p) Institution Strengthening              100% for Same Component
q) Project Preparation Facility           100% for Same Component
2.        Annual phasing of expenditure follows phasing of project
expenditure. Details are given in the Project File.
3.        Resulting Cost Allocations among components and over the
project years are given in Attachment 2.
February 1986
WAPTI



-92 -                                             AIE! 4
THE  ADIA                                    Attachmt 2
SEEED EIlHIAV NAIIEIICE PROECT
Distribution and Yerly Phasing of Projuct Cots
(US$  000, in 1996 priceu
Total X of Total
Project   Cut         1985-86     1996-97      1987-9     1980989      1999-90     1990-91
Paved Roads Naintenance
Routine Naint ance                 1623         11         170         346         320         259         269         259
Periodic Ihintuance                1412         10          66         541         45          171         155          64
Gravel  oads Naintmance
Rutine Naintnuace                  1521         11          93         412         354         194         237         230
Periodic Nuintenance               2377         17         138         911         969         161         161         137
3u-d Rad  ehabilitation                95         7            0           0         770         224           0           0
South Dbak Road lehabilitation       2217         16           0           0        1146        1072           0           0
rmen Bridge Rehabilitation            qq7         7            0           0         738         258           0           0
intittion Stregtbning                2434        17            0        1372         607         263         160          32
Project Preparatin Facility           550         4          550           0           0           0           0           0
Total Costs               14125       100        1019        3591         5220        2603        9"1          722
(xcluding price contingencies)
Notn:
1. Distribution based on assutios in Attachmet 3.
2. Costs eclude price contingncin.
3. The cuts  homn in 1990-91 minly reflect paymnt delays; while prepwring cost strem  for
economic analysis (attachmts 6 to 101 1990-91 costs mere added to the 1989-90 costs.
WAPTi
February 1986



- 93 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 3
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs for Different Road Conditions
(In February 1986 US Dollar/Km exclusive of Taxes, Duties and Fees)
PAVED ROADS
Cost Element    Condition 1    Condition 2    Condition 3   Condition 4   Condition 5
C_st           Cost            Cost           Cost          Cost
Cars                0.14           0.14            0.15           0.16         0.18
Buses               0.45           0.49            0.53           0.61         0.75
7 Ton Trucks       0.26            0.29            0.31           0.36         0.48
UNPAVED ROADS
Cars               0.14            J.15            0.16           0.17         0.18
Buses              0.49            0.53            0.61           0.67         0.73
7 Ton Trucks       0.29            0.06            0.36           0.42         0.47
Source: MWC, and Consultant's Report, Project File Document No. 124.453.
Note: Road Conditions are defined in Attachment 4.
WAPT1
February 1986



- 94 -
Annex 4
Attacbment 4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROUECT
Definition of Road Conditions
PAVED ROADS                                           UNPAVED ROADS
CONDITION 1:     Recently paved road in excellent condition.            Recently constructed or reconstructed gravel
road having excellent transverse proflit and
riding qualities.
CONDmON 2:       Paved road which provides good riding comfort and   Gravel road, structurally sufficicnt, may
maintains its profile. Nay present slight             present small irregularities, such as light
distortions which do not, however, affect surface   corrugations or alight wear along the wheel
drainage,                                             tracks, which could be readily corrected with a
light cut by a conventional road grader.
CONDMON 3:       Paved road which presents a noticeably distorted    Cravel road where surface irregularities
profile. However, these distortions affect less    constrain the comfortable travel speed to a
than half of the pavement surface and do not          speed below that dictated by the alignment.
impose travel speed reduction.                        Correction would require a heavy grader cut or a
re-gravelling.
CONDITION 4:     Paved road whose surface is damaged and presents    Gravel road where a significant reduction in
numerous incidences of pavement failures:             travel speed is required to attain safe and
distortions, ruts, depressions, cracks, etc.          comfortable driving conditions. This condition
Failures remain light and only impose a alight        would apply to sections where the subgrade Is
reduction of travel speed.                            visible, where the roadway has structurally
failed or where the road is depressed below the
surrounding terrain.
CONDMON 5:       Paved road whose surface is heavily deteriorated    Gravel road which has failed to the extent that
and presents numerous incidences of major             a detour is in operation.
pavement failuret distortions, pot holes, cracks,
etc. Failures are severe enough to impose a
substantial reduction of travel speed.
CONDITION 6:     Paved road whose surface is completely destroyed.   Unimproved earth road. Condition varies with
Pavement failures are such that vehicles can only   nature of terrain and soils.
travel with difficulty and in so doing may incur
tire, suspension or even frame damage.
Source: MWC
WAP
January 1986



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
THE SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Assumptions in Estimating Project Benefits
General
1.        As noted in Annex 4, project benefits have been quantified by
estimating, for the duration of the project impact, road maintenance
costs and vehicle operating costs corresponding to the conditions "with
the project" and "without the project". The difference in the total of
these costs between the two situations indicates benefits attributable
to the project investments. Road conditions are defined in Attachment
4, and related vehicle operating costs are given in Attachment 3.
Road Maintenance Program (Gravel and Paved Roads)
2.        This  covers a  large part of  the network.   Average  daily
traffic on each road section in 1984 is taken and aggregated for the
road network, to estimate traffic units that would benefit from the
routine and periodic road maintenance program. Based on road condition
surveys done by consultants, the following general assumptions are made
regarding average road conditions for gravel roads:
Without Project: Roads not regravelled would deteriorate
gradually from condition 4.2 to 5 and 6;
With Project: Roads will be in condition 2 for four years
after project and gradually deteriorate to
coaditions 3 and 4 during the subsequent four
years.
3.        Both vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs would
be higher without the project. The above "average" position may not
apply to some marginal cases; it is estimated that for a minimum 15Z ERR
from regravelling, the road condition should be 4 or worse, and ADT
about 40 vpd in the year of regravelling. Roads which do not meet the
minimal ERR would not be regravelled under the project. Only those
roads which are now in poor condition (condition 4 or 5) and vould
revert to earth-roads (condition 6) within two to three years will be
regravelled (periodic maintenance) and restored to good condition.
Estimates for this component were complicated by the low rainfall in
recent years which has limited damage to the roads. However, a return
to more normal rainfall patterns, as happened in 1985, has been
considered when designing the maintenance program.
4.        The division of benefits between routine and periodic mainte-
nance used in the analysis is largely notional, as it is difficult to
separate the impacts of these activities. The life of routine mainte-
nance is taken as only one year (for each year's program), and that of
periodic maintenance (regravelling) taken as 6 years. However, benefits



- 96 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 5
Page 2 of 2
beyond 1994 from the maintenance program have been ignored in the
calculations. Project benefits include credit for about 40% salvage
value of the equipment purchased under the project, in the year after
project completion; this equipment will be used for future maintenance.
5.        An average traffic growth of about 5% was assumed for the road
system from 1985 to 1995. One of the sensitivity tests done by consul-
tants examined project benefits with only zero traffic growth; results
showed an estimated ERR of about 28Z for the maintenance program.
6.        A somewhat similar methodology to above is followed for the
periodic maintenance program. Detailed calculations of benefits from
the gravel and paved road maintenance programs are presented in
consultant's report (Project File Document Nos. 223.799 and 124.153).
Road Rehabilitation Components
7.        These cover specific road sections, viz., Yundum-Brikama (10
km), Brikama-Kalagi (100 km) and Kalagi to near Soma (40 km) which are
on the South Bank Road, and the Bund Road (3.5 km). These roads had
ADTs of 1,800 vehicles, 540 vehicles, 480 vehicles and 1,900 vehicles
respectively in 1984, and a road condition of 3.5-4 or worse. Without
the project, the condition would deteriorate to 5 rapidly; with the
project, it will improve to condition 3 for the South Bank Road and
condition 1 for the Bund Road and gradually deteriorate to 4, over a
period of about 7 and 15 years respectively after project completion.
Detailed road condition profiles, traffic levels, road maintenance
costs, and vehicle operating costs for each of these road sections is
presented in Project File Document Nos. 223.799 and 124.153, for both
"with project" and "without project" situations. A situation of zero
traffic growth for the South Bank and Bund road rehabilitation
components would correspond to about 20% reduction in project benefits,
and to corresponding sensitivity results, which show an estimated ERR of
about 25Z or higher.
Bridge Rehabilitation
8.        Regarding  rehabilitation  of  Brumen  Bridge,  it  has  been
assumed, based on engineering assessments, that its life beyond 1988 is
uncertain. Estimated 1984 traffic across this bridge is about 480 vpd,
most of it long distance. Benefit estimates conservatively assume an
average of 20 km extra distance to be travelled by 75% of these
vehicles, in the event of a major failure of the bridge in 1989. The
weighted average of vehicle operating costs for the traffic compostion,
assuming a road condition of 3, is about US$0.2 per vehicle km, and
about US$510,000 per annum for the assumed traffic diversion.   No
traffic growth is assumed for benefit calculations in this case.
WAPT1
February 1986



- 97 -
ANNEX 4
THE LVDIA                        Attachment 6
SECOW HIGSYMM        N NITEICE PROJECT
ECONOIIC COTS ND NEITS STREAKS (USS 000. JN 1986 PRICES)
;RAVEL ROADS IIAINTENAM-
1966   1987   1988   1969   1990   1       3992   193 14-2005
COSTS                 93.0  412.0  354.0  194.0  237.0  230.0  -20.0        -         -
ENEFITS                  -  260.0  496.0  535.0  572.0  286.0        -      -         -
PERIODIC MIMTEJCE
COSTS                 138.0  911.0  869.0  161.0  161.0  137.0 -376.0       -         -
BNEFITS                  -       -  153.0  240.0  580.0  884.0  960.0  800.0    430.0
TOTAL RVEL ROADS
CsTs                 231.0 1323.0 1223.0  355.0  396.0  367.0 -396.0        -        -
DEJEFITS                -  260.0  651.0  775.0 1152.0  1170.0  960.0  800.0    430.0
e N DET FIT
ROUTINE  1NTENMIM     -93.0  -152.0  144.0  341.0  335.0   56.0   20.0      -         -
PERIODIC rINrIIWICE  -138.0 -911.0 -716.0   79.   419.0  747.0 1336.0  800.0    430.0
TOTAL  RVE    S     -231.0 -1063.0 -572.0  420.0  754.0  803.0 1356.0  800.0    430.0
Internal rate of return for Gravel Roads Maintenance :28%
WAPT1
February 1986
*1



- 98 -
ANNEX 4
TM  161                            Attacbment 7
KcM  OU T NAINMWCE MJECT
ECIIC COM M  EFITS STREMS (UN 000. IN 1986 PRICES)
PNO R-S MINMTICE
1966   17   I9M1   196    19,0   11   29IM     1993 1"4-2005
OtS                  170.0  34.0  32D.0  259.0  269.0  259.0        -      -
EITmS                    -  546.0  543.0  626.0  642.0  320.0       -      -
PE83IC NDIINICE
cTSm                  46.0  541.0  415.0  271.0  155.0   U4.0 -260.0       -        -
IIFITB                   -  140.0  395.0  450.0  465.0  476.0  490.0  330.0    160.0
TOTAL PA0  mS
COT                  236.0   37.0  735.0  430.0  424.0  323.0 -160.0       -
IFIS                     -  416.0  923.0 106.0 1207.0  796.0  490.0  330.0    160.0
NET DEJEFff
ITJE  MINTEIWICE   -270.0  200.0  223.0  359.0  373.0   61.0        -      -        -
PIIC NIINIWIE   -660  -401.0  -30.0  279.0  320.0  412.0  650.0  330.0    160.0
TOTAL .PAl NM       -236.0 -201.0  193.0  639.0  483.0  4n.0  650.0  330.0    160.0
Internal rate of return for Paved Roads Maintenance: 70%
WAPT1
February 1986



- 99 -
ANNEX 4
TIE SANIA
Attachment 8
SEOND HOIIA  IWNTENANCE PROTC
ECONC CoST  D BENIT STRMEAS WUS 000s  l 186 PRICES)
TOTAL MINENIC  POWN FM PAVED ANMIECAW  ROAD
191    198    1988 1989        109mo     199 2    1993 1994- miO4
TOTAL RWL AND P          RObDS
COSTS                          467.0  2210.0  1958.0  795.0  822.0  690.0  -556.0        -
BENEFITS                           -  946.0  15N7.0  J843.0 2259.0 1966.0  1450.0  1130.       590.0
IET  EnIT                     -6.0  -1264.0  -379.0  1058.0  1437.0  1276.0  2006.0  1130.0    590.0
Interul RatS of Return ot Not Streas
16B7                   38.822
_e-M
SENSITIVIT  ANAYSIS
WY AS A Z
PRESENT            OF PRESENT          INTw?lR
ALUE AT OCC        COSTS AT OCC        RTE OF
TEST CASES   7EST CASE VARATIOS                OF 13.50Z           OF 13.50Z          REMlE
MSE CASE                                             2822.2               63.1Z          38.8Z-
TEST CASE  1 C7               UP  20Z                1929.3               36.0Z          26.9Z
TEST CASE 2 17                DOIN 20Z               1363.9               30,SZ          24.82
WAPTM
February 1986



THE SANDIA
SECOND 1IS4WAY MA1NTENANCE PRftCI
ECONOMIC COST AND DENEfIT STREAMS (US$OO00 IN 1786 PRICES)
SOUTH D-ANI( ROAD REHABILITATION (50 KMN)
1986-1987    1988    1987    1990    17,91    1572,   1993    3994    1995    3796 1997-2004
TOTAL EXPENDITURES AND COSTS
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                   -     1146    1072         -       -        -                         -       -
SAVINGS IN ROAD MAINTENANCE AND VEHIlCLE OPERATING COSTS              -        -        -     706      851    1014    1108    1 375    1590    1019
NET BENEITS                                                              - 1146   -1072        706     051    1014    1180    13075    3590    1019
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
NE20                      34.132
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
SCNSITlVITY TESTS
NPV AS A I
PRESENT              OF PRESENT            INTERNAL
VftLUE AT OCC        COSTS AT 0CC          RATE OF
TEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                   OF 13.501             OF 13.50             RETURN                                                                                  F
------ .- ---------------------- 
BASE CASE                                                   1532,2               107,22341
1EEI CASE  I  C20                UP   202                  1246.2                 72.61             20,32                                                                               %
TEST CASE  2  020                DOUN 202                   939.9                 65.7!             27.12
WAPTI
February 1986



THE hUlA
SECOND IfiGIEAT MINIENMACE PROJECT
FEcONOI  COST ANT, DWEr!! STYEA    (U5$ OOO. IN 178  rRICEs)
StuD RMSD REHABILITATION (35 Ml)
1286-198?    1988    1989    1P"0    1991    399         197f3    199      I99     19T6    3197   3IM        I9M      200     2001    2002    2003
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS-                                                         770      224                -                     -        --           -       -        -        -       --
SAVINGS IN ROAD MAINTENANCE AND VEHIICLE OPERATING COSTS              -        -      200     305      315      325     29?      315      329     343      364      38      M1       297      III     329      332     --
NEt  EKrEITs                                                                -770       56      305     315      325      297     315      329      343     364      M6       21      297      313      329     332
February 20. 1786 13136
Internal Rates af Return af Not Streamss
NIbo                      32.283 
SENSITIVITY ANALSIS
SENSITIVITY TESTS
WiV AS A I                                                                                                                               .
PRESENT              OF PRtESENT           INTERNAL.f
VALUE AlOCC          COSIS Al~ DUATEW OF
TEST EASES    TESI CASE VARIATIPNS                   OF 13.50              OF 1M.50             RETURN
-4-                                             -  .--- ----- ---- -----..... ..-.
BASE CASE                                                    696.5                130.31             23
TESI CASE  I  CIO                LIP   202                   564.1                71.12             26.5! 
TEST CASE  2  830                NUN 20!                     424.6                64.2!             25.3!
WAPT I
February 1986



- 102 -
Annex 4
Attachment 11
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sumiary of ERR Estimates for Different Project Components
Estimated
Project Components                   Economic Cost        % of Total Cost  a/          ERR
(US$ 000) (0)
A. Road Maintenance Program
1.  Gravel Roads                     3,898                  28                     28
2.  Paved Roads                      3,035                  21                     70
Sub-Total (A)                   6,933                   49                     39
B. Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
1.  South Bank Road (150 km)        2.217                   16                     34
2.  Bund Road (3.5 kas)                995                   7                     32
3.  Brumen Bridge                      997                   7                     49
Sub-Total (B)                   4,209                   30                     37
Total of A and B                       11,142                  79                      38
a/  Total project costs, excluding price contingencies - US$14,125,000; no benefits were
quantified for 21% of these costs, consisting of US$2,433,000 (17%) for institutional
strengthening, and US$550,000 (4%) PPF advance (the latter being treated as a sunk
cost).
WAPT1
February 1986



16'
T HE G AM B IA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK
Second Highway Moinlenonce Proied:                 Notionoal Roads:                            *      Airport
Rehobilitotion:                                    Paved                                      0     Towns
_            Paved Roads -taterite                                                                             Rivers
Br-dge                                           Earth                                     e      Notional Copitol
Periodic Maintenance:                            Local Roads:                                       1r.'. rnotionol Boundc
Paved Roads                                      Paved
Gtovel Roads                                     toterite
First Hlghwry Moaitenonce Pro1ei             A     MWC Division Offices
Periodic Maintenance.                            Limit of MWC Mointenonce Divisions
Paved Roods ,                                  Part
Grove! loads                  *                Rive, Wharves
To Koniu. &                                                                                     /   Kaur    ->-Cha
K Kt'
;  _.____.+   _.___._._.__   ___________   _                                        \_          | I    Ngeyesn   /      D
,4                                   \                                    Jlo,vuro                           farfSnte1
,  B\nni      Niabo Kundo                       Dip hun           s      eCho 
Bokos        Ess.u                NOR(rH IdSIO                                           B                           do ,}    unDa_o
Kat njor   \                                                     Keren    San allle
Kots,  NJUL  t        KuntOir                                         T~~~~~~~~~~endabo Ma  noAmbl                           J
Brssfut      t                                                                     rd               ,-Sts 
- Sonyotng                                                                                 Sonkc       I Brme B'n ong   >              'di
_       {komo t           tbo ~~~~~~~Soto~                 o~ n                          oig
sc-: ~~~~'   9 ~~Biniango                                                                   gelE a ga a
Gunjur            W EST                      Bojono             D  I V  I S  I          N'
Kofttng                Oo..,.
S E N E G A L
I?                                                                                                                      SENEGAL
101~
A-10



IBRD 1-
I                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
Airporl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~       ----
Towns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            l
-  untour ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~       ----~
Tendj,. ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         f,. -
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~jjnoI CapitalAgalYor                             u
iot.onol Boundorses ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 41Tnd                        att
U Wharf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAURI       
A    L                                                                                                                     SENEGAL M
v.~~~~~~~~~~~~~do  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                           U I Ng EK A~u 
- U     - -                                          SIU ERRA    Ftto
C~~~~~~~~Ob
G   U  I N   E A    B I S S A  U                                                                   LIBERIAo~um
Gonibissoro  '. ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     JAUA






