Downasut of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCUIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4251-GM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 5.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
March 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dalasis (D)
US$ 1.0 = D 5.2 1/
D 1.0 = US$ 0.19
US$ 1.0 = SDR 1.11
FISCAL YEAR
Julv 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)               =     3.28  feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)            10.76  square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)             35.3   cubic feet (cu ft)
1 hectare (ha)                  2.47  acres
I kilometer (km)                0 0.62  mile fmi)
I square kilometer (kM2)        0.39  square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)          =     2,205 pounds (lb)
I liter (1)                     0.26  UTS gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRON-YMS
AfDF      African Development Fund
EEC       European Economic Community
GPA       Gambia Port Authority
GPMR      Gambia Produce Marketing Board
GPTC      Gambia Public Transport Company
GRTA      Gambia River Transport Authority
-.RTC     Gambia River Transport Company
GTTI      The Gambia Technical Training Institute
.UC       Gambia Utility Corporation
MDI       Management Development Institute
MED       Mechanical Fngineering Division
MEPID     Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
MF&T      Ministry of Finance and Trade
rMWC      Ministry of Works and Communications
ODA(UK)   Overseas Development Administration (UK)
FWD       Public Works Department
SIDA      Swedish International Development Association
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
LTISO     United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
USAID     United States Agency for InternAtional Development
1/ As of February 20, 1986. A flexible exchange rate system went into
effect on January 20, 1986.



- t -              FIkOR OMCAUL USE ONLY
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of The Gambia
Credit Amount: SDR 5.3 million (US$ 5.8 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Co-Lenders:    IDA (US$5.8 million equivalent); AfDF (US$4.5 million
equivalent); EEC (US$2.0 million equivalent); UNSO
(US$0.6 million equivalent) and UNDP (US$0.7 million
equivalent).
Project
Description:   The project would support the efforts of the Ministry  of
Works and Communications (MWC) in carrying out its
four-and-one-half-year    (1986    to   mid-1990)    road
maintenance program which is comprised of the following
components:   (a) rehabilitation of part of the paved
network; (b) continuation and expansion of routine and
periodic road maintenance programs; (c) strengthening of
the organisation and management of MWC to improve the
efficiency of road and equipment maintenance; (d)
introduction of sound transport planning procedures; and
(e) assistance to domestic contractors to enable their
more   effective   participation   in  road  maintenance
activities.
Project
Benefits and
Risks:         The  main  benefits  of  the  proposed  project would  be
improvement in the physical condition of The Gambia's
road network and in the functional efficiency of MWC.
These two aspects are essential in the protection of
highway investments, the reduction of vehicle operating
costs, and the prevention of rising road user costs as a
result  of worsening  road  conditions.   Other benefits
include the positive effects on agricultural production
because of reduced transport costs. Based on the satis-
factory implementation of the First Highway Maintenance
Project (1979) and the commitment of the Government to
reorganize MWC and improve its management procedures,
there would be no major risks concerning project imple-
mentation. However, further aggravation of The Gambia's
economic situation could limit the timely availability of
the Government's contribution of funds for maintenance.
This document has a rsdcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
I of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



- it -
THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summary Project Cost Estimte
- USS Thousands -
Estimated Cost                                Local      Foreign   Total
1. Road Maintenance Program
(a) Regravelling, Resealing, Paving          367      1,570      1,937
(b) Routine Road Maintenance                 946      1,513      2,459
(c) Feeder Road Maintenance   .              172        401        573
(d) Equipment and Vehicles                     0      1,748      1,748
(e) Road Maintenance and Workshop Mgmt.      160      1,430      1,590
2. Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
(a) Bund Road                                188        784        972
(b) South Bank Road                          376      1,558      1,934
(c) Brumen Bridge                            172        748        920
3. Institutional Strengthening
Ca) Planning, Studies, and Auditing           40        360        400
Cb) Management and Training for MWC           39        351        390
(c) Study and Training for
Domestic Contractors                       4          36        40
(d) Equipment, Materials,
and Courses for MWC                      70         110       180
4. Repayment of PPF Advance                      55         495       550
Base Cost (February 1986)                  2,589      11,104    13,693
Physical Contingencies                        81         352       433
Price Contingencies                          487       1,789     2,276
Total Project Cost a/                      3,157      13,245    16,402
Financing Plan (Rounded)                      Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                                             580       5,220     5,800
UNSO                                            115         485       600
AfDF                                            480       4,020     4,500
EEC                                              35       1,965     2,000
UNDP                                             70         630       700
Government                                    1,877         925     2,802
Total                                         3,157      13,245    16,402
a/  Project items are exempt from all taxes and duties except for a small
amount from local contracts for road maintenance activities.



- iii-
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ Millions)              FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91  FY92
Annual                  1.6    1.4    1.2    0.7   0.6   0.3
Cumulative              1.6    3.0    4.2    4.9   5.5   5.8
Economic Rate of Return
The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the project, based on
quantifiable benefits covering about 79% of overall cost, is about 38Z.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5798-GM, Dated February 28, 1986
Map: IBRD 18944



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS.ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE AMBIA FOR
THE SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of The Gambia for SDR 5.3 million
(US$5.8 million equivalent) to help finance the Second Highway Maintenance
Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Additional external
financing for the project will be provided by a loan from The African
Development Fund (AfDF) in the amount of US$4.5 million equivalent on IDA's
same terms. The European Economic Community (EEC) is expected to provide a
grant of US$2.0 million equivalent.   In addition,  the United Nations
Sudano-Sahelian Office (UNSO) would provide a grant of US$0.6 million, and
UNDP a grant of US$0.7 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on The Gambia dated September 6, 1985
(The Gambia - Development Issues and Prospects Report No. 5693-GOM has been
circulated to the Executive Directors. Its conclusions are reflected in
the following assessment of the state of the economy and its prospects.
Country data appear in Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.        The Republic of The Gambia comprises a narrow east-west strip of
land bordering the Gambia River and surrounded on three sides by the
Republic of Senegal.  The terrain is extremely flat, maximum elevation
being only 35 meters above sea level. Three regions can be distinguished
from the mouth of the River inland:  the mangrove belt, which extends
upstream for over 240 km; the "bantofaros", areas that become swamps in the
rainy season and parts of which are under rice cultivation; and, finally,
the plateau of the eastern portion of the country which is intensively
cultivated in groundnuts, millet, and other crops.
4.        The population (about 700,000 in 1983) is predominantly rural,
some 75Z of the work force being engaged in agriculture and animal husband-
ry. Average population density is 90 persons per km2 of arable land and
reaches higher levels in some areas. Population pressure and persistently
disappointing harvests have in recent years prompted emigration to urban
districts and aggravated urban employment, particularly in and around the
capital and commercial center of Banjul.
Structure of the Economy
5.        The Gambian economy is traditionally centered on the production
of groundnuts. its major foreign exchange earner. Apart from groundnuts,



-2-
cereals (millet, sorghum and rice) and livestock represent the principal
products of the agricultural sector. Manufacturing activity is limited,
with the principal activities being groundnut crushing and a few modest
manufacturing enterprises supplying the domestic market, all of these
located in Banjul. Fishing resources exist but appear to be substantially
underexploited at present.  The country is heavily dependent on trade,
importing about half of its food supplies, all of its fuel and capital
goods and most other manufactured goods. Exports are highly concentrated ,
with a single commodity, groundnut products, accounting for 85-90Z of the
value of domestic exports. Other domestic exports include small amounts of
fish, hides and skins, cotton, and palm kernels.
6.        Outside  of agriculture,  the most  important features of the
economy are its tourism industry, and a well-developed commercial sector,
which for most of The Gambia's history has been involved in reexport trade
to other countries in the region. This trade expanded rapidly in the
1970s, as The Gambia maintained its traditional open-trade policy, while
neighboring countries increasingly resorted to high tariffs and quotas to
protect domestic industries. The Gambia's small size, substantial openness
and heavy dependence upon a single export crop make it an inherently
vulnerable economy, highly sensitive to shortfalls in agricultural prouuc-
tion caused by drought and to changes in the terms of trade.
Evolution of the Economy
7.        In the 1960s and 1970s, The Gambia grew at close to 5Z per year,
one of the best performances in Africa. It had a strong currency and a
sound budgetary situation. However, over the past decade, The Gambia has
seen its economy deteriorate progressively. Real GDP growth rate -- 1.4%
on average per annum -- has been one of the lowest of any country in Africa
not affected by war and civil strife.  Given the estimated population
growth rate of 3.4% per year, this implies a loss of at least 20% in per
capita income in the last 10 years. The average per capita income in 1984
was only US$260. Underlying the poor performance of GDP, there has been a
significant downward trend in groundnut production despite encouraging
increases in food crop production. However, the dramatic shift in the
economy is also the result of longer-term changes in the structure of the
economy induced by past investments, the rapid growth of the public sector
and high urban migration.
8.        The public sector grew rapidly as a result of The Gambia's
investment effort which started in the mid-1970s, largely because, given
the country's low level of development, investment was initially channeled
into basic economic and social infrastructure (roads, schools, agricultural
extension stations, health clinics, etc.) and civil servants were rapidly
recruited to furnish new services.  Between 1976 and 1980, established
posts in the government doubled and by 1981/82, the share of GDP absorbed
by government expenditures increased to 41%. By 1983, the public sector
(government administration and public enterprises) accounted for two-thirds
of total modern wage employment.



-3-
9.        Until the late 1970s, The Gambia was able to maintain broad
balance of payments equilibrium in large part thanks to the central govern-
ment and to the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), a parastatal organ-
ization. The marketing board was able to maintain stable prices to farmers
over the period,  thereby  encouraging production for export.   Although
producer prices were kept fairly stable, farm incomes were not, and income
declines in years of bad harvests tended to depress the demand for imports
along with the fall in exports.  At the same time, the Government main-
tained a surplus on its current budget, which, along with foreign grants
and highly concessional aid, was used to finance a modest level of public
investment.
10.       Beginning in the late 1970s the public sector shifted from a
position of overall surplus to significant and growing deficits substan-
tially exacerbating the inherent instability of the Gambian economy. Rapid
growth of public sector employment and development expenditures contributed
to large increases in imports due to the high import consumption of the
fast-growing urban population, especially public sector wage earners, and
the high import component of general government expenditures and develop-
ient projects.   These  factors  created  a  "structural  deficit"  in The
Gambia's trade: domestic exports (as distinct from reexports), even in a
good year, were increasingly unable to generate foreign exchange sufficient
to cover the cost of domestic imports (principally fuel, foodstuffs, and
capital  goods).   At  the  same  time,  the  softening  world  prices  for
groundnuts and the hike in the world oil prices combined to bring about a
serious deterioration in The Gambia's terms of trade. In 1982, these stood
at one-third of the level attained in the mid-1970s.
11.       The above factors brought about a significant deterioration of
the overall current account from 1979 to 1983.  Severe adjustments that
might otherwise have been necessary were to some extent averted by a
massive increase in external assistance to The Gambia in 1980-81 in the
aftermath of a severe drought and an attempted coup d'etat in July 1981.
Total (net) resource flows rose to roughly US$85 million a year, double the
average level of previous years; the inflow of foreign resources was equal
to 35-40X of The Gambia's GDP. As a result of this assistance (about half
of which was grant aid) the country was able not only to maintain annual
investment at close to 20Z of GDP but also to avoid a decline in consump-
tion.
12.       When capital inflows returned to more normal levels beginning in
1982, consumption -- particularly government consumption - proved diffi-
cult  to  restrain.   Arrears on  external  payments  accumulated  rapidly,
reaching nearly US$60 million (equal to 32% of GDP) by June 1984. As a
result of the rapid deterioration of the balance of payments, the official
exchange rate for the dalasi, which had been pegged at D 4.00 per pound
sterling since  1974,  could not be maintained.   In February 1984,  the
Government implemented a 25X devaluation, to D 5.00 per pound sterling.



-4-
Government Response
13.       Since 1980, the Government has made several attempts to adjust
the economy, including negotiations of two Stand-by Arrangements with the
IMF.  In 1981, the Government received various forms of immediate financial
support firom the Fund, including SDR 9 million in "compensatory financing"
and two Trust Fund loan disbursements. These were followed by a one-year
Stand-by Arrangement of SDR 16.9 million adopted in February 1982. The
Stand-by program aimed at lowering the public sector deficit through
reductions in consumer subsidies and selective tax increases, and stinulat-
ing production through higher purchase prices for groundnuts and rice. The
program produced mixed results. The fiscal deficit was reduced from 21% to
142 of GDP, although this was entirely accomplished through increased
revenues and a drastic compression of expenditures on material and current
supplies; government wages and salaries actually increased by nearly 30%
under the program. There also appears to have been a significant supply
response to the producer price increases: groundnut area planted rose to
the highest level ever and production reached a record 150,000 tons.
Unfortunately, however, these results coincided with a sharp decline in
world groundnut prices.
14.       Continued balance of payments deterioration in 1983/84, a decline
in real GDP associated with poor rainfall and crop production, and an
increase in the fiscal deficit led the authorities to negotiate a further
Stand-by Arrangement in early 1984. Policy adjustmentt. under the new SDR
12.8 million Stand-by program (covering the period April 1984-July 1985)
included the 252 devaluation mentioned earlier, producer price increases
plus stiff price increases to reduce subsidies on rice, fertilizers and
public transport. On the expenditure side, the Government adopted a hiring
freeze, except for pressing emergencies, and limits on supplementary
appropriations. Monetary adjustments included increases in interest rates
on deposits and guidelines to limit commercial bank credit to the private
sector. Although the Government implemented the agreed measures, it was
not able to meet the June 1984 targets for reductions in external arrears
and net credit to the Government, the GPMB, and the private sector. As a
result, after one disbursement of SDR 2.63 million, the program was effec-
tively cancelled on April 22, 1985.
15.       The macroeconomic adjustments undertaken in early 1984 constitut-
ed a notable effort by the Government to redress The Gambia's external and
fiscal deficits. However, the exceptionally low (45,000 tons marketed)
1984/85 groundnut crop caused real GDP to decline by 92 and seriously
exacerbated the acute shortage of foreign exchange.   Significantly, al-
though rainfall was uneven in some parts of the country, the low groundnut
crop appears to have been less the result of drought than of inadequate
price incentives and institutional weaknesses, which continue to have a
crippling effect on the economv. According to the Ministry of Agriculture,
several thousand hectares were prepared for groundnut cultivation but could
not be planted due to the late distribution of seeds. Pest infestation was
also unusually severe, in part associated with the lack of fuel and pesti-
cides for the Ministry's crop protection services. As a result, many of the



- ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     5
potential benefits of the 1984 devaluation as well as of the high world
groundnut prices were not realized.
16.       In  recent months, The Gambia's situation has become increasingly
serious. Record low groundnut export revenues (US$16 million) and increas-
ing external debt service due (US$18 million, in-luding IMF charges and
repurchases) in 1984/85 have produced a further deterioration of the
current account deficit: from 17Z of GDP in 1983/84 to 25Z in 1984/85. As
net capital inflows were not sufficient to finance this deficit, additional
external arrears which at end 198,4 had reached US$8.6 million, increased by
another US$7.5 million at end 1985. The continued accumulation of arrears
is already having a negative impact on disbursements.   However,  it is
expected that an IMP agreement would be followed by a debt rescheduling
agreement which would bring debt service more in line with The Gambia's
ability to pay.
The Recovery Program
17.       Faced with increasing economic and financial difficulties, the
Government in recent months has become convinced of the need for a
comprehensive set of macroeconomic policy adjustments. in June 1985, it
moved quickly to develop, in consultation with the World Bank, an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), which addresses both the need to improve the
productive capacity of the economy through alleviating existing supply
constraints and the need to pursue prudent demand management policies on a
sustained basis in order to overcome the present internal and external
imbalances.  In July 1985, an IMF mission visited The Gambia and agreed
with the Government on an adjustment program, more comprehensive than the
previous abortive program. An IMF Stand-by, however, was not put in place
due to The Gambia's mounting arrears to the Fund which have still to be
settled. However, the reforms agreed with the IMF were incorporated into
the ERP which the Cabinet approved in August 1985. The major elements of
the recovery programs are: price incentives and institutional reforms to
achieve a rapid expansion of agriculture production, both groundnuts and
food crops; removal of disincentives and other measures to stimulate faster
growth in other productive sectors (industry, fisheries, tourism); adoption
of a flexible exchange rate system; civil service retrenchment; a
significant reduction in government consumption and a strong shift in the
composition of current expenditures to achieve a more productive balance
between expenditures on wages and salaries and expenditures on current
supplies; and adoption of a stringent core program of public investment
focused on (i) quick-gestation projects producing traded goods, and (ii)
rehabilitation projects which include donor support for recurrent costs and
lead to higher utilization of existing capacity.
18.       The Governme=t has moved quickly under the ERP to introduce the
envisaged reforms and a number of measures have already been taken,
including the introduction of the exchange rate reform, increases in the
*price of both agricultural products and inputs and elimination of consumer
food subsidies, particularly on imported rice. The Government also laid
off over 1,000 temporary staff in the ministries, and has well in hand



- 6 -
steps to lay off a further similar number. The new flexible exchange rate
system went into effect on January 20, 1986 with the assistance of a
technical adviser from the IMF. In support of this system, liberalised
licensing and exchange control procedures were also announced. The success
of the reform program could, however, be constrained by the crippling
scarcity of foreign exchange over the near-term. Reflecting this scarcity,
by February 20, 1986, the Dalasi had depreciated by 50% vis-a-vis the pound
sterling.  Without, in particular, a rapid so'ution to the arrears problems
(specifically the arrears to the IMF) it is difficult to begin dealing
with the longer-term problem, given the sequential link between an IMF
program, debt rescheduling, gap filling and expanded commitments. With the
assistance of the Bank, the IMF and bilateral donors, the Government is
currently making a major effort to mobilize donors' support for its
economic recovery program while it is trying at the same time to make
separate arrangements for bridging finance in order to clear its arrears to
the IMF and pursue negotiations with this institution.
19.       Despite  the  courageous  steps  taken  by  the  Government  to
liberalize prices, adjust the exchange rate and reduce public employment, t
very recent information indicates that the reforms have been slowed down by
poor credit and fiscal management.  In the period July to December 1985
money supply was allowed to expand much faster than envisaged in the
adjustment program prepared in consultation with the IMF. Consequently, a
new program with revised targets will need to be agreed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
20.       To date,  the Bank Group has extended eleven credits  to The
Gambia, totalling US$56.3 million. Of these, three were in the transport
sector, three in the agricultural sector and one each in tourism, educa-
tion, rural and urban enterprises, energy and urban development. Project
implementation has in general been satisfactory as far as the execution of
the physical targets is concerned. The disbursement performance has also
been reasonablv good and compares well with other countries in West Africa
with similar profiles.  Institution building, however, has lagged behind,
largely due to a dearth of skilled personnel in most agencies. The situa-
tion has improved somewhat in the last five years, as IDA projects are
being increasingly designed with objectives better adapted to existing
manpower constraints in the country. Our policy dialogue was minimal in
the 1970s and, though it developed progressively, it remained project
oriented, with the IMF being the only institution conducting a macroeconom-
ic dialogue. This too has changed as our lending has become increasingly
policy-based.   Both projects approved in FY84  (the Second Agricultural
Development and the Urban Management and Development Projects) addressed
major policy issues.
21.       Given The Gambia's urgent need to reverse current adverse finan-
cial and economic trends, the Bank Group, in close cooperation with the
IMF, is assisting the Gambian authorities in the elaboration and implemen-
tation of the Economic Recovery Program. This is a crucial and necessary
step for improving the country's prospects in the short-term, medium-term



and long-term, as it would help in mobilizing BOP assistance, negotiating
debt rescheduling and stimulating an increase in project aid commitments.
In support of such a program, a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) is under
preparation.   The  acute  shortage  of  foreign  exchange,  together  with
inadequate policies, remains the main obstacle to a recovery of the econo-
my. The proposed SAC would finance most urgently needed imports of capital
goods and inputs. The adjustment effort will have to be sustained over a
number of years given the structural nature of the Gambian problems. The
country will also continue for quite some time to face a considerable
foreign exchange shortage. We are, therefore, considering a second SAC
operation to follow the one currently in preparation.
22.       While we expect to be heavily involved in the near future in
supporting macroeconomic policy changes and improved economic management,
in assisting the Government in debt rescheduling and mobilizing the
international community in support of The Gambia's rehabilitation program,
the Bank will continue to support The Gambia through project lending in key
sectors.   Consistent  with  a  strategy  that  emphasizes  more  effective
utilization of the existing capacity, we are preparing projects that focus
on helping the Government rehabilitate essential economic, physical and
social infrastructure.
23.       Agriculture. Improving the performance of the agricultural sector
is critical for sustained edonozic growth in The Gambia. The Gambia has
good quality arable land, reasonable rainfall and diversified cropring
patterns. Yet over the past ten years agricultural production has declined
by 1.4% on average per year; food imports have continued to increase and
now represent the largest item on the country's import bill. Drought as
well as inadequate government policies and institutional weaknesses have
contributed to the sector's poor performance. The mair. policy issues which
need to be addressed by the Government in order to revitalize the sector
are: (i) appropriate producer prices; (ii) inefficient marketing; (iii)
input delivery, which has been most unsatisfactory both in terms of quanti-
ties and timeliness; (iv) difficulties in sustaining a viable system of
agricultural credit; and (v) development projects and credit schemes which
have ignored the role played by women in agriculture, particularly rice
production.
24.       The  IDA-supported  Second  Agricultural  Development  Project,
approved in FY84, the Government's largest investment in the agricultural
sector, addresses the above issues, with particular emphasis on prices,
input delivery and extension.  The project will also help strengthen the
extension system and reorganize the Ministry of Agriculture as well as
increase the availability of seeds. To improve our knowledge of the sector
we plan to intensify our agricultural sector work.
25.       Transport.  In this sector, our basic objective is to strengthen
and   improve   maintenance   management   and   streamline   institutions.
Substantial investments were undertaken under the first and second five
year plans to expand the paved road network, the Banjul Port and the Yundum
Airport.  The Government has, I-owever, been unable to meet the growing



-8-
maintenance requirements of its investments. The ongoing Second Banjul
Port and First Highway Maintenance projects address priority rehabilitation
and maintenance needs in the sector. The proposed Second Highway Mainte-
nance Project will address the long overdue periodic maintenance
requirements of the paved road network; it will also deal with a number of
important issues: (i) the organization and management of the Ministry of
Works and Communications; and (ii) reassessment of the Government's
priorities in the transport sector. River transport plays an important role
in  The  Gambia.   It  is  used  for  moving  groundnuts  and  bulk  goods
(fertilizer, cement, etc.). Yet river transport vessels and wharves are in
dire need of repair to avoid breakdowns, which would affect groundnut
evacuation and fertilizer distribution and thus have a direct bearing on
export production.
26.       Water and Electricity Supply.  The rapidly expanding population
in the Banjul area (at a rate of over 6% p.a. in the last 10 years) has
strained the existing water supply facilities, causing frequent water
shortages and increasing health hazards. It has also caused an overload of
the  existing  electricit:y  distribution  system.   A  proposed  Water  and
Electricity Project will rehabilitate and reinforce the existing systems
and supply distribution capacity. An important objective of the project is
to strengthen the m-nagement and operations of The Gambia Utilities
Corporation (GUC), currently incurring large financial losses due to a low
tariff policy.
27.       Industry.  Prospects appear reasonably good for resource-based
processing activities. To be able to assist the Government in formulating
a program of action for this sector as well as other small scale enterprise
activities such as construction, fisheries, trade and agriculture, small
scale enterprise review was undertaken in February 1986. A report on the
mission's findings is currently being prepared and could form the basis for
a possible SSE project. Technical assistance for the financial and organ-
izational restructuring of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
(GCDB), the largest commercial bank and only term-lending institution in
the country, is being contemplated under the proposed SAC operation.
28.       Health and Population.  Although the Government has taken steps
in policy and programs to improve the country's health situation, progress
in reducing morbidity, mortality and fertility rates has been discouraging-
ly slow. The country's high levels of poverty and illiteracy are important
constraints to an effective health care delivery system. However, an
important part of the problem stems also from the incapacity of the system
to finance recurrent costs and from shortcomings in the core infrastructure
of the services delivery system. With IDA assistance, the Government is
preparing a Population and Health project which will assist with financing
and policy reforms (through introducing cost recovery mechanisms) in
meeting short-term recurrent cost problems, and would undertake selected
long-term    investments    in   manpower   development,    communication,
infrastructure  and  analytical  capacity.   The  project will  also help
strengthen family planning as well as assist the Government in developing a
comprehensive family planning policy.



-9-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
29.       The transport system links the interior of the country with the
capital and principal port of Banjul at the mouth of the Gambia river and
provides for north-south overland transport corridors connecting Northern
and Southern Senegal. The system consists of a relatively well-developed
road network comprising some 510 km of paved roads, 800 km of laterite
gravel roads and about 1,080 km of earth roads and tracks. Because the
river separates the country in two, a partial duplication of road facili-
ties on the river's northern and southern sides has taken place. The river
is navigable for vessels up to about 4,000 dwt fully laden as far as the
port of Kaur, some 230 km upstream, and for smaller craft over the remain-
ing 120 km portion in The Gambia. The river system can be crossed in seven
places by vehicular ferries. The Gambia has an international airport at
Yundum, some 20 km from Banjul, but no railway, aviation or maritime
shipping lines (Map IBRD 19844).
30.       Port facilities at Banjul are undergoing renewal and expansion
under the IDA-financed Second Port Project (Credit 1266-GM of September
1982). After project completion, the port's capacity will be adequate for
the foreseeable future. Present annual traffic consists of about 285.000
tons of dry cargo and 44,000 tons of petroleum products as imports, and
12,000 tons of groundnut oil as exports.
31.       Banjul airport is adequately equipped and includes one of the
longest runways (3,600 m) in West Africa. Terminal facilities are modest
and require only minor improvements to handle some 120,000 passenger
movements per year,  60Z of whom travel on charter flights.   Gambian
Airlines handles ground services only.
32.       Passenger transport is provided by the private sector which uses
mostly minibuses in competition with the Government-owned Gambia Public
Transport Company (GPTC) which operates about 50 large buses for urban,
suburban, rural and tourist services. Passenger transport by river is
negligible, except for the vehicle ferry services and small ferry boats.
33.       Freight is carried by about 500 trucks, mostly privately owned,
and by an aging and deteriorated fleet (para 25) of 50 barges and 8 tugs
owned by the Gambia River Transport Company (GRTC). Commodities transport-
ed by river are especially groundnuts and other bulky goods such as cement
and fertilizer. The annual volume of river transport ranges from 60,000 to
110,000 tons, mostly depending on harvest results. All ferries are in poor
condition and many of the smaller ones are frequently out of service. The
ferry boats and ramps for the ferry at Banjul are to be rehabilitated with
German assistance, and financing is being sought from the Government of
Japan for the replacement of ferry boats at the Trans-Gambian highway
crossing. Ferry services have been operating at a substantial loss but a
recent tariff increase of 75X aims at remedying this. Furthermore, efforts



-10 -
will be made to collect all ferry charges from Senegalese vehicles in
convertible CFA Francs.          Li
34.       Transport sector administration is predominantly the responsibil-
ity of the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) which supervises
directly the national road network. Banjul city and Kanifing Urban Dis-
trict (near Banjul) are, in principle, responsible for about 70 km of paved
streets. Gravel and earth roads and tracks in rural areas come under local
jurisdictions. In practice, MWC is the only organization doing regular
road maintenance, and provides ad-hoc assistance for roads under other
jurisdictions.   The local road network  is generally adequate for the
country's needs, except in the Northeast. About 80% of all villages are
within 5 km of a road or track, and the main transport activity (ground-
nuts) occurs in the dry season. Local authorities and communities carry
out road repairs as needed and when funds are available. About 420 km of
local tracks have been upgraded since 1978 to semi-engineered gravel
standard (6 m wide) under the UNSO Feeder Road Program, and maintenance
responsibility for 246 kn has been handed over to MWC. A further 83 km are
about to be upgraded by UNSO, with EEC financing, in the Northeast.
35.       CPA and GPTC are financially and operationally autonomous agen-
cies under MWC, but ferry, bus and port tariffs have to be approved by The
Government. Both GPTC and GPA have operated at a loss in recent years.
The latter has been losing money because of low ferry tariffs (para 33).
G2RTC forms part of the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) which falls
under the Ministry of Agriculture. GPMB is the dominant user of river
transport, but uses road transport when cheaper or more convenient.
Transport coordination has therefore largely been the result of operational
practices by GPMB rather than the outcome of careful planning. The role of
river transport in the future development of The Gambia will be assessed
under the project (para 62), and the resulting investments, if justified,
and institutional aspects would then be the object of a possible River
Transport Project. Road and river transport freight rates are not regulat-
ed, although GPMB sets rates for its own freight movements.  How&cver,
passenger fares are established by the Government.
36.       Transport planning has not been an effective and integrated
activity of Government. The Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development (MEPID) does some investment coordination but no detailed
transport planning. MWC has a Planning Unit covering all activities of the
Ministry. The Unit is headed by an economist who has planning experience
but only limited exposure to the transport sector. The unit has for the
past five years been assisted by an expatriate advisor, mainly for MWC's
building activities and almost all planning information for the sector has
been assembled by consultants for project related studies. The future role
and staffing of the Planning Unit has been discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations in the context of the review of the organization study for MWC
(paras 40 and 62).



- 11 -
37.       Transport sector investment has not always been based on sound
economic  and  technical  priorities.   Instead,  it  has  been  strongly
influenced by socio-political factors and donor agency preferences. As a
result, a number of transport investments have been either over-designed,
premature, or not economically justified. Most of these investments were
incurred between FY78/79 and FY81/82, and from FY84/85 to the present, when
upsurges in road investments took place. Following a severe deterioration
in economic conditions in The Gambia, transport investments will have to
decrease over the coming years. Moreover, it is declared Government policy
is to reduce the emphasis on transport in favor of other economic sectors
and, within the sector, 'to concentrate on maintenance and rehabilitation.
The proposed project will assist the Government through strengthening NWC's
Planning Unit in preparing three-year roll-over investment programs based
on priorities and studies to determine the needs and economic justification
of proposed investments  (para 62).  During negotiations,  agreement was
reached on the FY86/87-88/89 transport sector investment program.  The
Government assurances were also obtained that the three-year roll-over
investment programs and annual development and recurrent budgets for the
transport sector will be reviewed with the Association by May 1 of each
year, up to 1992. Furthermore, agreement has been reached that (i) urgent
rehabilitation of transport facilities will be given priority over other
transport investments; (ii) new transport investment and rehabilitation
will not be undertaken unless adequate economic feasibility studies have
been carried out, the estimated rate of return is at least 15Z, and can be
funded without recourse to funds for maintenance programs required under
the transport sector; (iii) the Association would be consulted before
undertaking new investments or rehabilitation in the transport sector that
exceed US$500,000 equivalent; and (iv) a methodology would be developed by
December 1, 1987, and agreed with the Association, for selecting feeder
roads to be upgraded.
38.       The treaty that established the Senegambia Confederation in 1982
envisages economic integration between the two neighboring countries.
Improvements of some short road sections connecting the two countries are
underway under auspices of the Confederation, but they are not expected to
significantly affect transport patterns in The Gambia during the project
period. Long term effects of the Confederation, on the other hand, could
be considerable but will largely depend on agreements for economic integra-
tion which are still under discussion.
The Roads Subsector
39.       The road system does not suffer from capacity constraints and
even the 11 Km Banjul-Serekunda section, which is now being rebuilt as a
four lane highway, does not have the congestion normally experienced in
capital cities.   Ferry capacity at various  river crossings can  cause
traffic delays, but this is primarily due to mechanical failures of fer-
ries. The Gambia has about 6,000 motor vehicles, but registration statis-
tics are  fl--ed.  The  Government  is  taking measures  to correct  this
deficiency.



- 12 -
40.       Road administration of the national network comes under the
Directorate of Technical Services (previously Public Works Department-PWD)
in MWC, through the Engineering Division which has the technical responsi-
bility for design, construction and maintenance of both roads and public
buildings; maintenance work is carried out by three provincial divisions
(Northern, Western and Eastern). The MWC Planning Unit and the Main Store
come under the Permanent Secretary and the Mechanical Engineering Division
(MED) comes under the Directorate of Technical Services. MWC's Main Store
supplies goods and materials to all government departments, and MED
maintains all public vehicles and equipment except those of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Police. The present MWC organization does not permit
efficient execution of road and equipment maintenance, or control of
operations between  the various  divisions.   Furthermore,  the  lines  of
responsibility within MWC and between head office and the provincial
divisions are not clearly defined.   To enable more efficient and cost
effective management of the road network, a study is being completed by
consultants to recommend the most appropriate organization, including
separation of MWC's buildings and other responsibilities from road
maintenance activities, and the role of NWC in transport planning (para
36). The proposed reorganization, which was discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations, defines and streamlines the functions, responsibilities and
accountability of each division and section in MWC. The enactment of the
new MWC structure is a condition of effectiveness.
41.       MWC has sufficient professional engineers to manage its opera-
tions; however further practical training is planned, under a Kuwait Fund
grant, for some of the civil engineers.  The Directorate of Technical
Services presently has a staff of 959 plus 335 temporary workers. Under an
ongoing Government program to reduce the size of the civil service, the
Directorate, at the end of 1985, reduced established staff by 77 positions
and temporary workers by 441 positions.   Several divisions are still
overstaffed at semi-skilled and unskilled working levels. The required
staffing levels and manpower development needs in MWC are being determined
by the reorganization study in coordination with the ongoing ODA sponsored
study on the reform of the entire civil service, which is scheduled to be
completed by June 1986.  Preliminary estimates for a reduction of the
employment 'orce of MWC were discussed at negotiations, and it was agreed
that target levels for the staff reductions will be worked out in line with
the civil service reform.
42.       Training operations are being conducted both internally, and at
local training institutions in the Banjul area.  These activities are
coordinated by the Chief Engineer (Engineering Division) with assistance
provided by consultants under the First Project and the USAID project (para
43). In-house training is centered around road maintenance activities, and
equipment and workshop management. In October and November 1985, MWC's
Deputy Chief Engineer and Training Officer participated in a seven-week
course, run by the ILO Training Center in Italy, Kenya and Tanzania,
financed under the First Project. During the course, an outline training
program for MWC was prepared by the two participants. In addition, MWC
personnel attend courses at The Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI)



- 13 -
and the Management Development Institute (MDI) on a released time basis.
Some of the GTTI courses are recognized in the United Kingdom and lead to
London City and Guilds Certificates. A major constraint to training is
extensive illiteracy at middle to lower staff levels. This issue is being
reviewed by IDA with the Ministry of Education regarding the development of
an in-house functional literacy program. The Second Project's training
component will support the continuation of ongoing activities with emphasis
on strengthening MRC's interhal training capability, as well as at GTTI and
MDI (para 61).
43.       Equipment management  is the main responsibility of MED.  The
centrai workshops, presently located near Banjul port in old flying boat
hangers, will be relocated in mid-1986 to a new facility, financed by
USAID, at Kotu about 14 km from Banjul. Consultants are preparing proce-
dures for equipment, workshop and stores management and will train local
staff and workshop instructors until the end of the USAID project in
September 1986. However, this will not provide sufficient training for
efficient management practices to be sustainable, and further assistance
will be provided under the project (para 50). To date, MED has not been
authorized' to charge fully for its services to the various government
ageucies.  A realistic charging system for mechanical services to enable
MED to function efficiently is being worked out by MWC and the USAID
consultants. During negotiations agreement was reached on the principles
of NED's charging system; the detailed list of charges will be submitted
for the Association's approval by June 1, 1986. Government's publication
of the charges to be paid to NED, together with adequate budget alloca-
tions, are a condition of Qffectiveness, with implementation to start by
July 1, 1986, the beginning of the Government's fiscal year.
44.       Accounting and internal auditing procedures have basically been
adopted from the British system.   There are, however, negligences and
inefficievcies in the follow up of the required procedures. Some training
in cost accounting was provided under the First Highway Maintenance Project
but further improvements are needed to consolidate the achievements and to
ensure accuracy and timely availability of pertinent information on such
matters as spending authorized through the approved budget. Consultants
under ongoing projects are installing systems for inventory control, stores
accounting, workshop job costing, and cost and performance accounting for
routine and periodic maintenance. These are simple systems which will be
adapted under the Second Project for microcomputer use.  Assistance to
install, operate and train staff in financial and cost accounting
procedures will be provided under the project (para 59). MWC's Internal
Audit Branch functions directly under the Ministry of Finance and Trade.
Its functions are to detect errors and lack of reliability of accounting
records and to ensure that Government procedures are adhered to. However,
MWC lacks sufficient qualified staff to carry out the above tasks
efficiently.   The  computerization of  records  together with  on-the-job
training and courses at MDI under the project should enable a small staff
of accountants and cost clerks to perform adequately.



- 14 -
45.       Revenue from road users is collected from taxes on fuel, lubri-
cants, vehicle and spare part imports, and annual licenses.   Fuel and
vehicle import taxes provide the bulk of the revenue. All revenue goes to
the national  treasury.   As a result of increases in internal prices,
because of devaluation, and shortages in local supplies, because of foreign
exchange shortfalls, fuel consumption has been decreasing since its peak in
1980. Although no annual traffic counts are available, traffic levels have
undoubtedly declined over recent years. Road user taxes yield more than is
required for road maintenance and overall road investment, including new
roads. No additional efforts are therefore required for resource mobiliza-
tion purposes, but a better allocation of scarce resources is needed as
outlined in paragraph 37.
46.       Road financing is provided through the recurrent budget,  the
development budget and external loans and grants.  The recurrent budget
finances expenditures for road maintenance. Because the various functions
of MWC are not clearly separated, data on road maintenance expenditures are
not precise. However, since FY77/78 the annual budget for supplies and
contracts has steadily declined.  The First Highway Maintenance Project
financed all costs (including wages) for regravelling and resealing works.
Under  the  Second  Project,  the  Government's  participation  in  routine
maintenance will be increased from mid-1987 (para 69). MWC staff salaries
come under a separate heading in the recurrent budget. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Government will modify the recurrent budget
presentation by providing separate budget allocations for each MWC
division, and will provide sufficient funds to undertake adequate annual
road maintenance programs.
47.       Transport sector rehabilitation and new construction projects are
financed mostly by loans and grants, with local funds provided from the
development  budget.   Development budget  levels  are  determined by  the
Ministry of Finance and Trade and have been governed more by the
availability and amount of foreign financing than priorities within and
between sectors. Over 40% of the development budget has, in the recent
past, been allocated to transport projects.   Bank economic missions are
currently discussing with the Goverment the need to reduce overall public
investment levels and to change sectoral distribution for the three-year
period  commencing FY86/87.   It  is  expected  that  less  funds will be
available for the transport sector and efforts need to be made for more
rational allocations as outlined in paragraph 37.
IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector
48.       The Bank Group has financed three projects in the transport
sector: the First Banjul Port Project (Credit 187-GM, US$2.1 million, May
1971), a Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 897-GM, US$5.0 million, March
1979), and the Second Banjul Port Project (Credit 1266-GM, SDR 5.9 million,
September 1982).  The First Port Project was satisfactorily completed in
late 1975, while the civil works under the Second Port Project were sub-
stantially completed in 1984. The'project costs are within the estimates,
but land reclamation works have been delayed because of unstable



- 15 -
foundations and will not be completed until mid-1987, about 18 months
beyond the original completion date. The delay will not unduly affect port
operations.
49.       Execution of the First Highway Maintenance Project proceeded
reasonably well, and the objectives of the project have been met satisfac-
torily or exceeded. The project was substantially completed in early 1986,
two years after the original completion date. The First Project consisted
of a four-year maintenance program, including routine maintenance of 780 km
of roads, regravelling of 190 km of major laterite roads, and studies for a
follow-up maintenance program and for exploration of locally occurring
aggregates.   The routine maintenance component has been successful in
prolonging the life of the existing paved road system. The regravelling
works have resulted in upgrading of important sections of the North Bank
Road. A small resealing unit was set up in 1983 and will complete some 22
km under the First Project. This operation, which was outside the original
project description, has been successful in salvaging a number of short
sections of roads especially in the Banjul area. Overall, the conditions
of the primary and secondary roads have not further deteriorated since the
start of the First Project, and the regravelled and resealed roads are in
much better condition than before.
50.       Fifteen cost clerks have received formal training locally and two
workshop personnel were sent for courses in the U.K. under the project,
while on-the-job training was provided for the staff of the regravelling
and resealing units as well as for 20 road foremen. At the start of the
project thera were no Gambian engineers in I4WC below senior management
level. The recent return of seven new civil engineering graduates should
enable  eventual   institutional   sustainability   of  road  maintenance
operations.
51.       The main problems which delayed the project were outside the
control of MWC.  The Government's insistence that spare parts and supplies
be procured through local suppliers, who carry little or no stock, resulted
in prolonging the down time of equipment requiring repairs. Shortage of
local funds compounded the difficulties. The procurement problem will be
addressed under the proposed project through the use of international
shopping (para 68), and funding constraints will be alleviated by the
setting up of a revolving funds for IDA and Government funds (paras 71 and
72).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The project was originally prepared under the First Highway
Maintenance Project. An advance of US$550,000 in the form of a Project
Preparation Facility (US$200,000 in July 1985 and a further US$350,000 in
December 1985) was granted to complete project preparation. Negotiations
were held in Banjul, February 5-12 1986. The Gambian delegation was headed
by Mr. Abdou N'Jie, Permanent Secretary, MinIstry of Economic Planning and
Industrial Development (MEPID) and included representative from MWC and the



- 16 -
Ministry of Finance and Trade. Supplementary data on this project are pre-
sented in Annex III.
Project Objectives
53.       The main objective of the project is to support 4WC in carrying
out a four-and-one-half-year (1986 to mid-1990) road maintenance and
upgrading program comprising: (i) continuation and expansion of the road
maintenance program initiated under the First Project; (ii) rehabilitation
of the highest priority sections of the paved network; (iii) strengthening
of the organization and management of MWC to improve the efficiency of road
and equipment maintenance; (iv) introduction of sound transport planning
procedures; and (v) assistance to domestic contractors to enable their more
effective participation in road maintenance activities.
54.       The IDA role in the highway sub-sector has been expanded through
intensive dialogue on all aspects related to the management of the road
network, and has stimulated the Government to make substantial improvements
in the organization of the subsector.  Also, IDA is now planning a more
active role in overall transport sector issues and priorities.  Continued
Bank involvement in the subsector would therefore be justified and would
(i)  contribute  to  str*engthening  the  Government's  resolve  to  address
priority maintenance and rehabilitation programs, (ii) improve management
capability in the sub-sector and (iii) encourage donors to support the
infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation needs of the country.
Project Description
55.       To assist in fulfilling the objectives, the project would provide
financial assistance for (a) Road Maintenance Program: (i) regravelling,
resealing and routine maintenance of the national and local road networks;
(ii) experimental low-cost paving of gravel road sections; (iii) equipment
and vehicles; and (iv) road maintenance and workshop management assistance;
(b) Road and Bridge Rehabilitation: (i) reconstruction of Bund Road (3.5
km), and strengthening of deformed sections along 150 km of the South Bank
Road; and (ii) reconstruction of Brumen Bridge; (c) Institutional Strength-
ening: (i) technical assistance to MWC for implementing its reorganization,
for transport planning and studies, and for auditing; (ii) training program
for MWC staff; and (iii) technical assistance and training for domestic
contractors.
The Road Maintenance Program
56.       Routine road maintenance operations presently come under the
responsibility of MWC's provincial divisions.  The length of roads to be
maintained by MWC will increase from the present 780 km to about 1,300 km
under the Project, comprising about 450 km of paved roads and 610 km of
gravel roads of the national network, as well as 45 km of paved local roads
in Banjul City and Kanifing Urban District and about 200 km of gravel local
roads which have national imiportance.  The most appropriate organization
and methodology for carrying out labor-based routine maintenance operations



- 17 -
will be tested under a two-year pilot project with ILO (SIDA financed).
This project started in early 1986, and will include maintenance of some 60
km of paved and 50 km *of gravel roads south of the Gambia river. Two
systems will be tested: (i) a lengthman system where 3 to 5 km would be
allotted to a person living nearby; and (ii) a petty contract system where
local communities would organize themselves into working gangs. The pilot
project would also test the use of tractor-towed graders for smoothing
low-trafficked  gravel  roads.   The  effectiveness  and  cost  of  these
operations will be monitored and compared with MWC's present procedures of
manual gangs travelling daily to work sites from the regional offices. The
preliminary results of the three systems will be reviewed jointly by IWC,
ILO, EEC, UNSO and IDA by Jume 1, 1987. This agreement was confirmed at
negotiations. Any modifications to MWC's routine maintenance practices and
equipment needs (para 63) would be incorporated into the annual road
maintenance programs from July 1, 1987.
57.       Periodic maintenance of national roads would continue to be
carried out by MWC with continued managerial and technical assistance by
consultants engaged under Ithe First Highway Maintenance Project.   All
periodic maintenance activities are presently carried out by force account,
except for some petty contracts for the extraction and supply of cockle
shells for resealing works.   Under  the project about 260 km will be
regravelled, 100 km resealed and a further 130 km fog sealed. The periodic
maintenance program would enable MWC to catch up on the work back-log and
to initiate systematic monitoring of road conditions and scheduling of
timely regravelling and resealing operations.
58.       Renewal  and  Operation  of MWC's  Road Maintenance  Equipment.
Regravelling, resealing and mechanized road maintenance operations will be
carried out with MWC's existing equipment. Past budget constraints and
foreign exchange shortages have not permitted replacement of aged units
since the start of the First Project, when some new equipment was procured
a-nd overhauls were carried out with assistance of consultants. Equipment
and vehicles, including initial stocks of spare parts, will be procured in
two batches under the project. The first batch will fill present gaps in
the fleet and replace aged units. The second, to be carried out after the
June 1, 1987 reviews of labor-based maintenance procedures (para 56) and
contractor participation in road maintenance (para 63), will replace
additional  aged  units.   Consideration  will  also  be  given  to  the
availability of UNSO equipment which is presently being used for their
feeder roads upgrading program in the Northeast. Spare parts, fuel, tools
and other imported materials required for road maintenance operations will
be  procured  under  the  project  using  international  suppliers  where
appropriate, to avoid the recurrent shortages in the local market experi-
enced under the First Project, and to ensure more efficient use of equip-
ment.
59.       Road Maintenance and Workshop Management.  In order to continue
the training of MWC staff in all areas of road maintenance management and
operations, the consultants financed under the First Project will continue
their services (125 m-m) over the project implementation period.  The team



-18-
will also include an accountant to assist in streamlining MWC's financial
accounting procedures and to firmly establish the costing system developed
under the First Project. In order to follow up on the USAID project, MWC
will also engage two specialists (25 m-m) to assist in managing the new
central workshop under MED and in running related training programs. MED's
main counterparts would be the senior mechanical engineer and the stores
superintendent  who would  receive  on-the-job  training.   The  technical
assistance would actively assist MWC staff in managing the road and equip-
ment maintenance operations up to mid-1988, after which assistance would be
limited to short-term visits over the remaining project implementation
period.  The terms of reference and counterpart staffing were agreed at
negotiations.
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
60.       Highest priority road sections along 150 km of the South Bank
Road will be strengthened under the project. In addition, the 3.5 km Bund
Road, which links Banjul Port to the South Bank Road, will be
reconstructed. The 117 m long, single lane, Brumen Bridge, built 20 years
ago, is in poor condition because of deterioration of the concrete super-
structure.   Under  the  project  the  piles  will  be  strengthened,  the
superstructure will be rebuilt to higher standards for heavy truck traffic,
and the deck widened to two-lane (9-lOm) width.
Institutional Strengthening
61.       Technical assistance (23 r-m) will be provided to assist MC in
implementing efficient management procedures under its new organization
(para. 40), and in preparation of reporting and monitoring requirements at
the different management levels. Training assistance (6 Ur-u) will have two
major objectives:   (i) to improve MWC management and use of personnel
through the development of effective personnel management policies and
procedures; and (ii) to improve MWC management capability and staff
productivity  through  various  training  and  upgrading  programs.   MWC's
Training Officer will be assisted in preparing details of the training
program by March 1, 1987, and in monitoring its effectiveness through
periodic visits during the project implementation period. The project will
also provide equipment, materials and supplies for upgrading MWC's offices
and for in-house training, and training at GTTI and MDI; support tuition
costs for selected GTTI and MDI courses; and finance expenses for overseas
seminars and work study tours for professional  staff.   The Personnel
Development Program for MWC and terms of reference for management and
training assistance were agreed at negotiations.
62.       The future role and functions of MWC's Planning Unit is being
determined under its reorganization. The Government's transport planning
capabilities require  strengthening  and 36 m-m  of assistance will be
provided under the project. Additionally, studies required to assess the
economic role of river transport in The Gambia will be carried out under
tae project (para 35). The function of MWC's Planning Unit and outline
terms of reference for technical assistance were agreed at negotiations.



- 19 -
63.       Domestic  Construction  Industry.   In order  to have  a better
knowledge of the physical and financial capacity of the small domestic
construction  industry,  a  consultant  (4 m-m) will be  engaged  to  (i)
undertake a six-week study and recommnend a plan of action to utilize more
effectively private firms in road and building maintenance activities, and
(ii) conduct courses and assist domestic contractors in improving their
efficiency and cost control. The study will be completed in early 1987, so
that MWC would be able to determine its future equipment requirements for
road  maintenance.   During inegotiations,  the  Government  confirmed  'ts
commitment to increase the use of contractors in road maintenance activi-
ties and agreement was reached on the terms of reference for the study and
traininig of domestic contractors.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
64.       The estimated total cost of the project including MWC salaries
and wages, and contingencies, is US$16.4 million equivalent. No duties or
taxes are to be levied against project items. except for those paid by
domestic contractors engaged in road maintenance activities. The foreign
exchange domponent is about US$13.2 million, or 80% of the total cost.
Basep costs have been estimated at February 1986 prices. Physical contingen-
cies average about 3% of base costs, and comprise IOZ for road and bridge
rehabilitation and 5% for institutional strengthening. In accordance with
normal practice, no physical contingencies are included for the road
maintenance program which covers a four-and-one-half-year (1986 to
mid-1990) time slice. Price contingencies average 17% of base costs plus
physical contingencies, and are based on estimated foreign inflation of 7X
for 1986 and 1987, about 7.5Z for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and
4.5% for 1991 onwards. Estimated rates of inflation on foreign costs have
been applied to both foreign and local costs.  This assumes that the
exchange rate (taken as US$1.0 - Dalasis ;.2 for base cost estimates) will
be adjusted for divergences between foreign and local rates of inflation.
Overall, about 220 i-m of technical, management and training assistance
will be provided under the project. Consultants will also supervise civil
works contracts and carry out transportation studies.
65.       The project will be externally financed by: IDA (US$5.8 million
equivalent), AfDF (US$4.5 million equivalent), EEC (US$2.0 million equiva-
lent) and UNDP (US$0.7 million equivalent). UNSO would cofinance feeder
road maintenance during calendar 1987-88 (US$0.6 million equivalent). SIDA
has separately provided US$120,000 equivalent for the ILO executed pilot
routine  maintenance  project.   IDA  will  retroactively  finance  up  to
US$300,000 for expenditures incurred from January 1, 1986 for the road
maintenance  program.   External  financing  for  periodic  and  routine
maintenance will cover 60% of total direct implementation operating costs
over the project period. The Government's contribution to the project will
amount to US$1.5 million equivalent for local expenditures and US$1.3
million equivalent for NWC salaries and wages. External financing will
cover 80% of total cost or 90%, excluding wages and salaries. Cross
effectiveness conditions have been provided with EEC, UNSO and UNDP.



- 20 -
Present Status of Proposed Project and Implementation
66.       The Permanent Secretary of MPW will have overall responsiblity
for implementation of the Project, with the Director of Technical Services
providing coordination of the maintenance program, road and bridge
rehabilitation and MED's workshop management.  Road maintenance, upgrading
and rehabilitation will be executed by the two new Rcads Divisions (East
and West); workshop management comes under MED and training would come
under the new Administrative Division to be established in MWC.   The
Permanent Secretary will directly oversee the transport planning component.
The road maintenance program has been fully prepared. Detailed engineering
for reconstruction of Bund Road and Brumen Bridge is underway and
preliminary cost estimates have been prepared. Because of the nature of
the South Bank Road strengthening (para 60) detailed surveying and design
will be carried out immediately prior to executing the works; quantity
estimates and specifications will be prepared by mid-1986. Rehabilitation
of Bund Road and the South Bank Road could be carried out under one
contract. The project is expected to be effective in July 1986 and to be
physically completed by June 30, 1991, which allows for a 12 month slippage
in executing the four-and-one-half-year maintenance program.
Procurement
67.       Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Method     Total
Project
Items to be Procured                 ICB    LCB   Other    NA b/   Cost
Equipment and vehicles and           1.7     -      0.4       -      2.1
initial stocks of spare parts         -       -    (0.4)      -     (0.4)
Road maintenance and paving c/       0.3    0.4    3.9       1.3 d/  5.9
(0.2)  (0.1)  (2.8)      -     (3.1)
Road and bridge rehabilitation       4.6      -     0.4       -      5.0
Technical assistance, studies
and training                        -       -     2.9       -      2.9
(1.8)     -      (1.8)
Refinancing PPF                       -       -      -       0.5     0.5
(0.5)   (0.5)
Total Project              6.6    0.4    7.6       1.8    16.4
(0.2)  (0.1)  (5.0)    (0.5)   (5.8)
a/ Amounts financed by IDA are in parentheses.
b/ Not applicable.
c/  Spare parts, fuel, lubricants, tools, petty contracts and materials.
d/ MWC salaries and wages.



-21 -
68.       Procurement of equipment, vehicles, non-proprietary spare parts
and bitumen products will be carried out under ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts for supply of goods and materials estimated to cost
less than US$10,000 equivalent (except for fuel), up to an aggregate of
US$200,000 equivalent (except for fuel), may be procured through local
shopping. Equipment and spare parts of a proprietary nature or subject to
standardization may be proc.tred with prior IDA agreement on the basis of
price quotations from at leas; three qualified suppliers, with at least two
of them operating internationally. Contracts for road maintenance activi-
ties up to US$100,000 may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally. Petty contracts (under US$10,000 equivalent) for road
maintenance activities would be negotiated, based on procedures and unit
rates established with assistance of the road maintenance consultants.
Consultants for technical assistance will be appointed in accordance with
Bank guidelines.  Force account operations will be permitted for road
maintenance and low-cost paving works.   All transactions in excess of
US$50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior approval by IDA.
Disbursements
69.       Although the project covers a four-and-one-half-year time slice,
disbursements are estimated to follow the historic disbursement profile for
highway projects in West Africa, i.e. six years, as was the case under the
First  Project.   However,  initial  disbursements  will  be  greater  than
historic levels due to refunding of the PPF advance and the initial advance
into the Special Account (para 71).  The credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by March 31, 1992. IDA financing of road maintenance activities
would be progressively reduced from mid-1987 with consequential increases
in MWC's road maintenance budget.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed
against the following categories, and on the basis of the estimated
disbursement schedule:



- 22 -
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Amount       Percent
Category       Description                          (USS millions)     Financed
I    Equipment and vehicles (including initial
stock of spare parts), office supplies and
mater'als                                           0.40          100%
2    Road maintenance and paving; direct operating
costs, excluding salaries and wages:                2.70
Expenditures before July 1, 1987                                100%
Expenditures between July 1,1987 & June 30,1988                  80%
Expenditures thereafter                                          60%
3    Technical assistance, audits, studies and
training                                            1.65          100%
4    Refunding of PPF Advance                            0.55          Amount
Due
5    Unallocated                                         0.50
Total           5.80
70.       Disbursements for routinie road maintenance, regravelling, reseal-
ing and low-cost paving works will be made against statements of expendi-
tures (SOE's) using unit rates for each work item in accordance with the
agreed program. Unit rates for force account activities have been estab-
lished under the First Highway Maintenance Project for direct operating
costs (field salaries and wages, equipment operation and maintenance, and
materials) equipment amortization and overheads. The unit rates will be
updated  and  agreed with  IDA  on  a  quarterly  basis.   For  contracted
activities, the applicable contract rates will apply. Other disbursements
will be made against standard documentation.  The uAit rates for the road
maintenance program to be used from the start of the project for
disbursement purposes were agreed at negotiations.
71.       A revolving fund will be established for IDA funds in a Special
Account opened in foreign currency in the Central Bank of The Gambia. An
advance of US$400,000 from IDA funds into the Special Account will be made
after the Declaration of Effectiveness, to cover about four months of
project expenditures. Disbursements may be made from the Special Account
for all project expenditures eligible for IDA financing.  The Special
Account will be replenished following applications for reimbursement by
MWC, together with appropriate supporting documentation or SOE's, as well
as bank statements. Reimbursement applications will be submitted to IDA



- 23 -
whenever accumulated withdrawals amount to US$100,000. The amount of IDA
replenishment will not exceed the authorized allocation.
72.       Counterpart  funds will be made available  by  the Government
through its budgetary allocations. A revolving fund for local supplies and
petty contracts will be established for counterpart funds in a Project
Account to be administered by the Accountant General. An initial deposit
of Dalasis 40,000 will be made by the Government before IDA advances the
initial deposit in the Special Account. MWC will prepare, one month prior
to each quarter, a work program and related -stimates of expenditures for
project execution during the forthcoming quarter. The required counterpart
funds will be deposited by the Government into the Project Account before
the end of the first month of each quarter.  IDA replenishments of the
Special Account will be conditional on the Government having deposited the
required counterpart funds into the Project Account. Only eligible project
expenditures will be made from the Project and Special Accounts. MWC, with
assistance of the road mai4tenance consultants, will manage all accounting
records and MWC will prepare supporting documentation and SOE's.
Reporting and Auditing
73.       Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by MWC with the
assistance of consultants and sent to the Association within one month
after the end of each quarter.  These reports will include:  ti) progress
achieved against the agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and
key performance indicators; (ii) work programs and cost estimates for the
coming quarter (para 72); and (iii) statements for the revolving funds.
External auditors acceptable to the Association will be engaged under the
project to carry out annual audits of the project as well as the Project
and Special Accounts in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Auditing.
Each Audit Report, together with a management letter, will be sent to the
Association not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
The reporting and auditing requirements were agreed at negotiations.
Nature of Project Benefits
74.       The present deterioration of the highway system under the juris-
diction of MWC does not yet impose serious restrictions on transportation.
The maintenance program, however, is urgently needed to protect the highway
investment, and to prevent further deterioration in road conditions which
would cause physical bottlenecks in transport in the near future and would
also necessitate larger future investments for road rehabilitation. Since
the costs of potential transport bottlenecks are difficult to estimate, the
project benefits quantified are mainly in the form of savings in road
maintenance and road user costs generated by the project. Other benefits,
such as time savings or positive effects on agricultural supplies and
production because of reduced transport costs have not been quantified.
75.       Traffic volumes for the various roads are mainly based on traffic
counts made in 1982; average daily traffic (ADT) in 1984 is assumed the
same as 1982 ADT, as economic activity remained stagnant during this



- 24 -
period.  An annual growth-rate of 5Z has been assumed for future years
which is in line with the recovery scenario recently outlined in the Bank's
report on the Development  Issues and Prospects  for The Gambia.   The
economic return calculations for the maintenance program were tested for a
zero traffic-growth assumption.   Traffic on the project roads is not
expected to be influenced *by the Senegambia Confederation during the
project period.
Economic Returns and Sensitivia
76.       The economic benefits of the project have been calculated for all
main components: maintenance of gravel roads, maintenance of paved roads,
rehabilitation of 150 km of paved road sections and the Brumen bridge. The
internal economic rate of return (ERR) on the gravel road maintenance
component is estimated at 28%. The maintenance component for paved roads
has a much higher economic justification owing to the greater state of
deterioration of the roads and higher traffic volumes. The estimated ERR
on this component is 70%.  The estimated ERR on the entire maintenance
program for the paved and gravel road network covered under the project is
about 392. The rates of return were tested for a shortfall in benefits by
20%, an increase in cost by 20% and a zero percent traffic growth. The
resulting estimated ERRs are 25%, 272 and 28%, respectively.
77.       Pavement strengthening of sections of the South Bank Road, the
principal overland link with the interior of the country, is of high
priority. The road sections are in fair to poor condition and without any
strengthening will continue to deteriorate rapidly.   The sections to be
improved carry traffiq volumes of 1,800 vehicles per day (vpd) for
Yundum-Brikama (10 km) and 540 vpd for Bajana-Kalagi (100 km) and 4.80 vpd
for Kalagi to near Soma (40 km). Thg combined ERR for these road sections
is 342.  The Bund road carries some 1,900 vpd.  It bypasses Banjul's city
center for most traffic to and from the port and ferry, and has been
designated as the official truck route to the port.  The road is in poor
condition and stretches are subject to periodic flooding. The estimated
ERR for the improvements of Bund Road is about 322. If the Brumen Bridge
is not improved soon, its rapid deterioration will lead to severe load
restrictions and probably to a disruption of road service. The ERR on this
investment is estimated at 49%.
78.       The  composite  ERR  from  total project investments, excluding
technical assistance for institutional strengthening which could not be
allocated to particular road programs, and excluding PPF advance which is
treated as a sunk cost, is estimated at 38%. These quantified components
cover 79% of total project costs.
Project Risks
79.       Based on the satisfactory implementation of the First Highway
Maintenance Project and the commitment of the Government to reorganize MWC
and improve its management procedures, there would be no major risks
concerning project Implementation. However, further aggravation of The



- 25 -
Gambia's economic situation could limit funds for road maintenance. The
Association will annually review   the road investment and maintenance
programs and agree on budget levels for the annual road maintenance pro-
gram.  A second risk concerns the extent of the Government's long-term
commitment to institution building. A weakening of Government's decision to
streamline existing procedures in MWC and to delegate responsibilities to
line managers would not unduly affect implementation of the project but
would extend the period needed for expatriate technical assistance. Through
careful monitoring and follow-up, the Association will try to reduce this
risk. Moreover, an important element of institutional strengthening is the
strong technical assistance support to implement the project over the first
two years (para 59), and to train engineers, planners, managers and techni-
cians in their tasks. This will, in itself, enhance the overall management
efficiency of MWC, and will facilitate the establishment of sustainable
operational procedures.
PART V -'RECOMMENDATION
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 5, 1986



AME  I
-26-                                        bil
Page 1 of 6
OmIam. DB              - SOCIAL  unxCun    rit 3T
C1D4, TM!                                         P             1118) Is
SOIT                      OMST UCsUcT ESTIAt) Lb
Raw.ouc        LO  uiOUMt ivAn   SK iw incu
itmet      ioioLb annmST aT          SOuTHr SAR"           Auc& 4. uP !AMA6
TOTAL                                11.        11.3        11.3
AIWLDLTAL                            3.          3.9         4.3
co               )                     ..          ..        290.0              233.                     1043.6
-   aanzs PM Cm
(warn    or OIL qUtVIAT)           13.0         33.0        76.g               02.3                     533.5
as. a_lv nuuAZS
vnuaTn.KCCSAL (CTSOUINS)    374.0              465s.       497.0
4MUtS S0flIAflO  (2 0F TTAL)       12.4        19.6        30.0               20.1                     32.0
POPA         flOU 2W CIEU  1O
POPUIAflS Ito WmS 2000 (HILL)
%TATflSAT MU.TION (HIu.)                                   3.2
PPULATI   10S'I                                            1.9
SgO. M.                           33.1        41.2        61.7               33.2                     65.1
SlR s. 34. 13. Lw                105.9       119.2       156.4              112.3                    124.6
popMlATlo AR STUICTaR CE)
0-14 U.S                         42.7        43.9        ALA                44.0                      45.4
15.4  1                           54.2        53.1        55.3              50.8                      51.5
G*  o  30m                         2.9         2.9         2.2                2.9                       2.7
POPUTAfOU GMTN PATS CE)
OTtEL                           A t.2          2.2         3.I                2.3                      2.9
0gu                                2.6         7.1         b.5                6.4                      5.1
CED  Pg21  RaE (WI 130012           44.3        46.2        49.0               47.2                     47.0
m  Dun  am  (PU Tm005)              29.2        24.1        22.7               17.6                     15.0
CROSS UDUMECTION Ra                  3.0         3.1         3.2                3.3                       3.2
*VILT PUNING
ACCWTOS. AN          (THOM)         .          1.0
US    (EC OF    1       )          ..          ..           .0                3.3                      6.4
t305 or TOO PlO. URE CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      101.0        96.0        62.0              03.3                      62.9
PM CAPITA SMPiLY OP
cnoSnn (2 op UWaunrt s)          109.0        96.0        s6.0               *7.7                     96.5
PROtEUS (GRAM PE  Off)            63.0        56.0        51.0              51.9                      55.4
o0  wf1cs SfUL MO PULsE           11.0       13.0        13.0 /c            16.7                      10.5
CRUZ (AS  1-&) OU1  aT              53.9        52.3        45.5               23.1                     16.b
LIv  SPEC?. AT USET  (itS)          31.1        32.3        36.0               47.6                     52.0
nWLT ma. sa  (CP  230)            122.0       216.5       200.0              319.5                    108.l
ACC55 To SAn WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                              ..         12.0         ..                27.1                      62.4
DRSUI                                         97.0        65.5 1d            63.5                     67.5
RURL                                           3.0         ..  -             19.3                     35.8
ACCSS TO E          DISOtSAL
(Z OP POPUIATIOU)
TOtAL                              ..          ..          ..                26.5                     28.9
RtIt                               ..          ..          ..                65.4                     57.7
L                                  ..          ..          ..                20.6                     20.7
POPLATIOS PE PNtCIA              24930.0    23950.0    12310.0 /a          27901.7                   11791.7
PO. PER NUSING1 1E10              1590.0 It  1890.0       1770.0 W          3308.4                    2459.6
POP. PR HOSPITAL MM
TOTAL                            920.0                   860.0 Ia          1273.6                    931.1
UIIU                             190.0 l       ..        170.0 7g          428.2                     346.8
Ram1                            9210.0 ft      ..       3490.0 i           3292.5                   4371.9
ADlItSSIONS PA N UDA                 ..          ..          ..                 ..                      27.2
AVER#SE SIZE Of   UrSENLD
TOTAL                              ..          Li/          . 
tltUI                              ..61 7i:                ...               ...
XWQ                     ..         ~~~~.l r   .....
AVEStR N0. OF ftltSONS/10G
rotaL                              -           ..          .                   ..
UUwn                               ..          ..          .                  ..
RURML                              ..          ..
otAL                               ..          ..
ma4J                               ..          ..          .                  ..
UUL   OF                                       ..a.. ..                    ..
TOA



- 27 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CAMIKA. TNE         _   USOCtAL INDICATOS DATA    T
CASA. WE                             EEE  EC ROuPS (iatGwTC  AWNASS) *K
ME (r cgt uCut CSTMATE) A
Pa  U r#U LOS INCOME AFRA              A       S.
AiOJUTCDO CEROLII4ENT RATIOS
plmlARfm  TOTAL                   12.0        24.0       56.0               67.8                     9.7
NALE                   17.0        34.0        71.0              77.6                     100.0
FliULC                  8.0        15.0        41.0              34.9                     83.2
SECONDOATm TOTAL                   3.0        6.0        1i.0               13.3                     17.3
mALE                    4.0        12.0        22.0              17.9                      25.0
FIHALE                  2.0         4.0        10.0               9.1                     14.6
VOCATtOiL EX OF SCONUA)              1.4         3.6        6.1               13.2                      5.V
FUflL-TEACIER RATIO
PRDIA                             31.0        27.0       23.0               4.9                      41.1
531NID1W                          19.0        20.0,      16.0               27.4                     25.5
PASSNGER C&RSITN MOSSD POP           2.1        f.2         3.3 fd             3.6                     20.3
maiDO  1UZcVnlRS/THfUSAND POP        S.3       107.5      111.4               55.9                    107.3
TV OscVmRSAuoDS A Oe                 ..          ..         ... 2.6                                    20.
uWSArAR C"DILT GENERAL
IzTulrTr) CIaIAtIDOt
PER TuOusD rOrWiTItw                4.f    .. ..                       s       .0                     16.4
CINEA ANN"L ATENAMCAPITA             ..         ..0.3                                                   0.4
TOTAL LOOt FOCEZ (THO)             193.0       227.0       331.0
PXHAIX (PERCENr)                  46.8        46.2       43.1               34.2                     36.2
ACRICOLTURS (IcER:S)              65.0       12.0        70.0 It            77.5                     54.5
INDUSTU (PCErT)                    7.0         1.0       9,.7T               9.7                     18.3
PAXTIC[PATION RATE (MacrNT)
TOTAL                             51.7        48.7       47.5               39.3                     36.6
MALE                              36.2        53.5       53.6 id            30.9                     47.1
FKIALE                            47.4        44.2       41.6 7             2B.1                     27.2
EGNONUC DCPUIDCNC  RATIO             0.9         1.0        0.9                1.3                      1.3
Iow.  mitamm
MacU.? or PRIVATE ZICUS
31l5X 3W0  N          S            .. OF                   ......
tUSKS? 2020 OF OUSEHOLDS           .
LONIST 202 OF UOUSEIOLD            ..S
LokS? 402 or soUSIOLS              ..
Prs=e 7A9DL GROW
ESTmgATED ABSOLUTE POVERTlf INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
UaA                                ..          ..         ..               165.5                    5S07
RAL                                ..         ..         95.0 I             95.0                    275.3
ESTDUSAE  RIATVE  CRTr  raCOM
LCEVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URUU                               ..          ..       185.0 IC           113.1                    545.6
RURAL                              ..         ..         90.0 T             67.6                    201.1
ESrIATED POP. bELCJ ABSOLUTE
POVE3 IN111C1 LEVEL. CZ)
RJAN                               ..         ..          ..                36.6
RURAL                              ..         ..         40.0 I             61..
NOT AVAILA-LE
NOT AFPLIAEB
N OT E S
/a   TM grap averages for each SndScator are popula-rLonoltted *riel_ttc m_s.  Cwrqe of centriSe
smog the indctators depend  - aoIlabiltty of data and LS not  atteorm.
lb   Unlas othewSe sotod. "Dets for 1960" refer to an year btomen 1959 and 1961; "'Dce for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Met beset Eetate' btmee   1961 ad 1983.
/c   1977;  d 1980; 1. 1978; A  1962; A  1976; & 1973; /S 1984.
OhEs. 1983



ANIEX I
- 28 -                                                 PageS 3of 6
DUNImMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Ne Although h da am drwn frm mourn  pslyjudmd the most auonauve and reliable. it should alo be oted that theyn -Yn be initinally
comparbk became  the abck or staadarlsd dsni na sad conep ud by dlEremt contn  in coflcun the d. The data are. n elea useful to
dt,cuibe orders of magnitude. Indicae trnds and chareeuie cenain major duffenom betwen counsin.
he rerce owups are (1) die naie country group or the subject country and 12) a country oup with smwhat higher aversge mncame than the contry
group of tho subjct coury (sxM for -HIg Income Oil Eaportea goup whew Middk Income Nnh Aftom and Middle East" is chosen beome o  ronuer
soco.culral atile). In the uro_  grp data he davea  afe popbuann wedghted anthmei m_eas for each indicator and shown only when majority
Ofthe counbe in a goup sa daa for that dato Since ihe coverge ofeounrie among the indkuior depernd on the avabiliy od a und ios uniform.
ceution mus be exarisd In reing aeag, ofdone indicaor to aother. Thm averages ar only ueful in compaig the value atone indicator at a tme among
the counry d re e group
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Crde Birth Rate (per thouzsd)-Number of live birth in the year
Toni-Total surface ar  comnpnsing laud area and inland watwm   per thousand of mnid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                            CIrud Death Rate (per thousaud)-Number or deaths in the year
Apdkxbwul-Estimaet of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen grdens or to  Gross Repredan Rak-Average number or daughte  a woman
lie faUow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                           will bear in her norman   rqeroductive period if she experiences
present age-speific fertility rates; usually five-year avenges ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USSGNP per capita estimates at curmnt         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, alculated by sme conversion method as World     F       n.,x ricceptrs Anna (ehomnndfl-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    Fhan(y Plausr-eUrs (percenr efma-kid ai )- The peren-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tag of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data,                                                     of child-bearing age ar generally wvmen aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usa  is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATLISTCS                                groups.
Tonal Pepulul8. Mid- Yarew (theusmfz -As of July 1;1960. 1970,  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Uris ftp_lrwx.a (percent of total)-Ratio of urban to total     lutes ofFad Aodrectie. Per Capita (1969-71 - 10) -Index of per
iopulaton;different definitions of urban areas may afect compar-  captta annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; differcnt definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 2970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodities (e.g. sugarne instea'P of sugar)
-            Pwjecria                                          which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popuation in wear 200-The projection of population for 2000    excluded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
wer projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Capita Supply ofCal e    rceu efequeresseas)-Comput-
Stationarv population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in countrv
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - I. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth ratc is zero. The stationary population  estimated bv FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basts of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household lvel: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monentun-ls the tendency for population growth to   Per Cpita Supply of Psroein (gras per duy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of .ood per dav. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  dav and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
meat level from year z onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pepoath  Density                                               average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqklm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capit Prein Supply fos Animal ad Peti-Protein supply
Per sq.kn agricultural ho'd-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
PopuIbaion Age Suructue (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  ChAl (e 1-4) Death Rate (per rhomsd)-N umber of deaths of
ing agel (5-64 years). and retired (65 years and oer) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the sa-e age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PopAato Growt Rate (perceet-toJeta-Annual growth rates of      from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
I bpulation Growth Rat (perceut)-ehru--Annual growth rates     Life Expectany at Birth (yearxl-Numbr of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-29-                                                ANNX I
Page 4-of 6
at the time of or its bbrth wac to sy the m_e throughout its life;  P -wache Retdo - prwy. ad secondary-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 1963 dat                                        roiled in priimy  and secondary klve  divided by number of
h4ow o Mth  Rae (p1r t- _Number of infants who die    teac   in the consponding levels.
befo. reching one year of ae per thoand live binr  in a given
yew; 1960 1970 and 1963 da.                                   CONSUMPI1ON
Aceeof SO  WIa   (_pv    of _fa-rs               wIP,  d         uAqe_r Cus  er tusand PePulAu)  tungr cas com-
rud-Number of peope (totaL urban and ral) wih reaable         prm motor ca  seang kt  than ight perso; exclude ambul-
-com to saf water supply (incld   tatd ufae wats br           aces heas  and militay vehicla.
untaated but unctainnted water such u that from p! cted       Rd  Reva  (per rwpapali-All types of recvrs
boebole. pspgp a  sanitary welDl) a pereta,   of thor rpaec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousan of population;
ivw popuation  In an urban are a pubic fountain or staxdpot  *xdudes un-icensed rceiversi counties and in yeas whe
ocated not mor thn 200 metes fro   houtI may he co            registato of radio sets wa in effect data for rcnt year may
wtin      .. reaoble ams of that house. In rural are"s    . not be comparable since most countin abolished licesing.
aic u e wouMimply tht the houwwifeeorembers of the
housebold do not bave to spend a diproportionate pElt of the day  TVR#cuVm (per       dp l)TV reeiven fror broadcst
in feching the fays watr needs                                to genea public per thousand popudatio; exdudes unliensd TV
AcEss to Earns Diyua (p:te         fp.sl)-iot4  Nw,           srocvers in countcs and in years wben regttion of TV ses wa
d mNu-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural)  ed by        i CffSCL
excrete disposl a pecentags of their respective populations.  Akwpre Chcdmbm (pe tminmdp   Is)-Shows the aver-
Exreta dispasal may include the colection and disposal, with or  ge drcudation of -daily geal intert newspwer.- defined as a
without treatment, of human ec     nd wa w   ter by wter-     peiodicl publication devoted prinarl to recoding general news
borne system or the use of pit privies and similar installationL  It is considered to be "daily" if it appeas at lan four times a week.
,pd.al.,per Pkaido-lbpulation divided by number of prc-       CIem  ASJ_  Arteser per CpeII per Yec-Based on the
tising physicia  qualified from a medical school it univeril  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Apukle per NnIxV EPbso-Population dividld by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
prcing male and female graduate nuse  assistunt nurse
practcl nurs and nursing auxiliris.                               OR FORCE
lpmidtlar pgr fWfasguaf -a       wink  d murd-4F1pulation     lota Lab_ &ic (rthasniii-Economically active person. in-
(totaL urban. and rual) divided by their respecti  number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding houswives.
hospital beds availsbl in public and privae, nal and specalized  sudents. etc.. covering population of all age. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation center  Hospita are esblishments  various countrnies ame not comparble: 1960. 1970 and 19U3 da.
pcrmanently stiffed by at leat one physician. Estnbisuments prov-  f-  (percew-Female labor force as percetage of total lIbor
iting principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. incdude hith and medil centers not permanently staffed  Ap ,w (percen)-Labor rome i fanning. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse midwife. etc.)  and fishing as pentag of total labor fome; 1960. 1970 and 1960
which offer in-tient aoimodation and provide a limied range   data
of medical facilities.                                        I _nsr  (perew)-Labor formc in miining. construction. manu-
Ad.  iois per Hesp*f hi-Total number of admissions to or      facturing andelectricity. water and gas as pctage of total labor
discharged from hospitals divided by the nwnber of beds.      force: 1960. 1970 and 1930 data.
HOtICG                                                        or activity rates am computed as tota. mae. and female labor forac
A7qe Mcc of HuwehaM (pem- per hrllollJ-ioaI  WhaM,            as percnges of totaL male and femakl population of all ages
abus-A houseold consists ofa group ofindividuals who shbar     respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. Thesc are based on [LO's
lving quarters and tbeir main meals. A boa-der or ldger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be induded in the household for sistcl purposes.      long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcs
A.age Nmber of Pe-sa  per Raw-total, uran  a  ural-           Eco, noc DependnKy RAi-Ratio of population under IS. and
Av,erge number of persons per room in al urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings. respectvely. Dwellings cxdude
non-perman     tructures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Prce_t  of DweBus -wA Eklericrp-ra.          , and rural-     Perc       of Torta Dspo=b  Ins (both in cash ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with clectricity in living quarters as percen-  Aacruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwalings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4ssed E.wo_r Ratosn                                          The folowing esumtes are very approximate measurcs or povety
Prnawy. school - toad. mawe nd feml-Gross total, male and     kves. and should be interprecd with considerable caution.
female cnrolment of all ages at the pnmary kvel as prcentages of  EstisAedAbsofite Por*by incns Level (Sf pr capgita -when
respective primary school-ag  populations While many countres  ad ral-Absolute poverty income level is that income klvd
consider prmary school age to be 6-11 yean. othen do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differeaces in country praces in the ages and duation of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  Estm ed Relie Pfevy Incoe Lewel (1USS per capdtai-reban
education, gos enrolment may exceed 100 percent sac some      wid rural-Rural retive poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prinary-school  averge per capita personal income of the country..Urban klvd is
age                                                           derived from the rural lvel with adjustment for higher cost of
SeconAvy schoo - otal, mnle and femak--Computed as above;    living in urban as
secondary educaion reqcures at kast four years of approved pri-  Estirae d S     oe.ws   Ahsdre Pbrry Incenr Levd (jer-
mary instruction  provides gneral. vocational. or teacher trining  ce)ti-ma  an md rural- PLcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils  ually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
cnce coures ar generally exduded.
Yocauonai EreoDm  (pecnt of secondary)-Vocational insti-                Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. ndustriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Departmcnt
independently or s departments of secondary instutions.                               June 1985



-30 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EONCHIC INDICATORS- THZ GANBIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981 *                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GRODUT  (%. Constant Prices)
USS min.           %          1975-79 (Av.)           1979-84            1984
GNP at Market Prices                 168            100               3.8                   1.9            -7.6
Gross Domestic Investment             31             1.6             21.8                  -7.6           -32.6
Gross Natlonal Savings                -1             -1
Current Account Balance              -32            -17
Exports of Goods, NFS                111             59             31.5                   -1.7            31.2
Imports of Goods, NFS               -138            -73                .4                    .2            -1.0
OUTPUT. ZMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 198U a'
Value 6dded               Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker
USS Min.  A                Thousand                          uss
Agriculture                        54             28            232            70             233            39
Industry                           25             13             30             9             833           141
Services and Unallocated          117             59            69             21           1.696           286
Total I Average               196            100            331           100             592           100
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                   D. Kin.                                   Percent of GDP
M~~~~a ~~1984. at                                 1979 at
Current Receipts                              128                               21                        23
Current Expenditure                           141                               23                        21
Current Balance                               -13                               -2                         2
Capital Expenditure                            70                               12                        12
Overall Balance                               -83                              -14                       -10
1980            1981            1982            1983            1981
(HIllions of Dalasis, Outstanding End-June)
MDNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
Money Supply                                76               90             104             135             1.40
Bank Credit to Government (net)             27              55               37              75              81
Bank Credit to Private Sector               91               98             105             131             143
Bank Credit to Public entities              56              69               98             142             161
(Percentass or Index amabers)
Money as % of GDP                         17.9             21.9            23.0            25.6            23.2
General Price Index (1980-1984)          100.0           108.0            116.9           127.7           147.6
Arnual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                        5.0             8.0              8.2             9.3            15.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)             -            103.7            -32.7           102.7            -8.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector               -              7.7              7.1            24.8             9.2
Bank Credit to Public entities              -             23.2             42.0            44.9            13.4
a/  Fiscal year ending June 30th.
September 6, 1985



-31-                                    ANNEX I
I                                       Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORIS (1981-84 AVERAGE)
1982      1983      1984                                      (USS Min.)      %
(USS millions)                                                          -
Exports of Goods, NFS         100.3    105.6    111.2               Groundnuts                  22.5       85.9
Imports of Goods, NFS         142.3     131.7     138.0             Fish and Fish Products       2.1        8.0
Resource Gap                  -42.0     -26.1     -26.8             All Other Goods              1.6        6.1
Dome tic Exports             MYU
Interest Payments and
Other Factor Payments (net)    -5.4      -9.1      -8.0             Reexports a/                58.0
Private Transfers (net)         3.0       2.6       2.4             Total Mercrandise exports   84.2
Balance on Current Account    -4.43     -32.5     -32.4             EXTERNAL DEBT AS OF DECEMBER 31. 1984
Direct Investment                .5       -.1         1
Official Transfers and Grants  43.8      35.3      30.4             Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed         263.3
Public M & LT Borrowing (net)  30.1      13.5      18.5             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Disburaements               34.7      20.3      25.1             Total Outstanding and Disbursed       263.3
Amortization                 4.6       6.8       6.6
Other Capital (net)           -46.9    -48.0      -28.3             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984
CbQnge tn Official Reserves   -16.8    -31.8      -18.2             Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed          22.3
(net) (+ - increase)                                            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed        22.3
Met Foreign Assets            -65.9    -92.0    -106.5
(end June)
Petroleum Imports              14.0      13.0      14.5             IBRD/MA L8NnING AS OF JUNE 30. 1985
UJSS Kin.
mwr
Oustanding and Disbursed          32
Undisbursed                       21.1
Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed    3rE1
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Annual Averaaes                                End Period
1981           1982           19S3           1984               April 1
US$ 1.00 - Dalasis              1.97           2.29            2.64           3.58                  4.02
ai  Includes staff estimates of unrecorded reexport.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA *
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985)
Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 (US$ million)
Number    Year       Borrower           Purpose                   IDA 1/ Undisbursed 1/
Six credits fully disbursed                                        22.49
897-GM    1979      Republic of     Highway Maintenance
The Gambia       Project                       5.00       0.71
1187-GM    1981      Republic of     Energy Project                 1.50       0.44
The Gambia
1266-GM    1982      Republic of     Second Banjul Port
The Gambia       Project                       6.50       2.25
1443-GM    1984      Republic of     Urban Management and
The Gambia        Development                 11.50       9.73
1476-GM    1984      Republic of     Second Agricultural
The Gambia      Development                    9.40       8.71
Total                        56.39       21.84
of which has been repaid    0.27
Total now held by IDA 2/     56.12
Total undisbursed                     21.84
1/   Beginning with Credit 1187-GM, Credits shown here have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalent at the time of credit negotiations for the "IDA" amounts and the dollar
equivalents as of September 30, 1985, for the "undisbursed" amounts
(1 SDR - US$1.05940).
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IPC Investments (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal Year             Obligor              Type of Butsiness    Loan  Equity     Total
1983            Rombo Beach Hotel Ltd.         Tourism Hotel      2.9      -        2.9
Total Gross Commitments
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales                                                         -
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                                     2.9     -        2.9
Undisbursed Balance                               0.0     _        0.0



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
THE GAMBIA
THE SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:       18 months
(b) Project prepared by:                Ministry of Works & Communications
(c) Date of appraisal mission:          February 1985
(d) Date of completed negotiations:     February 1986
(e) Planned date of effectiveness:      July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Spection Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) Enactment of new MWC structure (para 40);
(ii) Publication of charges to be paid to MED. together with adequate
allocations in FY86/87 budget to pay for MED's services (para 43);
Ciii) Cross effectiveness conditions with EEC, UNSO and UNDP financed
components (para 65).
(b) Conditions of Disbursements:
Ci) Initial deposit of D 40,000 by Government in the Project
Account before IDA advances the initial deposit in the Special Account.
(para 72).
(ii) IDA replenishments of the Special Account to be conditional on the
Government having deposited the required counterpart funds into the
Project Account (para 72).
(c) Other Conditions:
(i) By May 1 of each year, up to and including 1992, review three-year
roll-over investment programs and annual development and recurrent
budgets for the transport sector (para 37);
(ii) Implementation of MED's new charging system for the central workshop to
start by July 1, 1986 (para 43);
(iii) Provide separate budget allocations for each MWC division (para 46);
(iv) Review routine maintenance methods by June 1, 1987; any modifications in
MWC's maintenance practices and equipment holdings and use to be
incorporated into annual road maintenance programs from July 1. 1987
(para 56).



THE GAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
41                                                            NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK
Second Highway Maintenance Projech          Notional Roads:                           Airport
Rehabilitotion:                   -         Paved                               0   Towns
- X ~ --       ) Paved Roads                         Loterite              b                  Rivers
Bridge                                    Earth                               e    Notional Capital
Periodic Maintenance;                     Local Roads.                              International Boundaries
Poved Roads                               Paved
Gravel Roads                              Laterite
First Highway Maintenance Project:    A    MWC Division Offices
Periodic Maintenance:                     Limit of MWC Maintenance Divisions
Paved Roads            @                Port
Gravel Roads                       *    River Wharves                                  .  . .
/           Njo
*~~~~~~                                                                                                  (Ku -  - Ir        f-seS
Jam  nol.  Mndi~      4                    Kuang  otorrenng
"                                        L         n  0         am       S ' "   '-''  ,,trong  4Jong aOodar nn  'Jo   /uDd
o sokou                                   \                                  Ew ;V lV I S I  O _l 0ghLMud 
; >    ~~    |  Xlto t                                                          ologi >i d
:- Gunjurt   W ES5T______ oiono                             D I VISIO N                    |
13                                                                         ~~~~~~~~S  E  N   '-  G   A   L
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
un                                                                                   .
Sea,r,e,-  \                                       16
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Krn Ko4 :                             K-e- ba



IBRD 18944
5-                                                                                     1|4                            .
--onal Boundaries~~~~~~~.                                                                                 -
I Capital ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Krntb
- ~~~~~onoI Boundaries ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       IL -   '                           uar
o  ID  20   30      'a      so Pr1i4atot
G0mbiLOMETERS
D tmol Ihuneories
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISA
> d o n g/to          u r~~~~~~~~~~~~U'Krnlb
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U  I   N'n E ,A-
-j ~ ~ ~~~O%  Maa |aobr Id    N                             K           ~         Yarooowol ,       icr       [Poss.mt,    
,;                '         Bonsony<>             > ~~fOiobugu  ,                  tloi 'oiSji
SIEdam
Gombissoro
^  ,                                                     13.-                 ~~~~~~~~~~~SENEGAL    'V]
.-                                   ti~~~~~~~~~AM4BIA '6ZIJLJjr r->M AL I
.-                                                                              GUINEA
/-                          -*-*-._._._.                                    .~~~~~.  SIERRA -           )
--:  O C EAN                           )    COAST
LIBERIA
G  U I N E A - B I S S A U                                                                                            1926
JANUARY 1911






