Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12081
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MDROCCO
FOURTH HIGHAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2254-MNR)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12081
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East ana North Africa Region
This document has a resridted distibutIon ad may be sed by recipients only in the perforunce of
their official duties its contents may not oherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average                US$1 - DH 6.1
Intervening Year Average              US$1 = DH 8.7
Completion Year Average               US$1 = DH 8.0
GLOSSARY
ER          =     Economic Retum
HDM         =     Highway Design Model
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
LA          =     Loan Agreement
LPEE        =     Laboratoire Public D'Essais et d'Etudes
MOT         =     Ministry of Transport
MPW         =     Ministry of Public Works
PERL        =     Public Enterprise Reform Loan
RTI)        =     Roads and Traffic Department
SAR         =     Staff Appraisal Report
SAP         -     Special Action Program
VOC               Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Report on Morocco
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 2254-NOR)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Ilorocco - Fourth
Highway Project (Loan 2254-MOR)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. Part II is based on Borro%4er comments.
The Loan (US$85.0 million) was approved in March 1983. Initiation
of a policy study financed under the Project postponed the Loan Effectiveness
Date from January to August 1984. After two extensions, the Loan was closed on
December 31, 1990, and US$8.4 million were canceled.
Project composition was complex. It encompassed road repairs and
maintenance, construction of one segment of a major expressway, rural roads
construction, and policy studies. Project implementation was hampered by local
fund shortages, complications in works procurement, and problems with the design
and execution of the policy studies.   The PCR suggests that contracting
procedures used during project implementation raise broad issues concerning works
moonitoring and cost control, and that supervision could have been tighter. Lower
than expected (and negative) traffic growth on many road segments and cost
overruns will have severely reduced the project economic rate of return in spite
of what the PCR states.
The Bank has been providing finance to Morocco for highway transport
since 1969 and this, the Fourth in a series of projects, was aimed at
maintenance. Nevertheless, at the entd of the project, proper evaluation of road
maintenance "is difficult given a lack of detailed documentation, no explicit
financial target for annual maintenance work, uncertainty regarding the
Government's funding obligation for maintenance activities, and failure to show
the relationships between the physical content of the program and its costs"
(paras 3.02 and 5.05).   On the basis of available information, the overall
project outcome cannot be rated; we assess its sustainability as unlikely and its
institutional impact as negligible.   The planned audit will reassess these
ratings and will also look at the broader perspective of the road subsector in
the context of the current lending program.
The PCR is of adequate quality, except for the absence of
documentation on the economic analysis.
This document has a restricted distribution - *: -'v be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiat duties. its contents may not orlherw.te be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUIMARY  ..               ...................................   i
Project Objectives and Implementation Experience .........      ......  i
Results  ............................................. ii
Sustainability ....... .         ...               .      .......... iii
Findings and Lessons .    .     ...............................  iii
PARTI: PROJECTREVIEWFROM THEBANK'SPERSPECTIVE  ......                          .....  1
I.PROJECr IDENTfrY ..................................                        1
11. 3ACKGROUND: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE HIGHWAY
SUBSECTOR  ......             ...............................  1
M.PROJECTOBJECTVES AND DESCRIPnON  ..................  3
IV.PROJECTDESIGN AND ORGANIZATION ...................                         4
V. PROJECrT  PLEMENTAJ1ON  ................                                  6
Delays in Implementation and Shortage of Budgetary Funds.     .         6
Partial Cancellation of Loan                   ..9
Civil Works in GeneAl 9............. 9
Pavement Strengthening Works and Provincial Road Improvements..... 10
Bridge Reconstruction and Construction of Workshops  ..     .10
Completion of Caablnca-Rabat Expressway           .    .....11
Equipment Procurement .1......... .# .... 11
Consulting Services-Provincial Roads Study Phase  .........11
Consulting Services-Freight Market Study.......... 12
Consulting Services-Study of Measures to Strengthen Transportaton
Sector .......................                 . ...... ...... 12
Consulng Services-Study on Railways Operational Information System  . . 13
Technical Assistance for MPW Planning Unit . .. .                      13
Technical Assistance to RTID    ...................            .       13
Fellowships ................................ .                         13
VI. MJOR PROJECT RESULIS                       .......... 14
Achievement of Project Objectives .....                                14
Achievement of Physical Tagets  ............1..           .15
PIrject Costs .15
Disbursements .      .... ..................                           15
Economic Reevaluation.....    16
Environmental Impact ......... . . . ...        .. . ...  .  .18
VII. PROJECr SUSTAINABUI. . .. ..Y                                19.......19
vm. BAN'S PERFORM.ANCE .l.....................                        .       19
IX. BORROWERS PERFORMLUNCE  .........                        ..... 20
X. RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE BORRCWER.22
Xa. CONSULTANT SERVICES  ............................ . .                   22
XI.PROJECTDOCUMENTATION AND DATA .22
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTE......                               24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART M.- STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related IDA Credits and Bank Loans
Table 2: Strengthening and Improvement Works
Table 3: Bridge Reconstruction Works
Table 4: Provincial Road Improvement Works
Table 5: Equipment Procured under the Project
Table 6: Project Timetable
Table 7: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 8: Project Costs
Table 9: Project Financing
Table 10: Status c. Coveants
Table 11: Progress of Disbursements by Categories
Table 12: Missions
Table 13: Staff Inputs
Diagram I: Planned and Actual Implementation
MAP
IBRD24176: Morocco: Fourth Highway Project



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2254-MOR)
PROJEC'T COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report describes the preparation, appraisal, and implementation
of a Fourth Highway Project in Morocco, for which Loan 2254-MOR in the amount of US$85
million was signed on October 23, 1983. The loan was scheduled to become effective on
January 23, 1984, but actually became effective eight months later on August 24, 1984, due to
delayed submission of documentation regarding initiation of d policy study and teuired as a
condition of effectiveness. The loan was closed on December 31, 1990, after two extensions.
Ultimately US$76.6 million were disbursed and US$8.4 million were cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the
Infastructure Opetions Division of Country Department I, Middle East and North Africa
Region. As the Government of Morocco did not formally provide a summary statement about
the Project from the Borrower's pespective, Part II coasists instead of comments by the Road
and Traffic Department, Ministry of Public Works, and Staff and Professional Training on the
draft PCR (similar in structure and content to the current version). The Bank's contnbution to
the report was prepared on the basis of, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Moroccan authorities,
intemal Bank records, and information gathered through consultation with Bank staff and
officials of the Government of Morocco.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and hnplementation Experience
(i)        The Fourth Highway Project continued the focus on the priority areas established
in the first three highway projects in Morocco, with major emphasis on repair and maintenance
of the existing road equipment. The Project emphasized road strengthening and pavement repair
(about one-third of Project costs) and included a limited amount of construction on a new major
expressway (about one quarter of Project costs). However, a new pilot component (about 22%
of Project costs) in support of rural roads was added and included financing for a study of the
pacts on agriculture of improved rural roads. The Project also sought to generate a process
to reform Morocco's restrctions on road transport and, to this end, financing was provided for
a study of the regulatory scheme for road transport.
(ii)        Loan proceeds for a program of road maintenance financed workshops, road
maintenance equipment and technical assistance. Although maintenance was a major area of
emphasis in this project, proper evaluation of the success of this componer is difficult given a
lack of detailed documerntation, no explicit financial target for annual maintenance work,
uncertainty regarding the Government's funding obligation for maintenance activities and failure
to show the relationships between the physical content of the program and its costs (para. 5.05).
(iii)      Implementation of the Project was severely hampered by insufficient government
contributions which were limited as a result of annual fiscal constraints. Budgetary shortages
affected both capital and cunrent expenditures and earned the Project a rating of 2 or 3 for
financial problems in every supervision report  Such shortages affected execution of
procurement under the Project, e.g. delaying the award of contracts and slowing payments to
contrators once they had been engaged (para. 5.05). The slowdown of public expenditures also
affected the rate of disbursements under the loan. As a result, the Bank agreed to place the loan
under the Bank's Special Action Program for Morocco by temporarily raising the reimbursable
perontage of civil works expenditures (para 5.03). This resulted in a moderate acceleration
of disbursements. Even though local funds were in short supply, foreign exchange was more
than adequate, especially after the value of the US dollar rose in relation to the dirham. The
Porrower accordingly cancelled US$8.4 million of the loan in 1986 (para. 5.08).
(iv)        Loan utilizntion for works was also hampered by a multiplicity of relatively small
contracts involving a large number of small payments. The orginal intention was that the
Government should pay the contractors and then be reimbursed. Instead, a Special Account was
set up to handle the many small payments, which the Bank replemshed periodically. The use
of many small, scattered contra  also raises broader issues concerning monitorng of works and
cost control (pam. 5.04).
(v)         The exact shortfall in maintenance expenditure and physical activities targets is
unknown not only due to conflicting reports on what these expenditures amounted to and what
physical activities actually occurred, but also to uncertainties concerning the precise level of
expenditures which had been agreed for the Project (para. 5.05). However, the available
evidence points to significantly smaller expenditures than initially contemplated (para. 5.06).



(vi)        The lack of adequate counterpart funds had a different impact on each Project
component. Available data m the Bank's and Borrower's files do not permit speculation on
whether the differences in impact were due to a deliberate policy of assigning investment
priorities, or were purely circumstantial. There is also no evidence regarding the impact on
project costs that postponement or interruption of works might have had. A more rational
response by the Government and the Bank to addressing the consequencez of recurrent budgetary
constraints on the project scope and its timely execution would have helped improve project
results.
(vii)       The Project included major studies on road transport policy; one was part of the
original Project and another was added in 1986 as a follow-up to the PERL (para. 5.22). The
first exoerienced considerable problems in execution and its results were satisfactory to neither
the Bank nor the Borrower; the second ultimately was found unacceptable to the Government
(paras. 5.185.22). Tnese studies originated in an atempt to mediate sharp differences between
the purdes in their views on road transport policy. The Bank advocated greater liberalization
while the Government was reluctant to change the existing system, which limited entry and
othterwise regulated the conditions under which road transport enterprises operated. The Bank
has contiued to press for road transport liberalization in subsequent transport projects for
Morocco and progress continues to be slow. This exoerience shows that relying on studies to
resolve road transport policy differences is inefficient.
(viii)      The Project also included a study of provincial roads which was to provide, inter
alla, an empirical basis to judge the impact of improved rural roads on agriculture. The study
was conducted over a long period and resulted in a large number of reports (parm. 5.17), but
no analysis appears to have been made of the link between road improvement and agricultural
development (para. 6.04).
Results
(ix)        The construction components of the Project (except for a 15% shortfall in the km
of roads strengthened) were substantially completed as planned, though behind schedule, and
maintenance equipment corresponding in value, though not in specification, was procured under
the loan, but again, much behind schedule (paras. 6.01 and 6.03). The studies components
only partly achieved their objectives (paras. 6.02 and 6.04). The Government's maintenance
program was not implemented as intended even though the Project's financial contribution
thereto was significant. As a result, the condition of tertiary roads appears to have deteriorated
(para. 6.03).
(x)         Economic performance of most civil works, according to the Government's
reevaluation, is satisfactory with rates of return in excess 35% in nearly all cases. However,
no rates of return were calculated for the provincial roads as these had been completed too
recently to have had a significant impact on agriculture (paras. 6.11-6.20).



- iii -
Sustainability
(xi)        The continuation of benefits from the road works carried out under tne Project
will depend on adequate road maintenance. Maintenance was the focus of a sustained
improvement effort by the MOP under the Project and there is an expectation that Project works
will, in fact, be adequately maintained. More generally, the Project is one in a line of Bank
operations whichi have addressed the problems of Morocco's road sector on a long-term basis.
Most components of the Project thus have antecedents in prior Bank operations and will be
continuing in the Highway Sector Project and the proposed Roads Improvement Project. This
includes support for road rehabilitation, rural roads improvements, procurement of maintenance
equipment, assistance to improve the operations of the highway authority and reforn of transport
policy. This linkage of activities over time ensures that the initiative: of the Project will be
carried forward and their beneficial effects will be sustained.
Flndings and Lessons
(xii)      The lack of local counterpart funds due to major distortions in the Borrower's
economy (likely to continue for a long period) and the fact that such funds are subject to
international lending agencies' stringent conditionalities, need to be addressed explicitly in the
design and implementation of investment projects. Adjustments in the project giving recognition
to budgetary constraints to ensure that the project is in line with the Government's
macroeconomic policies and is executed smoothly, should be anticipated. More generally, the
preparation of annual budgets steeds to reflect the relative priorities of investment and
maintenance, especially when capital expenditures must be cut. The Moroccan authorities did
not define these priorities clearly in the early years of the Project and, while progress has been
made in more recent years, the issue has not yet been satisfactorily resolvt. Discussions of the
annual budgets between the Bank and the Government may help improve this process.
(xiii)     The creation in 1989 of a special fund earmarked for routine road maintenance
has had a beneficial effect so far on maintenance funding. Its success has now led to a proposal
to extend the fund's revenue base in order to provide the same safeguard against fluctuations in
the budget for periodic maintenance as well.
(xiv)       The construction period forecasted in the Project was unduly short not only in
view of Morocco's budgetary problems, but also with respect to the Bank's prior experience
with lending to Morocco. It should have been explicitly based on the Bank's experience.
(xv)        Once the budgetary problems and the undue complexities of the Project had
become apparent, the Project should have been subject to a mid-term review to articulate the
difficulties, redefine Project objectives and restructure the Project appropriately. Such a review
should have concentrated on the sectoral policy and the budgetary problems which emerged from
Project implementation.
(xvi)       Although there wvas no formal mid-term review, the Bank and the Borrower
agreed in due course to the use of a special account in the Treasury to facilitate loan
disbursements which had been hampered by documentation for a large number of small
expenditures. According to the Bank's accounting department, the special account has worked
well.



KENGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2254-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECT
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:             Fourth Highway Project
Loan Number:      2254MOR
Loan Amount:      US$85 million
RVP Unit:         MENA
Country:          Kingdom of Morocco
Sector:           Transportation
Subsector:        Highway
I. BACKGROUND: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
2.01        The current situation concerning Morocco's transport sector is summarized in the
Transport Sector Strategy Paper (Report No. 9712-MOR, September 10, 1991). Road, rail,
coastal shipping, and air constitute the primary modes of transport in the country. In 1988, road
accounted for nearly 90% of passenger-km and over 40% of ton-km. Two-thirds of export
tonnage and nearly oae-half of aU international trffic is represented by one commodity,
phosphates and its derivatives. This traffic also provicies over 70% of all ton-km on the railway.
The share of road transport in all non-phosphate traffic is nearly 70%. Road was also the
dominant transport mode when the Fourth Highway Project was approved in 1983.
2.02        At the time of the approval of the Fourth Highway Project, Morocco was reported
to have a "well developed transportation system " but there remained, "considerable potentialfor
reducing transport costs and improving service levels in particular locaions or for partcular
segments of the transportation market".  Moreover, as much of the basic transportation
infrastructure had been completed twenty or thirty years ago, there was "need of renewal or
upgrading to meet the evolving needs of the 1980's". More recently, with the steady increase
in traffic throughout the 1980's at 4 to 5% per year, capacity problems are emerging,
particularly in certain busy corridors.
2.03        After a short-lived boom in the 1970's based on phosphate exports, austerity has
been a continuing theme in the management of Morocco's government finances. Nevertheless,



- 2 -
transport sector public investments have increased in real terms in the 1980's and represented
about 22% of total investments. At the same time, the share of road investments has gradually
gone up and that of railways declined. When the Fourth Highway Project was appraised, road
investments were about 33% of total public investments for transport. In the current plan period
(1988-1992) they are planned to reach nearly 47%.
2.04       Morocco's road system currently consists of about 28,000 km of paved and 30,000
kn of unpaved roads. At appraisal of the Fourth Highway Project the total was nearly the same
but the length of paved roads was Lbout 2,000 km less. The approximately 20,000 km of
primary and secondary roads are mostly paved, while over two-thirds of the tertiary network is
unpaved.
2.05       At appraisal, Morocco's highway investments were planned at about US$100
million equivalent a year. Actual expenditures were less in the appraisal year, but the average
over the period 1981 to 1987 was approximately at the planned level. About two-thirds of road
investments were allocated to primary and secondary roads.
2.06       Road maintenance expenditures we.e estimated in 1990 (Staff Appraisal Report,
Highway Sector Project, Report No. 7983-MOR) to have averaged about US$50 million
equivalent annually for the period 1981-1987, though varying widely from this mean in individual
years. A large part of maintenance expenditures (especially periodic maintenance) was financed
from the capital budget. The bulk of maintenance outlays was for primary and secondary roads.
2.07       The Bank (including IDA) has been providing finance for transport in Morocco
since 1969. Except for a loan of US$22 million equivalent in 1985 for the port of Casablanca,
and loans of $12 million and $63 million in PY91 for a Port Sector Project, the rest of this
lending has been for roads. Prior to the Fourth Highway Project the equivalent of US$105
million was lent in three roads projects (Table 1: Related IDA Credits and Bank Loans); in
addition, US$67 million equivalent was made available under the roads components in 11
agricultural sector projects. A Highway Sector Project (Loan 3168-MOR of US$79 million
equivalent) was authorized in 1990 and is currently being implemented (Table 1). A Second
Highway Sector Project for about US$80 million equivalent is currently in the pipeline.
2.08       The three operations for roads in Morocco before the Fourth Highway embodied
common emphases: major construction and improvement (or studies for such work) on a few
longer road sections; pavement strengthening and reconstruction on a large number of short
sections of the paved network; road maintenance equipment; and studies or technical assistance
for transport planning and coordination. In addition, one or another of the projects provided
support for bridge construction, highway administration or control of overvwight vehicles.
While major road construction was executed by international competitive bidding (ICB) with
normal engineering designs and controls, pavement strengthening and reconstruction was
executed, for the most part, by smaller local contractors. Most of these works were awarded
under rules which exempted the Borrower from the Bank's full ICB requirements and limited
the need for prior review of procurement contracts by the Bank. The ICB/LCB thresholds went
up gradually as Bank lending for roads evolved in Morocco.



- 3 -
2.09        Beginning with the Transport Survey of the Atlantic Coastal Region under the First
Highway Project, transport planning and coordinadon activities under the Bank's projects
addressed concerns over pricing and undue restrictions on entry in the transport sector. Such
concerns had been raised as early as 1964 when the Bank in its (published) economic survey on
Morocco criticized these restrictions as a major problem for the country's transport system
because they were both wasteful and ineffective. However, these rules had powerful political
support and remained a major problem twenty years later when the Bank was considering the
Fourth Highway Project.
2.10        In the late 1970's Morocco implemented a program to decentralize governmental
functions to provincial and communal level organizations; transferring responsibility for roads
used primarily by short distance traffic was a part of this program. Special funds were set aside
to improve such roads and local level commissions selected which roads would be improved.
However, the central public works authorities continued to play an important role in the
management of local roads. These developments offered an opportunity for Bank as-sistance to
be channelled to rural roads through a conventional roads project.
IH. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPION
3.01       The Fourth Highway Project continued the focus on thc pnonty areas established
in the first three highway projects in Morocco, with major emphasis on repair and maintenance
of the existing road equipment. The Project emphasized road strengthening and pavement repair
(about one-third of Project costs) and included a limited amount of construction on a new major
expressway (about one quarter of Project costs). However, a new pilot component (about 22%
of Project costs) in support of rural roads was added and included financing for a study of the
impacts on agnculture of improved rural roads. The Project also sought to generat a process
to reform Morocco's restrictions on road transport and, to this end, financing was provided for
a study of the regulatory scheme for road transport.
3.02        Loan proceeds for a program of road maintenance financed worlkshops, road
maintenance equipment and technical assistance. Although maintenance was a major area of
emphasis in this project, proper evaluation of the success of this component is difficult given a
lack of detailed documentation, no explicit financial target for annual maintenance work,
uncertainty regarding the Government's funding obligation for maintenance activities and failure
to show the relationships between the physical content of the program and its costs (para. 5.05).
3.03        As approved by the Bank's Board, the Project included:
(a)   strengthening and improving of about 470 km of primary and secondary
roads (Table 2: Strengthening and Improvement Works);
(b)   reconstruction of 14 bridges on the primary and secondary networks
(Table 3: Bridge Reconstruction Works);



(c)   pilot program to improve about 300 km of provincial roads
(Table 4: Provincial Road Improvement Works);
(d)   construction on about 29 km of the Casablanca-Rabat Expressway;
(e)   construction of three road maintenance workshops;
(f)   acquisition of road maintenance equipm.ent (Table 5: Equipment
Procured under the Project);
(~,,  execution of Provincial Roads Study, Phase I;
(h)   execution of Freight Market Survey and review of trucking regulatory
system;
(i)   provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works' Planning
and Studies Department; and
(j)   provision of technical assistance to the Road and Traffic Department
(RTD).
Most Project components were carried out by RTD, a constituent agency of the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW), but item (h) was the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport (MOT)
and item (i) came under the MPW. The Project penod was to extend from mid-1983 to end
1987, abort the same length as foreseen for the Third Project. However, some concern had been
expressed within the Bank that the proposed disbursement period was significantly shorter than
the general Morocco and the EMENA road project disbursement profiles, but the briefer period
was accepted on the basis that plans were in hand to execute the works quickly, as had occurred
in the Third Project.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01        The Project was identified during a Bank mission to Morocco in October 1980 and
was prepared by the Roads Departnent (subsequently Roads and Traffic Department or RTD)
with assistance from French consultants financed from the Third Project. The consultants made
economic evaluations of the proposed works to strengthen and improve main roads, reconstruct
bridges and construct or improve provincial roads. Appraisal occurred two years later (October
1982) and negotiations took place in Washington in February 1983. The Project was approved
by the Board in March 1983 and the LA was signed in October of that year. Effectiveness of
the loan was conditional upon the usual requirements (legal opinion etc.) and on the issuance by
MOT of requests for proposals from consultants to carry out the Freight Market Study.
Effectiveness was scheduled for January 23, 1984. However, there were delays in submission
of necessary documentation, especially that relating to the Freight Market Study. In addition,
a loan covenant required that the Freight Market Study was to have begun by June 1984 and
when that date passed without this requirement having been met loan effectiveness was further
delayed. Effectiveness was finally attained on August 24, 1984. The planned Ptoject Timetable
and the planned cumulative disbursements under the loan are shown in Tables 6 (Project
TImetable) and 7 (Cumulative Loan Disbursements) respectively.



4.02        Project costs consisting of capital costs were originally estimated at US$131.4
million (Table 8: Project Costs). The description of the Project also included a program of
road maintenance to be carried out by Morocco over the period miuu-1983 to the end of 1987.
The loan did not include any financing directly linked to this maintenance program, but it did
increase the disbursement percentage for civil works in recognition of these maintenance
activities and provided financing for road maintenance workshops and equipment. The total cost
of the capital items and the maintenance program were as showr "from SAR, in millions
equivalent):
Capital Items           131.4
Periodic Maintenance    105.7
Routine Maintenance      49.6
Total          286.7
It is not clear whether these sums represented all the amounts which RTD was intending to
spend over the period, that is, whether the basis of the Bank's Project was, in fact, RTD's
overall program. In any event, Bank financing under the loan was based on 64% of the capital
items in the Project cost table, which represented 100% of the foreign exchange content of these
items plus a contribution toward the costs of maintenance. The planned pattern of Project
financing is shown in Table 9 (Project Financing).
4.03       The usual Bank requirements for ICB were considerably modified.  The
Government was authorized to use local competitive bidding to procure civil works where the
value of the contracts was US$2.0 million equivalent or less, and to procure equipment where
contracts were less than US$0.1 or 0.05 million, depending on the type of equipment. Prior
Bank review of civil works contracts was requred for those valued over US$2.0 million except
for bridge contracts where the threshold was US$0.5 million and for equipment contracts over
US$0.5 or 0.1 million, in accordance with the kind of equipment. These thresholds were
substantially higher than under the third project for roads in Morocco.
4.04       The location of civil works to be included under the Project was spelled out in a
side letter, giving full details for road strengthening and improvement, bridge reconstruction,
work on the Casablanca-Rabat Expressway and, in part, for the improvement of secondary and
tertiary roads. For those roads in the latter category which were not specifically approved for
financing in the side letter, the Borrower was to submit an economic evaluation showing a rate
of return of over 12% before they would be eligible to b; included in the Project.
4.05        Loan covenants covered the usual requirements related to orderly Project
execution, as well as the requirements to submit to the Bank annual audit reports six months
after the close of each fiscal year (Table 10: Status of Covenants). Borrower performance
varied among covenants; generally there was compliance, though often with delays.



- 6-
4.06       Project design and organization were amended on several occasions:
(a)  In early 1986, US$8.4 million of the loan was cancelled as foreign exchange
requirements had gone down, due to the revaluation of the US dollar in terms of
the dirham.
(b)  In 1986, as part of the Bank's general Special Action Program (SAP) which was
intended to accelerate disbursements to certain countries in financial distress, the
disbursement percentage of eligible expcnditures under the loan was increased
from 64 to 77%.
(c)  In late 1986, the Project Description was expanded to include Part B (3), studies
to develop measures for strengthening Morocco's transportation sector, develop
an operational information system for Morocco's national railway and provide
fellowships for RTD personnel, and the disbursement procedures were amended
to provide for the establishment of a Special Account in the Treasury of US$3.0
million to facilitate disbursements under the loan.
(d)  Ln mid-1988, the Special Account was increased to US$5.0 million.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Delays in Implementation and Shortage of Budgetary Funds
5.01       The Project was to have been completed on December 31, 1987 and the loan was
to have been closed one year thereafter. The actual course of implementation is summarized in
Tables 6, 7, 8, 9 (Project Financing), and 11 (Progress of Disbursements by Categories) and
in Diagram I (Planned and Actual Implementation). Throughout its implementation the
Project suffered from lack of counterpart funds, earning it a supervision rating of 2 or 3 for
financial problems in every supervision report. As a consequence, completion and closing were
delayed for two years. Completion was also delayed due to slow tendering procedures. In the
early stages of Project implementation, while there were delays in making the loan effective
(para. 4.01); due to problems with the Freight Market Study (see para. 5.02 below) in the end,
their impact on implementation progress was insignificant compared with that of the
Government's budgetary difficulties.



- 7 -
5.02       The Government's main problem was that, under its arrangements with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), it had to limit public expenditures. Data on capital
expenditures as a whole and for public works and by RTD for the years 1981 through 1986 were
as follows:
Dirhams billions         1981   1982   1983  1984  1985   1986
Total capital expenditures       9.6   12.5    8.0    7.0   9.3    13.3
Public works capital expenditures  1.9    2.8    2.5    1.5   1.6     2.5
Public works as % of total      20.0   22.4   31.2   21.4  17.2    18.8
Capital expenditures as RTD      0.37   0.76   0.66   0.23  0.21    0.55
Capital expenditures by RTD as %
of public work.s                19.5   27.1   26.4   15.3  13.1    22.0
It appears that both total and public works capital expenditures went down in the early years of
Project implementation and only began to recover in 1986 to levels they had reached at the time
of appraisal. The Government resorted to various means to limit public expenditures, which had
the main consequence of slowing down the rate of expenditure under the Project. Not only did
it dela) the making of contracts but it also postponed payments to contractors.
5.03       The slow down of public expenditures also affected disbursements under the loan.
As a result the Bank agreed to male the loan subject to the Bank's SAP for Morocco and the
original disbursement percentage of 64% of expenditures was raised in February 1986 to 77%
(para. 4.06(b)). It remained at that level by successive extensions of the SAP for much of the
remainder of the disbursement period though it was finally lowered to 60% in 1989. Application
of the SAP resulted in a modest acceleration of disbursements (under US$5 million) from limits
that would otherwise have prevailed.
5.04       The Government also had difficulties in utilizing the loan due to a multiplicity of
relatively small contracts and payments which it financed. The original intention had been that
contractors would be paid from the Government budget and the Bank would then reimburse the
Government for a portion of the expenditures. This system became cumbersome not only
because Governmant appropriations were slow and insufficient, but because the number of
payments was large. Therefore, the Loan Agreement was amended in November 1986 to
provide for a Special Account of US$3 million (later raised to US$5 million) from which the
Government would make payments for the Project and which the Bank would periodically
replenish against documentation in support of these payments. The Special Account is reported
to have worked well in achieving its objectives. However, the use of many, scattered contracts,
usually two or three for one section of road, raises broader issues than ease of loan
disbursement. Such scattered procedures require effective monitoring for integration and control
(see para. 12.02 below). In addition, this method of execution makes it difficult to organize
the work, in such a way as to achieve efficiency and to allow comparison of costs. A subsequent



-8 -
loan for roads in Morocco (Loan 3168-MOR) provides for grouping of contracts in lots and for
awarding of these contracts at the regional level. This new procedure may alleviate some of the
difficulties described above.
5.05       As indicated above, the definition of the Project encompassed both capital and
maintenance activities and the budgetary restrictions impacted on both of them. However, the
Government's failure to provide the necessary capital budget affected disbursement of the loan,
while the insufficient provision of maintenance funds interfered only with the Government's
ability to carry out the maintenance part of the Project. The precise obligation of the
Government regarding the funding of maintenance activities is somewhat uncertain under the loan
documentation. A side letter to the LA spells out the annual physical volumes of various
categories of maintenance work to be done under the Project, but the documents do not contain
a detailed presentation to show the relationship between the physical content of the maintenance
program and its aggregate or annual cost. The documents do not, therefore, contain an explicit
financial target for annual maintenance work but an estimate in the SAR suggests a value of 173
million in 1983 dirham (about US$28.4 million). This was the figure mentioned on various
occasions when the Bank raised with the Moroccans the adequacy of their maintenance effort
under the Project.
5.06       The reports on actual expenditures for maintenance are conflicting. According to
para. 2.20 of the SAR for the Highway Sector Project (Report No. 7983-MOR of January 8,
1990) the amounts (in millions of current dirham) were as follows:
1981  1982  1983 | 1984  1985  1986  1987  Average
294   618   432   127   155  256   553    348
In constant 1983 millions of dirhams, the amounts would be:
1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  Average |
345   657   432   113   128   194   409    325
Various supervision reports indicate different amounts; for example, the April 1985 report
indicates that 1984 expenditures were 57% of the budgeted amount of DH 202 million, that is,
DH 115 million which is less than DH 127 million shown above. Regardless of which source
is used, the expenditures fell short in 1984 and 1985. The Bank spent considerable effort in
seeking to persuade the Government to keep up its expenditures for maintenance and to increase
them much beyond the level of DH 127 million. It agreed with the Government on action plans
and targets which covered not only capital items under the Project but maintenance expenditures
as well. While budgetary allocations often were adequate, actual spending tended to fall below
agreed targets. RTD considers that it had a strong commitment to maintenance as evidenced by



- 9 -
the relatively large share of the roads budget devoted to maintenance and by the establishment
in 1989 of a special fund earmnarked for maintenance.
5.07        The impact of the shortage of funds on execution of the Project was not uniform
for all ts components. Table 11 shows the course of disbursement by principal categories.
Three years after loan signature more than half of scheduled disbursements for the Casablanca-
Rabat Expressway had been completed, whereas only about one-fifth of the loan as a whole was
disbursed. The record does not show whethef giving preference to this part of the Project was
discussed with the Bank or whether the Government was following any deliberate priorities in
making its budget cuts. However, the budget crisis was publicly and widely recognized and
certain deliberate actions resulted, such as restructuring of the Project after partial cancellation
of the loan. Maldng adjustments was complicated because the length of the crisis was difficult
to foresee. RTD points out that the earlier completion of disbursements for the expressway was
mainly due to the fact that work on it had been startd before the financial crisis and that efforts
were concentrated on keeping contractors current once the crisis started. The non-payment of
contractors had significant impacts on several of the consultancy assignmerts financed under the
loan when firms either slowed down or temporarily abandoned their work. No information is
available on the cost impacts of the budgetary crisis, whether any claims were made for late
payment of dues or whether prices rose to adjust for the additional working capital needs
experienced by contractors. A more deliberate response by the parties to the budgetary crisis,
including giving preference to maintenance, and a recognition by the Bank that the crisis had
significant implications on the size and implementation of the Project would have been helpful.
Partial Cancellation of Loan
5.08        Shortly after the loan was made, the dirham/US$ exchange rate began to rise from
the 6.1 level at appraisal. It went up to nearly 10 before falling to around 8 in early 1991. As
the value of the works in dirham did not go up correspondingly, the loan (expressed in US
dollars) covered a larger proportion of the cost of the works. The disbursement percentage,
however, remained unchanged in the early years of the shift in exchange rates and as a result
some of the loan became unneeded and the Borrower cancelled US$8.4 million of the loan in
early 1986.
Civil Works in General
5.09       The detailed design for the civil works was, for the most part, available at
appraisal. However, the design of pavement strengthening works was to be reviewed using the
Highway Design Model (HDM) and the Bank made extensive comments in the early years of
Project implementation on pavement design for such works. With regard to provincial road
works, designs were available at appraisal for only about 100 km of such roads. Another
roughly 200 km of these works were to be designed and submitted for Bank review in three
annual lots of about 70 km each. These submissions were covered by Section 3.03(c) of the LA,
to the extent they exceeded certain monetary thresholds. As hardly any works were above these
thresholds, the section was eliminated by letter agreement of February 20, 1985. The record



- 10-
does not indicate what review, if any, was made of the designs of the 200 additional km of
provincial road improvements.
5.10       A number of different procurement procedures applied to the civil works financed
under the Project. In the early years of Project implementation considerable correspondence
arose over the interpretation of the requirements. The Moroccan authorities sometimes failed
to apply correctly the rules set out in the LA. At other times they asked for Bank concurrence
when that was not needed.
5.11       On-site supervision of civil works was provided by RTD, supported by the
Material Tests and Studies Laboratory, Laboratoire Public d'Essais et d'Etudes (LPEE). RTD
submitted invoices covering completed works for financing under the loan, but detailed reports
on work execution and the quality of works were not provided the Bank. Bank staff made site
visits to the Casablanca-Rabat Expressway; the record does not show what other works were
inspected by Bank staff.
Pavement Strengthening Works and Provincial Road Improvements
5.12       A list of about 464 km of pavement strengthening works was agreed at appraisal.
In mid-1988 another 40 km of roads was added to the list. A final compendium of the pavement
works covered under the Project is shown in Table 2, together with the original list. A
comparison shows that 443 km of roads were completed and that most of the works proposed
at appraisal were carried out, but some 82 kn were built outside the original list although the
record does not indicate when this substitution was agreed between the parties. These
substitutions were made because some road sections selected for improvement when the project
was prepared deteriorated before the loan became effective and had to be repaired without
awaiting the availability of loan funds. At appraisal, it was agreed that four provincial roads
aggregating 172 km in length would be financed under the provincial road improvement program
and another about 128 km would be selected later (from a list of about 313 kn of provincial
roads). A final group of roads to be financed was agreed in January 1986. Most of these roads
corresponded to the tentative list, although the length varied on some of them and one new road
was added. Table 4 shows the list of provincial road improvements proposed at appraisal, the
list agreed in January 1986, and the list of roads aggregating 301 km which were finally financed
under the Project.
Bridge Reconstruction and Construction of Workshops
5.13       Both these categories, except for one bridge, were executed as proposed at
appraisal, but with much delay. By October 1988, 5 of the 14 bridge works were yet to be
started and construction of the three workshops had just begun. The list of reconstructed bridges
is shown in Table 3 (Bridge Reconstruction Works).



- 11 -
Completion of Casablanca-Rabat Expressway
5.14       This 29 km section of road (including a major bridge) was subject to ICB but
Moroccan firms were the low bidders and were awarded the work. This part of the Project was
substantially completed in mid-1987, more than a year behind schedule, though disbursements
continued for these works into 1990.
Equipment Procurement
5.15       The original and final list of equipment is shown in Table 5. Implementation of
equipment procurement was very slow and by October 1988 less than 20% of this program had
been implemented. However, in the end the original allocation of ioan proceeds for equipment
was more than used up. Some of the items on the original list were not procured under the
Project and others were substituted. No formal record was found for the justification or approval
of the revised list of equipment purchases. However, RTD indicated that reduction of
procurement under Lot 1 was agreed by a Bank mission in 1986 after many of the items were
otherwise acquired by RTD. According to RTD, the type and quantity of additional equipment
was approved by a Bank mission which visited Morocco in May 1988 when it reviewed the
bidding documents for the second tranche of equipment purchases. A side letter under the
Project also required the Borrower to replace outside of the Project, other items of road
maintenance equipment listed in the side letter. RTD) indicated that the maintenance equipment
which it held in 1982 was not replaced because it had not been written off.
Consulting Services-Provincial Roads Study Phase H
5.16       The provincial roads component of the Project was based on a study financed by
the Bank under the Third Highway Project. While that study had broken new ground by
including increased agricultural production as a main benefit of improving rural roads, data was
still lacking on the exact interaction between road investment and agriculturl production. A
second phase rural roads study, thus, was included under the Project to determine reliable
methods to measure the impact of better rural roads on crop yields, and, in particular, to
measure the impact on agriculture of the road improvements under the pilot rual roads program
of the Project. This second phase study also was to provide a basis for a fifth Bank road project
for Morocco by an analysis of 2,500 km of roads to be built and 2,500 km of roads to be
renewed.
5.17       A French firm associated with Moroccan consultants was engaged for this work.
While the study was to have been completed by early 1985, it was not actually started until after
the middle of 1984. The first report was issued in August 1985 and work continued for over
six years (instead of the originally scheduled 20 months), in hee phases, with numerous reports
and techno-economic and computer manuals not all of which are available in the Bank's files.
The work was interrupted in 1985 when the foreign members of the consulting team were
withdravn to France and again in 1988 because of delays in payment. Another cause of delays
was that RTD made changes in the priorities of roads to be studied. There were severe strains
in the relaonship between RTD and the consultants, with complaints on the part of the former



- 12 -
regarding timely and adequate completion of the work and on the part of the latter regarding
appropriate directions from the clients and payment for services as due.
Consulting Services-Freight Market Study
5.18        This study was carried out by an American/Lebanese consulting consortium. It
was to provide data and recommendations to improve productivity in road transport. The Project
design considered this objective to have great urgency and the loan's effectiveness was made
conditional upon issuance of the request for proposals for the study. Recommendations of the
study were to be implemented as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
5.19        The study was started about 9 months later than planned and took 2 1/2, instead
of 1 1/2, years to complete. One reason for the longer time to finish the work was that the study
involved getting information from other ministries of the Government and this required clearance
from the authorities.
5.20       Neither the Government nor the Bank were very satisfied with the results of the
study. Their comments were critical of the study's undue descriptiveness, lack of analysis and
for continued advocacy of some severe restrictions on road haulage. They also expressed the
concern that the study failed to examine such questions as the system of taxation on transport and
the supply of vehicles to Morocco, and failed to make use of available data on road usage.
5.21       The study was not amended after the comments. Instead, it became one of the
bases for the Study of Measures to Strengthen the Transportation Sector (see para. 5.22).
Consulting Services-Study of Measures to Strengthen Transportation Sector
5.22       This study (more aptly described by its French title Schema Directeur National
des Transports) was added to the Description of the Project in 1986 and was one of the studies
identified as part of the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) for Morocco. The study was
to provide a basis for reorganization of the transport sector and a transport sector investment
program. A British/Moroccan consortium was selected to do this work which was to extend
over 1 1/2 years beginning in March 1988. The assignment was divided into five major tasks
(missions). The Bank provided considerable oversight for this work and made substantive
comments particularly on the Mission 3 report (in mid-1988) which concerned the fiscal regime
and general public policy to be applied to transport. The draft report for Mission 5 (SynthWse et
Plan Directeur des Transports) was issued in January 1990, about 9 months later than scheduled.
The final version of the study (scheduled for June 1990) was to provide a basis for a program
of policy adjustments in the organization of road freight tansport under the Highway Sector
Project (Loan 3168-MOR of February 1990) and for an agreed detailed plan of action for
implementng this program. However, the detailed plan of action was never prepared. An
important cause for this was that the Govemment was dissatisfied with the results of the study
and with what the consultants had done.  The Govemment found that the consultants'
recommendations to deregulate the trucking industry were not justified. Partly, this may have
been due to the fact that the amount of effort spent on this study was much below what the terms



- 13 -
of reference had estimated was required. This study, as well as the Freight Market Study,
originated in an attempt to mediate sharp differences in views between the Bank and the
Borrower on road transport policy and other studies had been made in the past under similar
circumstonces. This experience casts doubt on the efficacy of studies to resolve policy
differences of this type.
Consulting Services-Study on Railways Operational Information System
5.23        This study also was added in 1986. However, it was never implemented under
this Project. No clear decision was made to drop this Project element but it appears that a
similar study may have been made by the Moroccan railways themselves.
Technical Assistance for MPW PLanning Unit
5.24        This part of the Project involved the services of two experts (a tansportation and
a water resources economist) for two years each. Because the Ministry did not follow Bank
guidelines in the appointment of the consulting firm which was to furnish the two experts, the
loan could not be used to finance their costs. However, their services remained a part of the
Project but no information is available as to what they accomplished.
Technical Assistance to RTD
5.25        Three experts were to be recruited, each for two years, to transfer skills in
economic analysis, help improve administrative procedures and assist in maintenance
management. The economic expert started in February 1985 and the maintenance expert in
November 1985. The management expert only started in February 1987 and was given a
broader assignment beyond the confines of RTD and was therefore attached to the cabinet. The
assignments of the economist and the maintenance experts extended beyond their original two
year terms and when these persons finally became unavailable in 1988, the Bank agreed to a
series of short term assignments to replace their services. RTD expressed general satisfaction
with the work of these experts. The work of the maintenance management expert was
considered particularly useful because it led to establishment of regional equipment repair
facilities.
FeDlowships
5.26        The description of the project was amended in 1986 to include fellowships to
improve the technical sldlls of RTD staff. An amount of US$50,000 was set aside from the loan
for this purpose, but very modest use was made of this feature, primarily to pay for attendance
at professional meetings overseas. The final disbursement on its account was US$60,000.



- 14 -
VI. MAJOR PROJECT RESULTS
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.01       Project objectives were based on the strategy for the road subsector set forth in
Morocco's 1981-1985 development plan, and included maintenance and rehabilitation of the
primary and secondary networks, improvement and expansion of the provincial network, and
support to major industrial and agricultural development projects. Several components of the
Project supported the first two objectives while construction on both the Casablanca-Rabat
Expressway and several of the provincial roads supported the last objective. All Project
components (with the exception of a 7% shortfall in the km of road strengthening) were largely
carried out as planned, though behind schedule, and the corresponding Project objectives can,
therefore, be considered fulfilled.
6.02       In addition, the Project sought to improve productivity in road transport (by
sponsoring a study of road transport regulation (the recommendations which would form a basis
for regulatory improvement and increased efficiency) and to strengthen the management and
maintenance of roads. The study of the freight transport market was carried out but did not lead
directly to any reforms in road transport regulation. However, it provided data for the Schema
Directeur National des Transports upon which discussions were based on transport policy
(including deregulation of road transport) under the follow-on loan for roads.
6.03       The Project contributed to increased in road management; road project analysis
and maintenance operations skills. It also helped to implement some of the recommendations
of the 1984 Road Maintenance Study financed under the Third Highway Project through
establishment and equipping of workshops and acquisition of road maintenance equipment.
These activities were part of a program under which about 26,000 km of paved roads would
receive routine and periodic maintenance over the years 1983 to 1987. This program was not
fully implemented for lack of funds with the result that the 1988 condition of the primary and
secondary paved roads (about 55% of all paved roads) had improved marginally but the terdiary
roads had deterorated significantly (60% in bad condition in 1988 as against 40% in 1983).
In 1989, Parliament established a Road Fund, whose proceeds are allocated primarily to routine
maintenance. This has helped put the road maintenance budget on a firmer footing, and its
success has now led to a proposal to extend its revenue base and provide the same protection
against fluctuations in the budget periodic maintenance as well.
6.04       Finally, the Project was to provide reliable methods to measure the economic
impact of improved rural roads as a result of the Rural Roads Study Phase II. The study turned
out a large volume of work to identify, plan and design improvements on specific rural roads
which could form the basis of a follow-on Bank project. In addition, an econometric analysis
(multiple correlation) was made which linked rural road improvements with touristic activity and
with increased mining output. However, on the basis of the documentation available in the
Bank, no analysis appears to have been made of the link between road improvement and
agricultural development.



- 15 -
Achievement of Physical Targets
6.05       The physical targets in terms of km of road works were met for the Pilot Program
of Provincial Road Improvements and for the completion of the Casablanca-Rabat Expressway.
The km of road strengthening completed fell about 15% short of the target of 469 km. The
reconstruc-tion of 13 out of 14 bridges was accomplished as was the construction of three
workshops. The acquisition of equipment under the Project corresponded only partly with
projections at the time the loan was made. Significant substitutions were made and the budgeted
amount was exceeded.
Project Costs
6.06   The final cost of the Project in terms of constant 1983 DH (DIH 650 million) is slightly
below the original estimate, exclusive of contingencies, (DH 667 million). In terms of US$ the
difference is similar, US$109.3 million base price as against final cost US$106.5 million
(applying a 6.lDH per US$ exchange rate to 650 million of 1983 DH). If the contingencies of
the original estimate are included, the final US$ cost is about 20% below the estimate (rable 8).
6.07       Most components of the Project were below estimated costs, but the expressway
and equipment procurement were slightly above estimates. Moreover, the savings in costs of
civil works are lower than appears because the onginal estimate for these works made no
separate provision for related consultancies, such as geotechnical studies and supevision. Their
costs (representing nearly two thirds of all consultancy expenditures) should be added to the final
cost of civil works. Savings are also less than appears because some of the civil works items
(pavement strengthening and bridges reconstruction) were slightly reduced in scope. A further
apparent reduction in terms of US$ is due to the fact that at times the DHIUS$ exchange rate
did not move in parallel with domestic inflation in Morocco.
6.08        Consultancy services appear to have cost much more than estimated at appraisal.
However, they now include, as already mentioned, civil works supervision and the rest of the
final consultancy costs are close to what was estimated at the start.
6.09       While overall fina! costs generally follow estimates, a few individual works were
significantly above or below projections (see, for example, bridge reconstruction in Table 3).
Also, the unit cost of pavement strengthening and provincial road improvement for individual
roads varied considerably from overall averages. For example, pavement strengthening could
cost as little as DH 200,000 per Ian or as much as DH 800,000 per kIn, while it averaged about
DH 500,000.
Disbursements
6.10       Table 7 compares actual with projected disbursements. The main delay in
disbursement is attributable to very slow start up during the first three years. By the sixth year
(1988/1989) the amount disbursed was very close to the revised profile which was prepared after
cancelation of US$8.4 million of the loan in early 1986.



- 16 -
Economic Reevaluation
6.11        Economic evaluation of the Project at appraisal was made for pavement
strengthening, bridge reconstruction, provincial road improvement and completion of the
Casablanca-Rabat Expressway. For pavement strengthening, the Staff Appraisal Report did not
provide precise economic return (ER) calculations for individual road sections, but all ER's were
reported to have been 35% or above. The analysis was based on the Highway Design Model
(HDM) and principally reflected reduced vehicle operating costs (VOC) attributed to reduced
pavement roughness incident to repaving. The analysis used traffic growth rates of between 4
and 9% per year. Considerable effort was expended in selecting a paving option and sequence
for each road which would yield the best ER.
6.12        RTD's reevaluation of the economic merits of pavement strengthening was
confined to 315 km of road sections, roughly three-fourths of all such works under the Project
and is considered a reasonable indication for the road strengthening program as a whole (shown
in last column of Table 2). The reevaluation was based on a simplified version of HDM called
EVAL which replicated the roughness parameters of HDM. The 70 road sections analyzed
ranged in length from 0.1 to 17.0 km and reestimated ER's were provided for all but 3 of the
70 sections. Of the 67 sections with ER's, 59 sections had ER's of 35% or more, 6 sections
had ER's of 24 to 34% and only 2 sections had ER's under 10%. The latter accounted for a
total of 5.1 km. RTD also recalculated ER's on the basis of the original cost parameters and
thus provided a comparison of ER's before the works began and after their completion. This
comparison showed that about half of the sections had higher ER's at completion and about half
had lower ER's. RTD's analysis was based on an assumed improvement in surface roughness
after repaving, immediately after the works were completed or at the time of the reevaluation
(early 1992) not on measures of actual roughness improvements achieved.
6.13        RTD also analyzed the evolution of some of the principal parameters used in the
economic evaluation:
For 293 km of road sections analyzed regarding pavement strength, the CBR
equivalent of the final strengthening works was within 20% of the CBR value of
the planned works on 193 km (or 66%) of the road sections.
-     For 315 km of road sections analyzed regarding costs of construction, actual costs
were within 20% of estimated costs on 120 km (or 38%) of road sections.
Traffic counts were provided for 319 km of road sections built and for 258 kmn of road sections
reevaluated. In a number of cases traffic in 1989 exceeded projections for that year (for 69 km
or 22% of the roads built). For 111 km (or 35%) of the roads built actual traffic was below
projections though still positive (with growth rates ranging up to about 6% per year) and for 139
km (or 43%) of roads 1989 traffic levels were below actual 1980 traffic counts. Another
presentation by RTD related to traffic in 1983 (though not showing actual counts) and indicates
that iffic growth from that base year was positive for 139 km (or 44%) of road sections for
which evaluations were made and negative for 178 km (or 56%). Traffic growth thus appears



- 17 -
to have been quite uneven and for about one-half of the roads, in terms of km, no growth
occurred at all. These shortfalls in traffic seem, however, to have had limited impact on the
ER's, a result which may be explained by the inherently high level of benefits in relation to the
cost of the works.
6.14       For bridge reconstruction, the Staff Appraisal Report showed that 13 of the 14
bridges included in the Project had an ER of "over 40%" while the other bridge had an ER of
23%. These ER's were based on the impacts on VOC of bridge weight restrictions, narrow
bridge carriage ways and poor alignments in bridge approaches. Removal of weight restrictions
was found to be responsible for the bulk of the benefits.
6.15       RTD used a similar methodology in its reevaluation, with primary emphasis on
the additional costs due to detours of vehicles which would be precluded from using a bridge if
it were not reconstructed. The results of RTD's reevaluation which was made for 12 of the 13
bridge reconstructions that were implemented (the bridge at km 148 on RP2 which had an ER
of 23% at appraisal was not rebuilt under the Project) showed an ER of "over 40%" for 11 of
these reconstructions and 30.8% for the other (the bridge at knm 47.2 on RP38 which had an ER
of "over 40%" at appraisal). As in the case of the road strengthening works, 1990 traffic on
the bridges fell below 1984 levels in a substantial number of cases (8 of the bridges) but the
ER's remained high. ER's also were substanially unaffected by the fact that the final cost of
the reconstuction wors exceeded estimates (in current DE) in 8 case. These results are
sumnmanzed in Table 3.
6.16       The Pilot Program of Provincial Road Improvement was definitely identified at
apprisal to the extent only of 172 kIn; an additional selection of 128 km was to have been made
subsequently from 313 km of roads listed in the appraisal documents. The ER's for these 485
kn of roads ranged at appraisal from 21% to 40% (best estimate) and from 5% to 40%
(alternative estimate based on alternative forecasts of agricultural impact). While many of the
orginal group of roads were dropped from the Project, three other roads aggregating 92 km
were eventually included in the Project but no documentation was available in the files to show
the ex-ante estimates of the ER's for these roads. The appraisal methodology to calculate the
ER's for this program was based primarily on the estimated impact on agricultural production
from the road improvements. The full impact was not expected to be reached for ten years. In
cases where this impact needed to be included to raise the ER for a particular road over 12%,
RTD was to submit evidence regarding the agricultural development potential in the road's zone
of influence. The record does not show that any such evidence was submitted for any of the
roads. The second phase of the Provincial Roads Study was to provide empirical evidence as
to the impacts on agriculture from improved roads, but as mentioned above (para. 6.04), the
Study did not generate this kind of data.
6.17       RTD did not attempt a reevaluation of the ER's for the provincial road
improvements included under the Project. RTD thought that such an exercise would not be
meaningful at his time because full agriculture benefits would not have accrued by now. As over
80% of the expenditures for these roads occurred only five or fewer years ago, significant levels
of agricultural benefits are unlikely to have been generated by now.



- 18 -
6.18       The Staff Appraisal Report estimated the economic merits of completion of the
Casablanca-Rabat Expressway on the basis of VOC savings, travel time savings and avoided
accident costs. The analysis projected congested conditions on the alternative existing routes.
With opening of the new expressway, this would be relieved to the benefit of both the diverted
and remaining traffic. Consideration of the impact on the parallel railway also was included.
The ER was estimated at 32%. The importance of VOC savings would be minimal in the early
years of the analysis period but would rise to nearly one quarter of all benefits in the tenth year.
Time savings would be the predominant benefit (over 80% at the start and 72% in the tenth
year).
6.19       RTD reevaluated the economic performance for completing the Expressway on the
same basis as at appraisal (except for reference to the railway) and came to an ER of 40%. In
the reevaluation the contnbution of VOC savings became relatively more important representing
nearly 47% in the opening year and still 44% in the eighteenth year. The costs of construction
rose only slightly over estimates and traffic in 1986 (the originally projected opening year) was
very close to projections on representative sections of the existing network:
! On RP1 Ferme Rossi-TUmara    4,200 projected v. 3,845 actual
On RP36 Skhirat-Oued Chamt   13,160 projected v. 12,204 actual
Actual traffic on these two sections had grown rapidly by 1990 to 5,402 and 17,147 respectively,
as against projections for 1996 of 8,750 and 20,220. The reestimated ER thus appears
reasonable.
6.20       In summary, the economic reevaluations, where they were made, show that
reestimated ER's are generally at levels equivalent to the ER's projected at appraisal despite low
traffic increases. However, no information is available on the economic performance of the Pilot
Program of Provincial Road Improvement. While the impact on agriculture may take some
additional time to materialize, an indication of taffic development on these roads would be
useflt as a preliminary measure of economic performance.
Environmental lIpact
6.21       There was no known adverse environmental impact resulting from the civil works
under the Project in terms of land use, expropriation, resettlement or any other ecological or
sociological aspect. The pavement strengthening and improvement works were largely on the
existing alignment and, therefore, would have had minimal effects on the environment. The
remaining road works also were improvements on existing facilities which frequently included
providing a permanent seal for previously unpaved surfaces. The environmental impact of such
works would typically be neutral or positive although only a detailed examination could confirm
this.



- 19 -
VII. PROJECr SUSTAINABILITY
7.01       The continuation of benefits from the road works carried out under the Project will
depend on adequate road maintenance. Maintenance has been the subject of a sustained
improvement effort before, during and after the Project, and there is an expectation that the
Project works will, in fact, be adequately maintained. More generally, the Project stands in a
line of Bank operations which have addressed the problems of Morocco's road sector on a long-
term basis. Most components of the Project thus have antecedents in prior Bank operations and
will be continued in the Highway Sector Project or the proposed Roads Improvement Project.
This includes support for road rehabilitation, rural roads improvements, procurement of
maintenance equipment, assistance to improve the operations of the highway authority and
reform of transport policy. This linkage of activities over time ensures that the initiatives of the
Project will be carried forward and their beneficial effects will be sustained.
V3II. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
8.01       The Bank's contribution to the Project was substantial. Missions and staff inputs
are summarized in Tables 12 OMissions) and 13 (Staff Inputs). Not only did the Bank provide
a new emphasis in Project design on resolving long standing regulatory problems in Morocco's
road sector but, in Project implementation, the Bank sought to find creative solutions (such as
the Special Action Program and the Special Account) for the problems which Morocco's budget
crisis caused in the Project. When the budget crisis prevented implementation of the agreed
maintenance program, the Bank gave serious consideration to providing additional funds for the
loan to enable the Bank to finance some of the periodic maintenance. The Bank also provided
significant assistance in technical analysis of pavement design and in procurement matters.
Nevertheless, in certain respects the Bank's performance could have been improved:
-     At appraisal, the Bank strongly supported a rapid disbursement projection but
apparently did not examine whether Morocco's budget situation would be able to
sustain this level of activity.
-    The Project was in practice a sector loan but the linkage between the works under
the Bank's Project and the overall road program was never made clear. This made
it difficult to establish the role of the Bank in supporting Morocco's road program
as a whole.
-     Although this was the Bank's fourth road operation in Morocco, the Borrower
ewperienced difficulty at times establishing and meeting the procurement
requirements of the loan even though the Borrower made strong efforts to ensure
that compliance was adequate. An explicit initiative to familiarize the Borrower
with Bank's requirements in the context of this Project would have been helpful.



- 20 -
After the budgetary problems related to the Project became explicit, the Bank
treated them somewhat in isolation and did not attempt to place them in the
context of Morocco's general fiscal crisis, at least not until the time of the PERL
in 1986. Nor did the Bank raise with the Moroccan authorities how most
effectively to deal with the crisis. For example, the Bank did not argue in favor
of funding maintenance before other activities, nor did the Bank raise the issue of
how the Government could reduce its obligations to its contractors with the least
effect on costs.
In the early years of Project implementation the Bank did not focus concentrated
attention on the execution of two of the major studies under the Project (the
Freight Market Study and Rural Roads Study Phase II). As these studies were
closely linked to major Project objectives, closer follow-up would have been
helpful. As it was, neither study fully provided expected results.
IThe Project involved a large volume of contracts and payments aU of which had
to be processed by the Bank without appropriate project monitoring tools. The
efficacy of this, in terms of Morocco's road operations and in terms of the call
on Bank staff resources, was not examined. Other arrangements for contcting
and works supervision may have been more cost effective and perhaps some of
the responsibilities of Bank staff could have been assumed by coordinating
consultants. The development of a project monitoring system or greater
application of Bank supervision resources would have been other alternatives.
IX. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
9.01       The bulk of ProJect activities were the responsibility of RTD. RTD's parent
ministry, the MPW, was responxible for implementing technical assistance to the Ministry's
Planning and Studies Department and the MOT was responsible for the Freight Market Study
and the Study of Measures to Strengthen the Transportation Sector.
9.02        RTD faced the challenging task of managing a large volume of construction work
carried out under numerous contracts in a period of acute budgetary stringency. RTD was
working mostly with local contractors with whom it had extensive previous relations and knew
how to deal with. As a result, its record was notable for the few difficulties or disputes it had
with these contractors, although there were some occasions when financing under the loan was
refused because RTD had failed to comply with the procurement requirements of the loan.
RTD's system of supervision relied primarily on its own staff worlkng with LPEE. While the
record does not indicate how well the supervision was done, the supervisory system appears to
have been adequate. Nevertheless, the question is raised whether the existing system for
execution of works is the most efficient and effective for Morocco, especally if the volume of
works is expanded and construction of local roads increasingly becomes the responsibility of
local authorities. In RTD's view, the 42 provincial offices of public works are equipped to



- 21 -
discharge these administrative, financial and technical tasks, especially in collaboration with the
provincial representatives of the Government services. According to RTD, special arrangements
are made for supervision of large works. The execution of smaller works will also be improved
by the newly instituted practice of grouping contracts.
9.03        Despite the budgetary problems, RTD maintained Project momentum as best it
could. Nothing in the record indicates, however, that RTD had an explicit plan for dealing with
the budget crisis, although in late 1985 it made a proposal to the Bank for reprogramming the
whole loan. A more deliberate response by RTD would have been helpful in raising and forcing
decisions on such issues as short term priorities in expenditures and cost, and the economic
implications of interrupting various types of work.
9.04        The MPW  had the limited role of procuring and managing two expatriate
economists to work on port and water resources problems, one of the responsibilities of MPW,
though not otherwise an objective of the Project. MPW failed to follow Bank procurement
guidelines and this part of the Project was therefore excluded from financing although the
services, to be executed by the Borrower, continued to be part of the Project. No information
is available in the record concerning MPW's experiences with this activity.
9.05        MOT was responsible for two major studies which cut across jurisdictional lines
of the Government and covered broader policy issues in the transport sector. MOT experienced
some difficulties in gaining the cooperation of other parts of the Government and this led to
delays. In similar cases in the future, prior discussion with other ministries where a study
requires inter-ministerial collaboration would be desirable in order to expedite a study once work
begins. Also, it appears that the execution of the second study went somewhat more smoothly
an the first and it seems reasonable to conclude that MOT had gained experience in managing
complex sectoral analyses.
9.06        AlU three agencies had some responsibilities for the selection and appointment of
consultants under the Project. Several of the consulting assignments were delayed due to
problems in this process. Lengthy clearances were required not only within the agency
immediately in charge, but from such supervisory bodies as the Ministry of Finance. For
example, the Bank gave its approval for one particular firm to do the work on the Rural Roads
Study in January 1984 but the work was not actually started until September of the following
year do to delays in completing contractual formalities. The Government may wish to examine
how the process for contracting of consultants could be rationalized to avoid delays in the future.
9.07        The Borrower's Performance with respect to LA is summarized in Table 10. Over
200 contracts were financed under the loan and it was not possible to ascertain compliance with
loan covenant specifications for each contract. However, examination of a sample of contracts
confirms that covenants were complied with.



- 22 -
X. RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE BORROWER
10.01      Relations between the Bank and the Moroccan authorities were friendly and
without undue difficulties. RTD made determined efforts to observe Bank procurement
requirements and to seek the Bank's advice on technical issues such as the design of pavements.
The Bank for its part sought to respond to RTD's requests promptly and thoroughly.
XL. CONSULTANT SERVICES
11.01      The Project made extensive use of consultant services. Not only were its major
components designed by consultants (under prior Bank projects), but consultants were employed
under the Project to provide technical assistance to improve Government operations, help in the
resolution of major transport policy issues and prepare the bases for follow-on Bank projects in
Morocco's road sector. The use of consultants to help train Government staff and otherwise
improve administration raises the question of fitting the Project's contribution into the
Government's more general program to improve management and into similar efforts by other
aid givers. The record does not indicate that these matters were considered in detail and more
attention to these points would perhaps have made these sorts of consulting services more
effective.
11.02      Bank attention to the work of the consultants varied considerably. It was most
intensive in regard to the Study of Measures to Strengthen the Transport Sector, but in other
cases the consultants did not have the benefit of detailed review of their work by Bank staff.
Bank staff resources obviously are limited and must be applied with an eye to cost effectiveness
and in accordance with consciously set priorities. This undoubtedly explains the care given to
the Study of Measures... which was seen as an essential prerequisite to achieving an improved
transport policy. Nevertheless, some review mechanism could be developed to ensure that major
consulting initiatives are caried out properly and will deliver the results which were promised.
However, even with limited Bank supervision some consulting assignments achieved good
results; a notable example was the assistance to the economic studies group at RTD.
XII. PROJECr DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.01      Original documentation for the procurement elements of the Project were contained
pardy in the SAR and LA and partly in side letters to the LA. This arrangement allowed a
degree of flexibility in the process of execution, but also dispersed the focus of the Project from
the specific works which were to be included in it. The Project also included as one of its
objectives the execution by the Moroccan authorities of a multiyear road maintenance program.
This program was not defined clearly in either financial or physical terms, with consequent
difficulties in monitoring of performance (para. 5.0S).



- 23 -
12.02      Data for preparation of the PCR were lacking in significant respects.  In
pardcular, information was not readily available on which works were finally included for
financing under the Project, which contracts related to these works, what was the course of
disbursement under individual contracts and how physical eiecution progressed under various
elements of procurement.
12.03      A more systematic presentation of objectives and more thorough monitoring of
their accomplishment would be desirable, particularly through more detailed and pointed progress
reporting.



- 24 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.01       The Borrower did not formally provide a summary statement about the Project
from the Borrower's perspective. However, the Borrower did comment on a draft of the PCR
(substantially similar in structure and content to the current version of the PCR). The comments,
which are attached in French, are reflected in the current version of the PCR and are
summarized below. They are wide ranging and serve as an excellent indication of the
Borrower's point of view.
1.02       The Borrower generally confirms the Bank's analysis on how the budgetary crisis
affected the performance of the Project. The Borrower considers its response to the crisis
appropriate. It continued the rapid execution of existing major works (such as the Casablanca-
Rabat Expressway) to avoid having to pay penalties to contractors and it affirms its strong
commitment to adequate road maintenance. It views its actions under the Project as consistent
with that commitment.
1.03       The Borrower acknowledges that the Project made some useful contributions to
improving the Borrower's tendering procedures. It also notes that the multiplicity of contracts
under the Project has been avoided under the current Highway Sector Project for roads by the
requirement that contracts be tendered in groups. However, in general the Borrower is satisfied
with the efficacy of its construction and supervision procedures.
1.04       The Borrower views the changes which were made in the content of the Project
as appropriate to the intervening change in circumstances. Roads which had been identified as
in greatest need of improvement in 1980 were supplanted by other roads, either because the
original roads had been improved in the meantime or because other roads had deteriorated to a
worse state. Similarly, equipment purchase programs were adjusted as deteriorated equipment
turned out to last longer than anticipated.
1.05       The Borrower agreed that the link between road improvement and agricultural
development had not yet been established and, it thought that agricultural development resulting
from better roads could not be documented for a long time. Consequently, the study of this link
which was foreseen in the Project, was premature.
1.06       The Borrower expressed satisfaction with certain individual technical assistance
advisors provided under the loan, though it was distinctly negative about some of the consulting
services rendered by firms.



QUATROE&9E PROJET R1TOER  (Prgt ?254 - N OR)
PT'DioJ do rapira d'SchV,omrng
02mmonntsIr0 de A'*mprOntour
Section                  Observations                                   Commentaires
5.01        Retard dans l'execution et penurie de fond Le projet a accus6 un retard de deux (2) ans dG essentiellement au
budg6taires                          manque de moyens budg6taires.
Le pr8t West entr6 en vlgueur que le 24108184, ators que ta date
originate de mise en vigueur etait prevue pour le 2310111984, soit
un retard de 7 mois qui nincombe pas a la DRCR.
Les restrictions budg6taires ont falt diff6rer dannee en ann6e
I'inscription dans les lots de finances de certaines operations
programm6es dans le cadre du 4eme Projet Routier. De ce fait, on
pourrait dire quo le d6marrage effectif de ce projet n'a eu lieu
quoen 1988 pulsque 1985 etait la demlrre annee du Plan
Quinquennal 1981-1985 et que les cr6dits inscrits en 1I et 1987
etaient tr6s faibles et permettaient a peine de consolider les marches
engag6s entre 1983 et 1985.
11 faut signaler 6galement que les reports 1985/86 ; 1986187
et 1987/88 ont 6t1 annules.
Par ailleurs, les d6marrages de proJot sont lents compte tenu des
d6lais que n6cessite la proc6dure de lancement des marches.
5.02        Les d6penses d;investissement        La Direction des Routes et de la Circulation Routiere atant l'organe
totales et celles des Travaux       d'6x4cution du 4eIne Projet Routier, it seralt souhaitable de
Pubtlcs ont balsse durant (es premieres  compl6ter le tableau donne dans cette section par son budget
annees de 1'ex6cution du projet.    d'investissement. voir tableau NO 1
6.04        Le gouvemement a 6prouv6 des         Le Maroc a choisi la vole de la reglonallsation et de la
difficultes & utiliser les fonds    decentraUisation. Dans cette optique, le MTPFPC s'est dote d'une
du pret en raison d'une multiplicit6  repr6sentation au niveau provincial gui traite de toutes les



Tableau I
Dpenses par secteur                  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
en Milliards de dirhams
D6penses totales d'investissement      9    12,5     8      7   9,3  13,3
Depenses d'investissOment des T.P.     1,9   2,8   2,5   1,5   1,6   2,5
% (invest. T.PfTotal Invest)            20    22    31    21    17    19
Depenses dlinvestissement DRCR             Oa ,76  ',66 o, 23  0 21  o,55
% (INVEST. DRCR/INVEST.T.P)             19    27    28    15    13    22



GUAThOE&AE PPROJET ROUTEiR  (prt 24 - NOR)
Prolot de rappoot d'schvwm'ent
Commoentl"r   de i'emprontOur (SRft)
Section                  Observations                                    Commentaires
de march6s relativement petits       activites conti6es au d6partement.
Les responsables routiers ont procede, dans le cadre du Projet
Sectoriel Routier (Pret n 3168 MOR), A des regroupements
d'operations en l6ts importants. Les march6s correspondants sont
lanc6s A l'echelon r6gional. II est trop t6t pour tirer des legons
sur le mellteur d4coupage possible .
9.02        La question reste pos6e cependant     Chaque Direction Provinciale des T.P, au nombre de 42, dispose
de savoir si le systeme existant     d'une structure lul permettant d'assumer Iensemble des
crexecution des travaux est le       taches administratives, financieres et techniques relevant
plus efficace et le plus effectit    de ses comp6tences en liaison avec les de6lgations provinciales
pour le Maroc.                       des autres administrations, en particulier,
cellos du Ministere des Finances pour r'engagement et
le palement des depenses.
Le controle d'ex6cution des travaux est assur6 par le service infrastrncture
des DPTP qui fait appel syst6matiquement aux agences regionales et I
provinciales du Laboratoire Public d'Essai et d'Etudes pour effectuer les
essais de vWriffcation de conformit6 aux sp6cifications.
Ce systeme, par la connaissance des specificites locales, permet
d'optimiser le rapport qualit6/cofGt lorsque les op6rations
sont r6partles sur Iensemble du territoire, ce qul est notamment le
cas du r6seau routier.



QUTFaEWR  PROJET ROUTIER  (prG 2264 - Man)
IPFw-r4t do rapport d0aoOh4vmont
commenteals deGom'prO ntour (suite)
Section                  Observations                                    Commentaires
Toutefols pour des op6rations isol6es de grande importance des
structures sp6cialis6es sont cr66es. Cela a 6t6 fait notamment pour
le contr6le d'ex6cution du tronqon d'autoroute inclus dans le projet.
La multiplicit6 des march6s qu'entraine ce systeme ne pose aucune
,i1fflcult6 de gestion aux services exterieurs de la DRCR.
Pour chercher plus d'eficacit6, une experience a 6t6 lancee pour le
groupement en lots de certaines sections rentrant dans le cadre du
projet sectoriel routier (Pret n 3168 MOR)
5.05 - 5.06  Prise en charge d'un programme       La sauvegarde du patrimoine routier par un entretien ad6quat
d'entretien de l'ordre de 173 millions    demeure la pr6occupation essentielle des responsables du secteur
de dlrhams (1983).                   routier. Pour assurer aux usagers de la route un niveau convenable
Les rapports sur les d6penses r6eies pour de confort et de s6curit6, la DRCR no cesse de d6ployer des efforts
I'entretien sont contradictoires.    considerables pour la recherche de fonds internes et extemes pour
le flnancoment surtout des op6rations dentretien.
C'est ainsi que lo iD6partement a cr6e en 1989 un fonds Routier
intltul6 "Compte d'Affectation Sp6ciaIe d'Entretien RoutierT
allment6 par des taxes des usagers de la route. Ses recettes sont
destin6es aux op6ratlons d'entretien routier.
Le tableau n donne les cr6dits r6ellement d6pensds pour les
travaux dentretlen routier et de maintenance du r6seau entre 1981
et 1987.
On constate que la moyenne des d6penses d'entretien de 1981 A
1987 est de 348 mlfflons de DH qui d6passe de loin le montant
convenu do 173 millions de DH.



Tableau 2
Millions de dirhams                 1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987 Moyenne
D6penses d'entretTen ( emissions )   294   618   432   127   165   256   553          348
Entret.1Total Invest (%)              80    82    86    56    73    47    6 5
N)



QUATRhEME 1R'JET ROUTIER           2254 - NOR)
Pr*2 de rapport d 'athbWvoen
Comm  ttsrfa de l'omprhtwer (suis)
Section                  Observatiors                                  Commentaires
Le rapport de supervsion dcAvril 1985 indlque que les d6ponses
d'entretlen de 1984 repr6sentalent 57 % des cr6dits ouverts A ia
DRCR. Cost le taux d'mission enregistr6 en 1984 (cr6dIts 6misl
cr6dft d6t6gu6s). Le rapport no menthonne nulle part quo les
d6penses de 1984 etalent de 57 % du montant de 173 millions de dirhams.
Los termes du rapport de la mission routiere de la Banque (28
Mars -8 Avdit 1985) ont ete mat interpr6t6s.
5.07        Impact de la penurie de fonds n'est  11 y a lieu de rappeler que Ilachevement de lAutorouto Casablanca-
pas uniforme pour toutes ses parties.    Rabat sur 29 kms a 0t6 lanc6 blen avant la crise 6conomique.
Les d6caissements pr6vus pour       Au moment de la p6nurie de fonds, les cr6dits aliou6s oat 06
I'autoroute Casablanca-Rabat ont    exciusivement destines a la consolidation des march6s. LVAutoroute
ete effectu6s de moitie au cours    Casablanca-Rabat 6tant engagee, la consolidation des march6s qui
des trots premieres ann6es du       lul sont afferents s'imposait. Les travaux so r6alisalent A un
projet au moment ob seul le 1/5 du pret  rythme satisfaisant et If fallalt payer leas entreprises, raison pour
dans son onsemble a 6t6 d6caiss6.   laquelle les retralts de fonds de la Banque pour i'Autoroute
Casablanca-Rabat sont elev6s par rapport aux autres parties du
projet qui n'ont d6marr6 qu'en 1988.
Pour compenser le retard dans les palements atx entreprises,
r'administiraton na pas appliqu6 les p6nalit6s de retard et aucune
r6clamation n'a ete faite.
5.10 et 8.01  Un certain nombre de proc6dures   Nous sommes surpris des commentaires faits dans te rapport
differentes de passation de march6 ont 6t d'achAvement A savoir quo les -Autorites marocalnes n'ont parfols
appliqu6es... Les autorit6s marocaines   pas appliqu6 correctement les r6glements stipul6s dans l'Accord de
n'ont parfols pas appllqu6 correctement  et quo l'Empruntsur a eu des difficult6s consid6rables a respecter



QUATRIEVE PROIE  ROUTIER  (Pr@t 2254 - NOR)
Prvot de rapport d'ascbvment
Comrnntalres do I'oempOnftur (tuft)
Section                  Observations                                   Comm res
les rgiemonts stipul6s dans raccord   les 6igences dU prt en matlere do pston des machW.
de pr#t.                             Los diectives de la Banque ont ft scrupuleusem    respoct6s et
et nous avons mnme fasts plus en demandant syst6matiquement par
exemple Paccord de la Banque sur Is r6sultat des appets doffres
m6me quand ceoa ntVt  pas n6cessalre. Certes il y a eu un 6change
de correspondences fructueux au d6marage du projet qul a permis
radoption (Yen CPS type pour laS travaux de genie civil et r6tabllssemrnt
cun dossier d'appel dcoffres pour les march6s dracquisltlon
de materiel des T.P et de materiel d'entretien routier
11 y a eu quelques cas de march6s lanc6s par appel doffres local
avec un d6lai de publicHt Inerleur a 30 jours . Des Insructions
avaTent &6 donndes par l respect de oo delais.
5.12 et 6.01  92 km ont Mt6 construits           Los changements apport6s dans la lIste initals des rutes &A
en dehors de la aiste originale et 431 km  renforcer proviennent du d6lai 6coule entre l'evaluation du projet
ont 6t6 achev6s solt une r6duction de 15  en 1982 et rex6cvuton des travaux en 1988/89. Des erreurs se sont
de la longueur A renforcer.          glss6es dans le tableau 2. Pour la DTP de Beni-Mellal, II y a lieu de
romplacor RP21 par RP 24, leas PK restant Inchanges. Par contre
crune insuffisance de 15 % dans to  les ajouts effectu6s sur la RP 24 au tmtre des DTP de Beni-MetUal
kilom6trage de renforcement do chauss6m et d'AzIlal sont A supprimer faisant double emplol avoc les
pr6c6dentes.
Cl joint en annexes le tableau n 2 corrig6 et les commentaires
sur le tableau NO 4
11 convient d'apporter cortaines pr6cislons
b la tongueur convenue & l'6vatuatlon est de 469 km mal les sections
Identlfi6es sont de 464 ion. II taut ajouter les 40,1 km
suppl6mentalres solt un total de 604,1 kn.
l* a longuour totale rentorcee est de 443,5 km au lieu de 431 km



QUAThROGEME PROJET ROU'eIXR Prt* 2254 - NIOR)
Prolot do rappore d'aoh(vemont
Cam oentair.  de l'euinprOnllur (wuIn)
Section                  Observations                                   Commentaires
(of tableau n* 2 corig6).
* la longueur des sections pr6vues dans la liste originale et non
r6alise6e dans to cadre du 46me projet routler est de 71.6 km et
les sections r6alis6es en dehors de la liste originale totallsent 11
km et non 92 kn solt une r6duction de longueur de 60,6 km
repr6sentant 12 % qui n'ont pas et6 justifles dans le 4&me Projet
Routler mals qui ont 6t6 r6alie6s en dehors du prOt A 1'exc6pdon
de deux sections de 5,2 km (4,1 km de la RS 302 PK 0 - 4,1 dans
La Wliaya de Fbs et 1,1 km de la RP 7.5 - 8.4 et 12,8 dans la
Wllaya de Casablanca).
11 faut signaler que rIldentlficatlon du projet a 616 talte en 1980 et
la r6alisation n'a eu lieu qu'en 1988. II est normal de r6ajuster les
sections A ronforcer et r6aliser les sections les plus d6graddes.
Alnsi des sections , retenues dans la liste originale, qui no
pouvalent pas attendre le d6marrage du projet, avalent requ un
revOtement superficiel et 6taient 6cart6es du projet. D'autres
5.14        dhvolutlon de 29 km d'autoroute      Los travaux de l'autoroute ont t6 d6volus & des entreprises
marocalnes parce qu'elles 6talent les moins-disautes lors des
consultations Internationales.
5.15        Acquisition lente                    La DRCR venait d'acqu6rir enl9 82 un lot Important de differents
types de mat6riel T.P. dont la liste est donn6e on
Los aquisitions prevues dans le cadre du 46 projet routler ont ete
repouss6es en fin de ce projet, atin d'1valuer la rentabilt6 du
materil acquis en 82. Ainsi 80 % des acquisitions ont ou lieu en
89.
Non respect du programme Initlal.   Le mat6efel devant 6tre acquis en 2 lots.



QUATRIENE PROJET IROUTOER  (r  2254 - NOR)
Proot de rapport d'esohvemont
Commontaireel de romprontoer (suite)
Section                 Observations                                   Commentaires
Les quantlt6s du lter lot ont subit une r6duction importante on
accord avoc la B.M. (C.F. rapport de la mission du 5 au 13
septembre qul pr6ciso blen que "la quanth:6 de mat6rdel pr6vue
pour la promlere tranche a 0t6 r6dulte A la valeur de 23.2 M dh
au lieu de 50 Mdh) par suite d'un report des cr6dits au dela de 1986.
La nature et les quantit6s du 2bme lot ont ft6 approuves par la
mission de la BM du 21 mals 1988 dans le cadre de rexamen des
dossiers d'Appels d'Offres (Cf rapport de la mission de la B.M. qui
pr6clse que vrimportant programme cracquisifon de mat6riel a Mt6
discut6. II s'agit d'un dossier serieusement preparW. "le rythme
pr6visible de mise a disposition des cr6dits onmp&che de lancer
un seul A.O. II faudra donc pr6voir un A.O crenviron 24 M Dh en 88, et
un A.O. pour le resto du mat6riel en 89). Les quantit6s et ia nature
des 6quipements correspondalent aux besoins et aux urgences qui
avalent 6volu6es depuls I'6valuation initiale.
D'autre part, tous les march6s sont approuv6s par la S.M.
D6passement des pt6visions          Les pr6visions des enveloppes ont et d6pass6es, suite aux
changements de la nature et des quantit6s des 6quipements
susvis6s.
Renouvellement du materiel          La ORCR n'a pas acquis la listo du mat6riel pour to renouvellement
on dehors du 4eme Prot.             des engins de l'entretien routier mentlon6e dans une lettre annex6e,
car Ie mat6rlel acquis en 1982 n'etait pas encore techniquement
amorti.
5.16        Difcult6s rencontrees pour          L'6tude des routes r6gionaies comportalt 3 volets



QUAThE@E PROJET IOUTOER  (Pr  22n54 - NOR)
Pro8ot de ripp@rt d'wh6Mvment
Cognomontalres do  I'onsrprObtur (sulte)
Section                  Observations                                   Coinmentaires
5.17 et 6.04 Ittude des routes r6gionales        * une 6tude d'limpact soclo-6conomique de la construction des
routes.
11 ne semble pas qu'une anatyse     *une 6tude pour ldlaboraton d'un programme de 2500 km de routes
alt 0t6 fafte surie lien entre         A construire.
rarneioration des routes et le       * Une 6tude pour relaboraoon dun programme de 2500 km de
developpement agricole.                routes a r6nover.
L'tude ffimpact avalt. uniquement pour oblet d6laborer un systbme
de sulvi pour l'evaluation des effects socio-6conomiques engendrbs
par la construction des routes. Le cadre de ce syst6me a &t6 6tabli
et les donn4es de base ont et6 recueltlies pour tes 10 routes
r6gionales construltes dans le cadre du 3e projet routier. Etant
donn6e r6volution tres lente de l'impact sur l'agriculture, trbs
d6pendant des conditions climatiques. il ne pouvait etre esp6r6
dobtenlr dans le cadre de retude un lien entre Vam6lioration
des routes et le d6veloppement agricole. La mise en oeuvre du
systeme de suivi no faisant pas partie des attributions du
consultant, il ne pouvait donc btre 6tabll de liens bases sur
P'am6lioratlon des routes et le d6veloppernent agricole.
Los 2 autres volets de l'Otude qul n'6tatent pas lids au pr6c6dent
ont Wt6 men6s & bonne fin malgr6 les d6faillances du consultant qui
avalt sous-estim6 dans son offre la difficult6 de l'6tude, to
condulsant & no pas respecter la clause d'Ilnstallation des experts
au Maroc.
Los dtudes men6es directement depuls l'6tranger ont subi un retard
Impotnt at eg6n6r6 des d6penses suppl6mentalres pour le



QUATRDEMU PRDJET ROUTER  (prot 224 - NOR)
Projet do rapport d'aohvoment
Comm tSlres de V'eopr0nteur (sURI)
Section                  Obvaon                                         Commentar_s
consultant qul ne pouvalt ainal maintenir des contacts troits
permanents avec IAdministratlon et son partenasre local pour
prendre on temps opportun leas d8cisions que n6cessitait le
d6roulemont de ctte 6tude.
5.25        Assistance technique & la DRCR.      Le travail des consultants a 0t6 appr6cl6 par la DRCR.
L'etude de tarification des transports par route men6e par l'expert
6conomique a et6 A la base de la cr6aton du Fonds Routfer qul a
pormis d'augmenter les ressources affect6es IL rentretlen routier.
Les travaux men6s par l'expert en gestlon du mat6riel ont permis
de more en place lea parcs rf6lonaux (SLM) charg6s de la geson
de l'ensembie du matdrlel.
5.28        Bourses                              La formation du personnel technique de is DRCR est support6eo par
le budget g6rW car sil no n6ceoslte pas do palement en devises.
La part Imput6e sur le prft (60.000 dirhams soft 7.50 $ au lieu des
60.000 $ mentlonnds) n'est qu'une infime partie de 1'effort fait par
la DRCR dans ce domaine. Ce montant n'a servI quo pour le r6glement
dos tats de paticipation A des s6minalres & I'6tranger.



- 36 -
PART mI: STATISCAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED IMA CREDT AND BANK LOANS
ILan Number                                                       FY of
and Iltle             Purpose                                 Approva       Status
Credit 167-MOR    Roaa construction and improvement on two long road    70   Completed;
First Highway     sections; road strengthening, reconstruction and           PPAR #1565
Project           Improvement on shorter sections; bridge construction;      4M
mainenance equipment and parts; transport survey of
Adantic Coastal Region.
Loan 955-MOR      Constuction of part of Casablanca-Rabat expressway;    74  Completed;
Second Highway   improvements on shorter sections of primary and             PPAR #4019
Project           secondary roads; maintenance equipment; traffic            6/82
studies in Casablanca and Rabat; establishment of a
transport planning office in Ministry of Transport;
detailed ngineering of part of Casablanca-Rabat
expressway.
Loan 1830-MOR    Pavement strengthening and preservation on short   80       Completed;
Third Highway    sections; maintenance equipment; study of 80 road           PPAR #7015
Project                     organization; economic feasibility studies       11/87
and engineerig work for pavement strengthening
under Fourth Highway Projects; assistance to the
Miistry of Transport on transport planning and
coordinadon; weighing scales.
Loan 3168-MOR    New construction of secondary and tertary roads and    91   Ongoing
Highway Sector    some primary roads; rehabilitation of roads and
bridges; road maintenance; maintenance buildings and
equipment; sudies (including provincial roads
studies), technical assistance (including development
and implementation of a pavement maintenance
system) and training.



- 37 -
Page 1 of 3
TABLE 2: STRENGTHENING AND MPROVEMENT WORKS
EVALUATED
ORIGINAL  LIST                FINAL IIST            BY RTD
Secion Location         Chainago      Lmngth        Chainago       Length      LAngth
Distict          Road No.    (kn no.)        (kn)          (km no.)       (kn)        (kn)
Khumist            RP1       124  - 129       64.6     137  - 145.4         54.0       40.5
134  - 169                148.7- 161.5
188  - 207                174.5- 188
207  - 212.6              188  - 198.5
198.5- 207.3
Fes                RP1       303  - 308       11.0     303.6 - 303.7        11.1        6.1
314  - 320                314  - 320
|Taza              RPI       351  - 352       52.5     351  - 352           50.5       43.9
363.5- 365                36^.S- 365
370  - 386                370  - 386
397 -399                  397  -399
410  - 414                410  - 413.5
43S  - 443                435  - 441.5
! ___________    _________  453   -    473            453   -    473
Oudja              RPI       542  - 548       12.0     542  - 548           12.0       12.0
572  - 575                5m    - 575
____________    _________   580   -    583             580  -    583
Meknes             RP1       258  - 264       6.0      258  - 264           11.3       11.3
207.3- 212.6    _
Tanger             RP2       224  - 228       14.0     224  - 228           13.0         0
233  - 234                236.5- 238
265.5- 238                240  - 243
240  -243                 259  -263.5
259     263.5
Keitra            URP2       131  - 134       10.0     131  - 134           6.0          0
136.8- 143.8              138  - 141
Tetouan           URP2       147.7   150      10.4     148.3 - 150          8.3         5.2
163.9- 167.5              163.9- 167.5
180  - 183                1SO  - 183
212.5- 214
Kidtra             EP3        0-   6          6.0       0-   6              6.0          0
Meknes             RP3       101  - 106       16.0     105  - 106           14.0       13.5
117  - 123                107.5- 108.2
128  - 133                117  - 122.3
128.5- 132.5
131.5- 132.5



- 38 -                                      page 2 of 3
TABLE 2: STRENGTHENING AND IMPROVEMENT WORKS
POST
EVALUATED
ORIGINAL LIST                FINAL LIST           BY RTD
Secio  octon           Chainag        L-engti      Chainago      Length   Length (kmn)
District     Road no.        (km no.)       (km)        (kmno.)        (km)
Kenita          RP6        75- 80            8.0       78  -80           5.0         0
102- 105                    102  -105 
Mekes           RP6        11 - 16           12.0      11  - 12          9.0         7.1
19 - 26                     20  -26
32  - 34
Casablanca      EP7        7.5- 12.8         10.2      8.4- 126          9.1         9.1
18.6 - 23.5                 18.6 - 23.5
Setbw            RP7       41 - 42           18.5      42  -50          20.0         9.0
68 -73.5                   79  -82
79 -82                     95  -104
95 -104
El asia         RP7        171 -178         24.3      171  - 177         23.3        17.2
185.7 - 203                185.7 - 186.3
186.3 - 190.5
190.5 - 203
Csablanca       EPS        22 - 24           2.0       22  - 24          2.0         2.0
Settat          RPS        27 - 42           15.0      27  - 42          15.0       15.0
El Jadida       RPS        184 - 187         3.0      184  - 187         3.0         3.0
Agou&            RPS       497 - 504         7.0      497  - S04         7.0         7.0
E    _sowra     RPS        50 - 58.5         8.5       Dropped
Setta           RP10       31.6- 61.6       30.0       Dropped
Meknes         URP13       21.5- 25          3.5       Dtopped          -
Beri Melawl     RP24       255 - 256        22.0      255  - 256        12.9        13.0
264.5 - 272                264.5 - 272
273.2 - 274.5              273.1 - 274.5
300- 303                   300  - 303
351  - 352
355 - 363.2
Agadir          RP30        0    4.5         12.3      45  - 47.5        12.3         0
45  52.8                    0  -  4.5
47.5- 52.8
Manikech        RP31       14 - 16            2.0     _14  -  16         2.0           0



- 39 -                                 Page 3 of 3
TABLE 2: STRENGTHENiNG AND IMMPOVEMENT WORKS
POST
EVALUATED
_______________               ORIGINAL LIST                FINAL LIST           BY RTD
Section Locaton                       Length       Chainage      Length   Length (kn)
iDistrict    Road no.       (km no.)        (kn)        (km no.)       (kn)
|Teonan        URP38        0  - 3          12.0       7  - 11           9.0        9.0
7 - 11                    24  - 26.2
25 - 30                    27.2- 30
Marfakech       RP40       87 - 95          40.0      87  - 95          46.0       40.0
206 -138                   106  - 123
123  - 138
__________   _________     _________    141  -  147               _  _ _ _  _
Phouribga      RS133        2  - 9.2         7.2       Dropped
Taour_t-       RS302        0  - 24         24.0       Dropped
AIz              RP24       Added                     351  - 352         9.2         0
355  - 363.2
Settat           RP13       Added                     31.6 - 48.5       29.9        29.9
48.5 - 61.5
Meknes           RP21       Added                     21.5 - 25          3.5        3.5
Khounbga         RP13       Added                     78.2 - 80.3        2.1        2.1
Tetouan          RP28       Added                     242   - 248        6.0        6.0
Sidi-Kacem       RP6        Added                     80   - 82          5.0         0
95   - 98
Fes             RS302       Added                      4.1  - 16.8      20.0        20.0
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _________   ______________   _________   16.8  -   24.1
Fes             RP1         Added                     271   - 27         6.0        0
TOTAL                                                   443.5      325.4
Sources: Side Letter No. 2 of October 24, 1983 and RTD



TABLE 3: BRIDGE RECONSTRUCTION WORKS
Roadway             Estimated                            Actual
Length &             Cost of                           Econ Cost
Width of     1984  Replacement    Ex-ante     1990        of       Ex-post
Bridge Location  Type of   Exisding    Traffic    Bridge       ER       Traffic    Replacem!t    ER
Problem    Bridge     (vpd)  (DH' 000)       (%)       (vpd)       Bridge       %
____________                    (m)                                                   (DH  000)
Accepted
RP 28 - Km 152.4   W         21.4x6.0      740      1,500    over 40        654        1,223     over 40
RP 28 - Km 14.2    W, N      22.2x3.4    1,270      6,200                   642        7,510
RP  1 - Km 556.2    W, N     19.0x5.3    2,020      1,600                 _1,639       4,062
RP  I - Km 545.3    W, N, A   47.0Ox.0    2,080     3,200                  2,217       3,813
RP 7 - Km 118.6    W, N      113.0x4.5    4,840    14,500                  3,691      23,233
RP 3 - Km 72.64   W,N        56.6x5.2    2,910      3,000                  3,017       3,502
RP 3 - km 75.2    W          31.1x6.0    2,910      1,000                  3,017       3,266             |     0
RP 38 - Km 47.2    W, A       13.6x6.5    3,040     1,500                  3,814       2,928      NA
RP 3 - Km 54.1    W,N        46.5xS.2    4,030      4,000                  3,017      10,430   _
RP  I - Km 530.6   N,A       92.4x5.1    2,080      9,600                  2,217       6,105
RS 106 - Km 119.7   W,N      44.0x3.0    2,310      4,500                  1,000       2,423
RP 31 - Km 153.6    u        36.0x5.0    1,050      2,500                   820        2,448
RP 19 - Km 71.3    W,N,A    27.8x2.7    1,590       2,100                   800        2,874      30.8
RP 2 - Km 148.0    A         10.0x6.0    4,550      1,300        23                    Not implemented
TOTAL                                     =        55,000                 73,816   [
Source: Table 4.1 of Staff Appraisal Report and RTD
"Paved ford, which becomes impassable on average 4 times per year for about 2 hours each time.
a Borrower total is DH 73,680; difference is due to rounding.



Page I of 2
TABLE 4: PROVINCIAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT WORKS
DistrSct      Road     OR       Length  Motorized  Rainfall   Condition   Econ.    Compte   Traffic            Traffic    Agricutt  Best        Alterna-   Agricul.
no.      or        (km)    Traffic       (mm)    of exist    Coast       Agric.    after         Benefits  Benefits  Estimate   tive         Oest.
F                March 82               Track        Road       Invest.  opening       (NPV,      (NPV,      ER (X)     Estimate  Project in
(Vpd)                             tiprov.   1987-91   New Road     OH m)      ON m)                  ER         Road's Zone
(O  am)   (DH m)                                                   (*         of Inftuence
Accepted for first trand
Teoa          RS 603   (OR)                  40         1200    Very Poor   12.B        1.0       120 (1984)  8.9        |23.0      |21          40        |Loukous
|_________             CF)1'      44        MA          VA        MA         20.8e     MA            MA        MA         MA         KA         MA
Chefthacuen  RS 608   (OR)        55         14        500      Barely       34.6      4.4       130 (1984)  47.4         37.7       23         24
Ipassebte__ _ __ _
_______   (F)  56    MA         MA        MA         5.9t    KA            MA         MA         MA         MA         MA
Taza         CT 4904  (OR)        17        329        400      Poor          4.8      0.5       580 (1984)   11.0        10.1       33         23         
(F)       14         MA         MA      MA            4.3"    MA         MA            MA         MA         MA         MA KA  MA
Agadlr3      CT 7027  (OR)        56        15        3Mo       Barety       16.4      12.2      270 (1984)  48.4         63.0       40         30         Upper Sousse
_________        ~~Passabte            I__ _I_
(F)       Not       Not         Not        Hot       N.l       Not         Not         Not        Not        Not        Not
Ilplem   lmpte      Iqplemen  Itopleen       .......    l       .letplemen  I plemen   Implemen   Imptemen |Iptemen
ented      ted         ted        ted       68.6      nted        ted         ted        ted        ted        ted
Setected for Second Trncdhe (asmgre  in 6anu          6) t--6_
Settat       CT 1427  (OR)        43        150        340      Poor         11.9      6.6       260 (1984)   14.5        69.7       37       | _25
|______  |(F)        30         MA   H|     A      HA           15.221    MA            MA        MA         HA       jMA          MA |
Azizal       CTI8OSA  (OR)        31         1         750      Impassable  15.5       1.0       160 (1984) | 13.4        46.5       29       | 5
___    |_| (F)    |45                       M A         MA      MA           41.821              _ N  NA      MA          MA         NA|   |MA
' OR stands for roads proposed at appraisal and F stands for roads actually built under the Project.
'2 Final Financial Cost.
3- This road has been reassigned to Taroudant District



Page 2 of 2
TABLE 4: PROVINCIAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT WORKS
District     Road     OR       Length  Wtorized  Rainfall  Condition   Econ.    Coepe    Traffic         Traffic   AgricuLt  Best        Aterna-  Agricut.
no.      or       (km)    Traffic      (M)    of exist    Coast    Agric.   after           Benefits  Benefits  Estimate  tive         Devt.
F                "arch 82             Track        Road      Invest.  opening      (NPV,     (NPV,      ER CX)    Estimate  Project in
(Vpd)                           lvprov.   MT87-%1  New Road    oN a)       DN *)                ER         Rosd's Zone
(OR m)   (ON U)                                                 (X)*      of Influence
Narrakechb   CT 6201  (OR)       27       31         260    Very Poor   7.8        1.4       60 (1984)   3.1        22.6       25         19
__ __                     NA(F)  NA  IVA        A      NA          NA        A NA         NA                  NA        NUA        NA
Narrakech    CT6301/  (OR)       23       54         400    Very Poor   6.2        0.7       120 (1964)  4.S        25.0       39        32
6308
(F)       20        NA        NA      MA           12.42*    NA       MA           MA        NA         MA         MA
Beni teltat CT 1510 (OR)NA                                   NA          NA        NA        NA          NA         MA         NA        NA         smallt
____   F)    -Drop#d   Dropped  ped   roed          rapped  Dropped       ped     Dropped   Dropped   Dro          Dropped   mealum irro.
Setected _n ttY
Tanger     _CT 7027  (F)         57       NA         NA                 13NA                 NA          IA         NA        MA         NA MIA
_o_ur_       CT 1510  (F)   T12  T -jT N               A         NAU    1 6.     NA    1  NA            |NA         MA N      A |         INA
* Excluding benefits to non-agricultural induced traffic and alternative forecasts of agricultural ioWct (faster reaction by farmrs that 'Best Estimate' in case of
3 roads in Tetouan and Chefchaouen distrfets).
Sources: Table 4.2 of Staff Appraisat Reprt, Bank fites and RTD
' This road has been reassigned to El Kataa des Sreghnas District.



- 43 -
TABLE 5: EQUIPMENT PROCURED UNDER THE PROJECT
Proposed                             Actualy
To be Purchased                         Purchased
Items                               Under the Project                    Under the Project
Original                        let lot           2nd lot            Total_
Motogrgader, 130/150 HP          11                 7                 18                 0
Front-end loader, 70/90 HP       18                 18                36                 0
Steel-wheel roller, 6 T          18                 is                36                 0
Vibrating roller, 2T             19                 16                35                 0
Dump truck, 8 T                                     6                  6                 0
Dump truck, 6 T                  10         __10                                         0
Patching trcl k                                    20                 20                 24
Snow blower                       -                 5                  5                 7
Service vehicle                  78                56                 134                8
Pick-up                          30                29                 59                 30
4-wheel drive vhi4cl_            12                 -                 12                 12
Bailey bridge, SO m              3                                     3                 3
A dded                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Hand and vbfting rollers         0                  0                  0                 S0
Tnck wAhi snow blades            0                  0                  0                 7
Tank and dump truck              0                  0                  0                 47
Towing and lubrication truck     0                  0                  0                 3
Mobilecrmes                      0                  0                  0                 3
Hand tools for RTD vchs.         0                  0                  0            Not indicatd |
Sources: Side Letter No. 2 of October 24, 1983 and RTD



- 44 -
TABLE 6: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned     Revised      Actual
Identification                                         12/80
Preparation Beginning         2/81                     10/81
Preparation End               8/82                     4/82
Appraisal Mission             9/82         5/82        5/82
Loan Negodations              2/83                     2/83
Board Approval                3/83                   3/29/83
Loan Signature              10/24/83                  10/24/83
Loan Effectiveness          01/23/84     3115184      8/24/84
6/15/84
9/17/84
Loan Closing                12/31/88      6/30/90     12/31/90
12/31/89
12/31/90
Project Completion          12/31/87     12/31/89     12/31/90
.  12/31/90



- 45 -
TABLE 7: CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMIENTS
(IJS$ million equivalent)
Quarter      Odginal    Profile     Actual
FY84
Sep. 1983           .65
Dec. 1983           .65
Mar. 1984          1.05
Jun. 1984          2.65
FY85
Sep. 1984          7.20                   0.63
Dec. 1984         13.60                   0.63
Mar. 1985         20.20       1.00        1.75
Jun. 1985         25.60       1.91        2.43
FY86
Sep. 1985         31.80       4.83        3.21
Dec. 1985         38.70       7.66        3.77
Mar. 1986         45.70      10.72        5.58
Jun. 1986         50.80      13.79        7.18
FY87
Sep. 1986         56.00      18.38       13.84
Dec. 1986         61.20      22.98       15.86
Mar. ?'87         68.20      27.58       21.79
Jun. 1 87          70.60     32.17       21.85
FY88
Sep. 1987          73.90     36.77       26.21
Dec. 1987         77.20      41.36       35.44
Mar. 1988         80.50      45.96       42.36
Jun. 1988         83.20      50.56       44.20
FY89
Sep. 1988         84.60      53.62       50.02
Dec. 1988         85.00      56.68       55.62
Mar. 1989                    6128        60.36
Jun. 1989                    65.88       60.36
FY90
Sep. 1989                    67A1        65.09
De. 1989                     68.94       65.09
Mar. 1990                    72.00       73.87
Jun. 1990                    75.07       74.68
FY91
Sep. 1990                    75.83       75.61
Dec. 1990                    76.60       76.35
Mar. 1991                                76.58
Jun. 1991                                76.60
Note:  Profile is revised profile based on reduced loan amount after cancellation of US$ 8.4 million, and
revision of Closing Date to December 31, 1990.



TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS
S amion eqWvalent)
Item                     .      APaisat Estmeates                          Actuat                     Variation
Local      FE        Total          Local             FE      Total
A. Rlad Infrastructure
1. Civit Works
a. Pavement strengthening and
foprovement                          16.6      20.3       36.9             7.7              20.7       28.4         -23.0m
b. Bridge reconstruction                4.1        5.0        9.1             3.2               5.8        9.0          -1.1t
c. Pilot Program of provinciat
road Sepovement                      11.9      11.9       23.8             6.9              16.8       23.7          -4.2X
d. Coopletion of Cassbtanca-Rabat
Expressway                           11.5      14.0       25.5             6.3              20.0       26.3          +3.11
e. Construction of Workshops            0.6        0.4        1.0             0.3               0.6        0.9         -10.01
Sub-total Civil Works                         44.7      51.7       96.4            24.3              63.9       88.3          -8.2X
2. Road maintenance and workshop
equipment                                3.7        6.6       10.3             3.0               8.6       11.6         .12.6X
3. Provinciat Roads Study, Phase II        0.2        0.2        b.4             NA               NA         NA
Subtotal Road Infrastructure                  48.7      58.9       107.6            NA               NA         NA
S. Freight Trnwport Proucftivity
1. Freight Narket Study                    0.2        0.4        0.6             NA               MA         NA
Sub-total Freight Transport Productivity      0.2        0.4        0.6             NA               NA         MA
C. Strengthening Public klwks Ptamirn
1. TA for NPW Planning Unit                0.2        0.3        0.5             NA               NA         MA
2. TA for RTD                              0.2        0.5        0.7             NA               MA         hA
Sub-total Strengthening Pubtic Works
Plaming                                   0.4        0.8        1.2             KA               MA         MA
Totat Baseline Costs                          49.2      60.1       109.3            MA               NA         NA
1. Physical Contingencies                  1.7        2.1        3.8             NA               NA         MA
2. Price Contingencies                     8.8        9.5        18.3            NA               NA        MNA   _
D. Addd Cc_oft
1. Fellowships                                 0          0          0               0                0.06       0.06
2. Study of Neasures to Strengthen
Transportation Sector                       0          0          0              NA               NA         NA
3. Study on Operational Information
System to Natfonal Railuay Office
0         0          0      Not implemented
under this project
A3  B1. Cl. C2. 02                                                               1.9               3.7        5.6
TOAL PROJECT COSTS                       99.7      71.7       131.4                             76.3      105.6         -19.61
Sources: Bank Files and RTO
Note: Project costs are based on current Do costs as reported by the Borrower. DO inflation over the years 1983 to 1990 resulted in a roughly 50X loss
In the value of the currency.  Foreign exchange cost correspond to the amount financed by the Bank at an exchange rate of about OH 8.5 per USO (the
rates vary somewhat by category). This is not necessarily the foreign cqmponent which would result from application of Rank rules for such calculations.



- 47 -
Table 9: PROJECT FINANCNG
(US $ million equivalent)
Ites                              Aporaisal    Estimates                          Actual
Total   8ank      Borrower  X of Sank  Total   Bank   Borrower  0X of Bank
________________________________ _ _  _Share                            Share
A. Road Infrastrueture
1. Civil Works
a. Pavement strengthening and
improvement                       36.9    23.7    13.2          64.2       28.4   20.7       7.7       72.9
b. Bridge reconstruction               9.1      6.7      2.4        73.6       9.0   S.8        3.2       64.4
c. Pilot Program of provincial
road improvement                  23.8    15.3       8.5        64.3        23.7   16.8      6.9       70.1
d. Completion of Caseblanca-
Rabat Expressway                  25.5    17.6       7.9        69.0        26.3   20.0      6.3       76.0
e. Construction of Workshops           1.0      0.6      0.4       60.0          .9   0.6        0.3      66.6
Sub-total Civil Works
2. Road maintenance and workshop
equipment                             10.4      7.0     3.4        67.3        11.6   8.6       3.0       74.3
3. Provincial Roads Study, Phase it       0.8      0.6      0.2        75.0        NA     NA        NA        NA
Subtotal Road Infrastructure                                                                                     _
8. Freight Transport Prodaitivity
1. Freight Market Study                   0.6      0.4      0.2       66.6
0.6      0.4      0.2       66.6                     See below.
Sub-total Freight Transport
Productivity
Strengthening Public Works Planning
1. TA for MPW Planning Unit               0.5      0.3     0.2        60.0
2. TA for RTO                             0.7      0.5      0.2        71.4                    See below.
Sub-total Strengthening Public Works         1.2      0.8      0.4        75.0
Planning                                                   I
Total Baseline Costs                      109.3      72.6    36.7
Unaltocated                               21.5"      11.7      9.8                                See below.
Front end fee                              0.6        0.6      0         100.0
0. Added coamnmts
1. Fellowships                                                                      0.006  0.006        0         100X
2. Study of Measures to Strengthen
Transportation Sector
3. Study on Operational Information
System for National Railway Office
4. All Consulting Services
(A1,B1,C1, C2, 02)
__ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __   _ _  5.63'   3  7a  1.92  66.1
TOTAL                                 131.4   85.03'    46.4         64.7      106.2  76.6"    29.3          72.4
Sources: Bank Files and RTD
" Total unallocated represents total contingencies less front end fee.
2t This amount includes the cost of contruction supervision services performed by the Laboratoire Public d'Essais et dsEtudes.
2 Total is 84.9. Difference is due to rounding.
f Total is 46.5. Difference is due to rounding.
"  Total of Bank financing is 76.6; difference is due to rounding.  Difference between 85.0 and 76.6 is due to cancellation
of 8.4.



- 48 -
Page 1 of 2
TABLE 10: STATUS OF COVENANIS
Loan Agreement                    Description                                Status
Reference
LA 3.01           The Borrower to provide or cause to be provided the Morocco's difficult fiscal situation (partly
funds required to cany out the Project.      reflecting IMF requirenents) slowed down
Project execution, throughout the
implementation  period.    Maintenance
expenditures fell greatly below intended
amounts.
LA 3.02(a)        The Borrower to employ Laboratoire Public d'Essais Numerous contracts were entered with LPEE
et d'Etudes (LPEE) to do soils and materials testing  for such services.
for supervision of construction.
LA 3.02(b)         The Borrower to employ consultants to carry out Consultants were employed for all items except
Parts B(1), B(2), B(3), B(4), C(l), and C(2) of the B(4) which was added by the Agreetnent of
Project.                                     November 4, 1986 but was not executed even
though it was a condition precedent to the
Bank's Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan.
LA 3.03(a)         The Study under Part B(2) to start by January 31, The actual date of notice to start was in
1984.                                        September 1984.
LA 3.03(b)         The study Part B(2) to be completed by July 31, The actual completion of draft report was
1985.                                        about March 1987.
LA 3.03(c)         The Borrower to furnish Bank with the findings and Bank provided with draft report in June 1987.
recommendations of study under Part B(2) promply
upon completion.
LA 3.03(d)         The Borrower to implement the recommendations of Recommendations were to be reviewed in the
the study under Part B(2) as shall have been agreed context of the Transport Policy and
between Borrower and Bank.                   Development Study (Part B(3)) which also was
to produce an action plan for transport
dcgulation.
LA 3.04(a)         Borrower is to insure imported itans financed under No check has been made to determine whether
the Loan.                                    all imported items were covered by insurance.



- 49 -
Page 2 of 2
TABLE 10: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreeeaet                DescrIption                                    Status
ReereC
LA 3.05(a)       Borrower  shall  furnish  to  Bank  plans, Most plans and specifications were available at
specifications, contract documents etc. for the appraisal. Contract documents were furnished.
Project.
LA 3.05(b)       By Septemnber 30 of each year, Borrower to submit The Bank, in October 1984, received a submission
to the Bank for review and comment, the proposed on maintenance for the years 1983, 1984 and
construction and maintenance program  for the 1985.  In April 1985, the Bank received the
coming year.                                program for civil works for the coming five years,
including the year 1985. In October 1985, the
Bank received the Government program to finance
the Project for the years 1986, 1987 and 1988. In
November 1986, the Government handed over to
the Bank the road maintenance plan for 1987. In
December 1987, the Government handed over the
road maintenanee plan for 1988. The covenant
was complied with in geneal though submissions
were often late and incomplete.
LA 3.06(c)       By October 31 of each year, Borrower to submit to Nothing submitted in Octobe 1983. In October
Bank for review and comment detailed engineering 1984, the Borrower noted that no works would be
and bidding documents for reconstruction of bridges required to be submitted for 1985 and that only a
and for improvement of secondary and terdary few  contracts would  ever fall under this
roads to be included in the fotlowing calendar year, requirement.  This requirement was therefore
to the extent such works exceeded the thresholds waived by letter agreement of February 20, 1985.
specified in Schedule 4 of the L.A. Documentation
regarding secondary and teriay roads should
include an economic justification.
LA 3.06(a) (iii)   The Borrower to submit regular reports.   Reports were received regularly.
LA 3.06(c)       Borrower is to pepae completion report within six Received in two pan, the second one in early
months of Closing Date.                     June 1992, 17 months after closing date.
LA 3.07          Borrower shall acquire land as required for Project. Project not affected by land acquisition problems.
LA 4.02(b) (ii)  Borrower shal fumish Bank within six months of Reports received though somedimes with delays.
end of Morocco's fiscal year, copies of audit report
on Project accounts.
Source: Bank Files



- 50 -
Table 11: '" IOGRESS OF DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORIES
(US$ million equivalent)
Original       Di sbursed      Disbursed       Disbursed        Final
Categories           Atlocations    as of 12/85     as of 10/86      as of 2/89       Amounts
Disbursed
Pavement strengthening,        23.7               .4             1.8            16.7            20.7
and loprovement            _
Bridge reconstruction           6.7              0                .2             2.2             5.7
sec. & Ter. Roads               15.3              .7            2.3             12.8            16.7
Inprovenent
Casablanca-Rabat                17.6             2.1             9.5            19.3            19.9
Expressway
Workshops                        .7              0                .7              .3              .6
Road maintenance                7.0              0               0               1.6             8.5
Equipment
Consulting services             1.7              0                .3             3.2             3.7
Fee                              .6               .6              .6              .6              .6
Unallocated                     11.7             0               0                               0 _
Total anoumt of loan           85.0             76.4           76.4             76.4            76.4
Total amount disbursed           0               3.8            15.4            59.9            76.4
Total amount of
di sbursment projected           0              38.7           56.0             76.4            76.4
for that time
Note: Cumulative disbursements as of 12/87 were US $32.6 million and as of 3/88 US S42.4 million.
I US $3.2 million of unallocated reallocated to Casablanca-Rabat Expressway (US $1.7 million) and consulting services (US $1.5
mnllion).
Source: Bank Files



- 51 -
Page 1 of 2
TABLE 12: MISSIONS
Month/   No. of   Days in    Specialization        Ratings     Nature of
Year   Staff       Field        Represented                    Problene
Through Appraisal    10180       2         7      Highway Engineer
Economist
2/81      2         12      Highway Engineer
Economist
6/81      2         11      Highway Engineer
Economist
10/81      2         13      Highway Engineer
Economist
2/82      2         16      Highway Engineer
Economist
6/82      5         18      Highway Engineer
Economist
Loan Officer
Financial Analyst
________________        _Division Chief
Appraisal through    10/82       2         12     Highway Engineer
Board Approval                                    Economist
__________________     1/83       1         2      Economist
Supervision          10/83       1         10     Highway Engineer         2      Financial
2/84      2          8      Highway Engineer        2      Financial
Economist
10/84      2         8       Highway Engineer        2      Financial
Economist
4/85      2         12      Highway Engineer        2      Financial
Economist
10/85      1         10     Highway Engineer        3       Financial
5/86      2         15      Highway Engineer        3      Financial
Division Chief
10/86      3         33     Highway Engineer        3       Financial
Highway Engineer               Oev. Inpact
Economist
6/87      2         12      Highway Engineer        3      Financial
Economist                      Dev. lmpact
12/87      5         12      Highway Engineer        2      Financial
Economist
Economist
Division Chief
Division Chief



-52-                                                Page2 of2
TABLE 12: MISSIONS
Month/   No. of   Days in          Specialization         Ratings      Nature of
year     Staff       Field         Represented                        Problems
Supervision        3/88        2          10      Highway Engineer       2                Financiat
6/88       2           12      Highway Engineer       Limited supervision; no
Economist              ratings given
10/88       2           14      Highway Engineer       2                Financial
Economist
2/89       2           13      Highway Engireer       Limited supervision; no
Economist              ratings given
9/89        1          4       Highway Engineer       Limited supervision; no
ratings given
5/90       2           9       Highway Engineer       2                Financial
Economist
11/90       2           6       Highway Engineer       2                Financial
Economist
3/91       2           5       Highway Engineer       2                Financial
Economist
Source: Bank Files



- 53 -
TABLE 13: STAFF INPUTS
(in person-weeks)
Preparation    Appraisal   Negotiations         Loan         Supervision       PCR           Total
Processing
To  FY82          20.9            10.2                           3 8                                          35.0
FY83                         30.4            4.0            12.7             .6                          47.7
FY84                                                                       17_ __  4.2                   1.
FY85                              __                   _                   14.1                          14.1
FY86      __ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _  _ _      14.3       __ _  _ _ _ _      14.3
FY87                     _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _   __  _ _ _   __      17.4       __ _  _ _ _ _      17.4
FY88      _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _   __9.2              _   _ _  _ _        9.2
FY89                     _ _ _ _ _ __                     _ _  _   __       9.6       _   _ _ _ _         9.6
FY90                                                                        8.3                           8.3
FY91                                                                        7.1     |                     7.1
FY92                                                     X                                                 t
TOTAL          20.9           40.6            4.0            16.5           95.5             ?              ?
Source: Bank Files



- 54 -
Diagram I
PLANNED AND ACUAL  LENMTAI[ON
Calendar Year                1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990          1991
Ministry of Public Works
Original Components
Road Pavement Strengthening               _  _  _ _
Bridge Reconstruction                      -              -         -       -
Provincial Roads                                 _  _
Expressway Construction                    -     _ _  _ _
Workshop Construction
Maintenance and Workshop Equipment
Provincial Roads Study                   .                          _ _
Techo  Assistace to PW Planning                                                      - _
Technical Assistnce to Roads Dept.        -                           _ . _ _ _
Added Components
Felowhips
Ministry of Trasport
Oinginal Components
Freight Market Study
Added Conponents
Study for Measures to Strengthen
Transportation Sector                                                              _ _ _
(Original schedule not indicated)
Study on Operational Information
System for National Railway Office
(Original schedule not indicated. Not
implemented)
Planned Implementation:
Actal Implementaion:
Source: Staff Apprisal Report and RTD
Note: Atal implemenation as shown in this diagram is based on expenditures reported by RTD, not physial completion.
Moreover, RTD expenditure data show pecent completion only as of the end of each calendar year. The diagram therefore is
based on the assumption that expenditures began in the middle of the first year in which any expenditures were reported and that
expendkur  wer complected in the middle of the year when expenditures were reported as having been as completed. For
exape, aWresway construction was substantially completed in 1987 when 84% of total expenditures were shown but some
contraig and expenditures continued until 1990 when 100% expenditures were finally shown.



IBRD 2417
14                                                                                                                                                              4.                               2 U'
MOROCCO                                                                                                                                  c r r anean    Se                                                t
FOURTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                                                                                                          A  ACEIMA
Br.dig.s r* oc.tructed                                                                                                                                                                 sR. ro AtOCER
A    WorkshopT   f,R aood  maintiemarco *quipment                                                                                      _E
NEW  CONSTRUCTION,                                                                                                 S.A., AWd <            z ' 
-              ProrrisPro l i rilood
t PREVIOUS PROJECT5                                                                                                                                                 K-          o            3f                 - 0
M-aS l  roads costr cled                                                                                                                                   A
-     So,dr roadisSA
----Tracks
4   AIrports                                                                                 CASABLANCA
Ports~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LJ
Elations  b    lO O1 trr.tors                                                                                           'IDZE
*   National copitol                                                                   S                      K                                            M 4.t
*   pro,irrcial capItol                                                                  . .t                                       a t 
i-   totrrnatioaai bourdari                                                                                                                       f                                                                 f /.
Indicates the  r  t    herrtory of ;                                                                                                                                                                         -    lA32
fo,~    Schwa Mosier"m '                                                                                                                A.mo )  or
/;/ T    $ t;  *'-           '          r,>,-AP PR{/
CANIARY                                                                                                  ~m    ~to,tl
ISLANDS                                       <       /                              , 
( SPoi.)                             9    /                ooTh-'                                                                                                                                              .
C(Sp Tan)z:                                                 ff                     :           z  /                               1-                                 4                                n shf
rdt,bodorSboWoro99



