Document of                              FILE    Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3475-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$85 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 4, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$l = DH 6.1
DH 1 = US$o.164
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilometer (Km) = 0.62 miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIF              Cost, Insurance and Freight
MPW              Ministry of Public Works
("Ministere de l'Equipement")
MOT              Ministry of Transport
("Ministere des Transports")
ONT               "Office National des Transports"
RTD               Roads and Traffic Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:             US$85 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:              Amortization in 17 years including 4 years of grace, at
variable interest rates.
Project
Description:        The proposed project aims at lowering transport costs,
helping to reduce regional income disparities,
strengthening the planning capability of key institutions
in the transport sector, and raising the productivity of
road transport services. The project consists of: a) road
works, comprising continuation of the Roads and Traffic
Department's program of pavement strengthening and
improvement, reconstruction of bridges, a pilot program of
improvement of provincial roads, and completion of the
Casablanca-Rabat expressway; b) continuation of the Roads
and Traffic Department's program of routine and periodic
maintenance of the classified road network, renewal and
acquisition of maintenance equipment, and construction and
equipping of workshops for such equipment; c) a study of
provincial roads; d) a study of the freight transport
market and regulatory system; e) technical assistance to
strengthen institutional planning capability.
The main project benefits will be lower transport
costs. Other benefits comprise reduced future road
rehabilitation requirements, avoidance of road accidents,
passenger time savings, and increased farm incomes. The
principal project risk is the possibility of shortfalls in
allocations by the Government of funds required to fully
implement the project. Such shortfalls would postpone
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
benefits expected from particular components, but would not
seriously affect the economic justification for other
project items. The Government has confirmed that it will
provide needed funds. A second type of project risk is
posed by the possibility of delays in the start-up and
execution of the freight market study. This risk has been
minimized by requiring progress in hiring consultants for
the study as a condition of loan effectiveness.
US$ Million
Estimated                                                          % Foreign
Capital Cost:                       Local    Foreign   Total         Exchange
Ministry of Public Works
Pavement strengthening
and improvement                     16.6      20.3       36.9       55
Bridge Reconstruction                  4.1        5.0       9.1       55
Pilot Program of Improvement
of Provincial Roads                11.9       11.9       23.8       50
Completion of Casablanca-
Rabat Expressway                    11.5      14.0       25.5       55
Construction of Workshops              0.6       0.4        1.0       40
Road Maintenance and
Workshop Equipment                   3.7       6.7       10.4       64
Provincial Roads Study                 0.2        0.6       0,8       70
TA to MPW Planning Unit                0.2        0.3       0.5       70
TA to Roads and Traffic Department  0.2          0.5        0.7       70
Ministry of Transportation
Freight Market Study                  0.2         0.4       0.6       70
Total Base Cost                       49.2       60.1     109.3       55
Physical Contingencies                 1.7        2.1       3.8       56
Price Contingencies                    8.8        9.5      18.3       52
Total Capital Cost                    59.7       71e7     131.4       55
USt Million
Estimated                                                           % Foreign
Maintenance Cost:                   Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
Periodic Maintenance                  39.1      47.8       86.9       55
Routine Maintenance                   26.3       14.1      40.4       35
Expected Price increases              15.2       12.8      28.0       46
Total                        80.6       74.7      155.3      48
Total Project Costs                  140.3      146.4     286.7
Front-end fee                                     0.6       0.6



( iii)
Financing_Plan:                                         US$ Million
Government           Bank Loan      Total
Local    Foreign   Total       Foreign
Capital Items                     59.7        -         59.7        71.7        131.4
Periodic Maintenance              48.0       45.0       93.0        12.71/      105.7
Routine Maintenance               32.5       17.1       49.6           -         49.6
Total                        140.2       62.1      202.3        84.4        286.72/
Capitalized front-end fee on Bank loan                               0.6
Total Bank Loan                                                     85.0
US $ Million
Estimated
Disbursement: Bank FY:  1984          1985        1986    1987      1988      1989
Annual                     2.7        22.9        25.2     19.8      12.6      1.8
Cumulative                 2.7        25.6        50.8     70.6      83.2    85.0
Rate of Return:             Over 40 percent overall on the following items of
civil works, comprising, in all, 87 percent of the
cost of the capital items in the project: pavement
strengthening and improvement, bridge
reconstruction, pilot program of improvement of
provincial roads, and completion of the
Casablanca-Rabat expressway.
Staff Appraisal
Report:                     Report No.4266 MOR, dated March 2, 1983,
Transportation II Division
Projects Department, EMENA Region.
1/ The Bank will finance 22 percent of the foreign cost of periodic
maintenance indirectly, by disbursing a uniform 64 percent of expenditures
on capital items.
2/  Includes taxes and duties of approximately 22 percent.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Government of Morocco for the equivalent of US$85 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Fourth Highway Project. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at variable
interest rates.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A report on Morocco's Public Sector
Investment Program for 1981-85 is expected to be distributed to the Board
shortly. An economic mission on industrial incentives and export promotion
was in Morocco in September 1982. Country and Economic Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco has also a relatively good agricultural potential. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
1/ Parts I and II are essentially the same as in the Oulmes-Rommani
Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-3413-MOR of November 22,
1982).



4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force
was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector,
and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Expansion in the Mid-1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious, and the
original 1973-77 Development Plan strategy stressed an intensified savings
effort and development of exports. In 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled, and although the
petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the
balance of payments remained in surplus. The Plan's concern for exports and
savings lost some of its urgency. The Government launched a massive public
investment program which brought about a sharp acceleration in the rate of
growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the rate of 6.7% per year between
1973-1977. The expansion of the investment program also led to a considerable
increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share in GDP doubled
from 19% in 1972 to 37% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Phosphate
prices continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as
for tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession. Agricultural production and exports entered a period of prolonged
stagnation and Morocco turned from a net exporter to a net importer of
foodstuffs. As a result of all these factors, the growth of exports of goods
and nonfactor services, which in constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in
1968-72, averaged only 1% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public expenditures, and particularly
increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western
Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the
Government budget. While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early
1970s to 32% in 1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from 15% of GDP in
1972 to 20% of GDP in 1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to
10-12% in 1976-77. The large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose
to an unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance
the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which
led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service burden. The debt
service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7%
in 1977.



- 3 -
8.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 22% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Budgetary
outlays rose from 19% of GDP in 1972 to 39% in 1977. As a result, the
Government's overall budget deficit increased sharply, reaching peaks of 18%
of GDP in 1976 and 1977.
Stabilization Program 1978-1980
9.        In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to 3% (in real terms). These measures of fiscal restraint were combined
with tight credit policies and stringent import controls. As a result, the
overall budget deficit declined to about 10% of GDP and the external payments
situation improved in 1978. Later, however, the stabilization program
encountered a number of obstacles, including poor harvests, petroleum price
increases and the rise in interest on the commercial debt. In addition,
internal pressures led to some relaxation of the highly restrictive fiscal
policy adopted in 1978. By 1980 both fiscal and external imbalances were
still substantial: the resource gap (in current prices) remained at about 11%
of GDP, and the ratio of the overall budget deficit to GDP at about 12%.
10.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 27% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
reached 27% in 1980 and their share of GDP represented 22%.
11.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price and volume increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill and a rise in external
debt interest payments, the current account deficit before grants was reduced
from $l.8 billion, or 17% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980.



-4-
12.      The adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment has
probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment
creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the policies followed since 1978 have
had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been only
partly successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.
Recent Developments
13.      In 1981, the economy was subjected to strong external shocks:  a
substantial increase of imports of cereals, following a drought which reduced
agricultural value added by about 23% in real terms; a large appreciation of
the US dollar; and a rise in foreign interest rates, which further increased
the cost of debt service. As a result of these factors, economic and
financial performance worsened. Gross domestic product fell by 1.3% in real
terms, the Treasury deficit reached 14% of GDP in 1981, and the current
account deficit reached $l.9 billion in 1981 (12.6% of GDP). Economic
activity improved in 1982 as agricultural production recovered thanks to a
good harvest, but phosphate prices weakened. adversely affecting export
earnings. GDP is estimated to have increased by 5 to 6% in real terms but the
external payments situation has not improved significantly. The budgetary
situation improved somewhat as a result of a combination of tax increases and
expenditure restraining the measures adopted in the framework of a stand-by
agreement reached with the IMF in April 1982, but the Treasury deficit remains
high.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The initial development strategy in the 1981-85 Plan period was to
reach a high rate of GDP growth (6.5%), needed to obtain an acceleration of
employment creation and a strengthening of Government programs for social and
regional development. The Plan projection was, however, too ambitious and
although the financial constraint lessened somewhat in 1982 as the economy
recovers from the 1981 drought, Morocco's external financial situation will
remain difficult in 1982-85 and will continue to constrain GDP growth.
15.      Bank projections for the 1981-85 Plan period are based on the
assumption that exports of goods and non-factor services could grow by 5.8% in
real terms, while imports of goods and non-factor services would be allowed to
rise by no more than 0.5% p.a. in real terms, as the need for food imports is
expected to diminish, the increase in capital goods and oil imports to slow
down, and payments for military equipment to be lower. Moreover, the growth
in investment expenditures would not exceed 3.1% p.a. in real terms. Given
these assumptions, domestic savings could recover from the abnormally low 1981
level (7.8% of GDP) to reach 12.5 % of GDP in 1985, the resource gap would
gradually decline from 13.3% of GDP in 1981 to 7.5% in 1985, while GDP could
still grow at about 4.5% p.a. in real terms or just over 1% per capita.
16.      The projected export growth would result from an increase (in real
terms) of 6.6% in phosphate and phosphate based products and 9.5% p.a. in
manufactured products between 1981-85. Such a performance would depend upon



identification of new markets and could be accomplished only if high priority
is given to export promotion. In the case of finished and intermediate
products, the extent to which the projected increase in exports would
materialize depends on the revision of incentives granted to exporters, the
diversification of Moroccan exports towards non-traditional exports and new
markets, and the appropriate level of the exchange rate.
17.      A sustained reduction of the trade gap will be difficult to achieve
unless growth of merchandise imports is drastically curtailed. This would
require not only a higher increase in agricultural output so that the level of
food imports would decline in real terms, but also an effective domestic
pricing policy so as to limit the growth of petroleum imports (assumed at 1.3%
p.a.) from 1981 to 1985. It would require moreover a reduction of the capital
goods imports growth to 1.8% p.a. in 1981-85 through cuts in Treasury civilian
investment with respect to the level planned in the 1981-85 Plan, and a
revision of the various investment codes so as to reduce financial incentives
to imported capital goods.
18.      In view of the projected stagnation in per capita household incomes,
any significant increase in domestic savings would mainly come from
substantial improvements in Government savings performance. As part of the
1982 stand-by arrangement between Morocco and the IMF, several measures and
reductions in real Government expenditures were implemented in 1982. The
Bank's projections assume that progress will continue in this area.
19.      Given the strong constraints on investment levels, the future rate of
growth of the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation
and the efficiency of investment. In conformity with the Plan objectives, the
Government should start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict
the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.   Priority is to be
given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive and which
use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition, particular
attention will have to be paid by the Government to manpower planning and to
the employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from
rising.
Social Development
20.      Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current outlays. However, social indicators
still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The limited
effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income groups,
especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major issue, and
the strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes rural development in
rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in Morocco currently live,
and the need to improve mechanisms for delivering services to meet basic needs
at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is also being
made to increase the involvement of local communities in meeting basic needs,
particularly for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these



- 6 -
areas, implementation of these policies would help meet the needs of
low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
21.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. In October 1980, the
IMF approved an extended arrangement for a three-year period in the amount of
SDR 810 million in support of a medium term program of financial adjustment.
This arrangement was interrupted in 1981 when it appeared that the assumptions
and targets of the EFF program were no longer possible. It was replaced in
1982 by a stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR 281 million and purchase
of SDR 236 million under the Compensatory Financing Facility.  The 1982
financial program, which was supported by the standby arrangement now drawing
to a close, sought to reduce the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments (excluding grants) to 10% of GDP and to decrease the overall
Treasury deficit by one-third to 8% of GDP. Other major elements of the
program included an upward revision of the interest rate structure, restraint
in overall credit and monetary expansion, further trade liberalization, and
progress with respect to both tax reform and reform of the state enterprises.
Preliminary data indicates that the targets under the standby for end-1982
were met. The performance criteria of the program were observed and Morocco
was able to make the last drawing under the standby arrangement in February
1983. Discussions are underway of a possible further standby arrangement for
1983/84.
22.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to *8.4 billion (disbursed only) by December 1981. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.8 billion in 1981. Debt service amounted to $1.2
billion in 1980, $1.3 billion in 1981 and $1.5 billion in 1982 (27%, 31% and
35% respectively, of total exports of goods and services). As a result of
recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to average $1.8
billion annually during 1982-85. Because of the growing burden of debt
service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since
1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government will have to
continue this policy over the next few years while taking special measures to
expand exports.
23.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1368 million in 1978. In 1979-80
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). In 1981 they
are estimated at *1759 million. Major sources of aid were France, Saudi
Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1981,
the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was 7.5%. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 21% in 1976
and declined to 15% in 1977, and 7% in 1981. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares
in debt outstanding and in debt service are projected at about 10 and 11%
respectively.



-7
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
24.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 58 projects, financing
a total of $1,988.5 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,164.5 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits, totalling
$50 million, have been made available for five projects and a Third Window
loan for $25 million has been made for an education project. IFC investments
have amounted to $61.6 million ($42.7 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales).  Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments and notes on the execution of
ongoing IBRD/IDA projects as of September 30, 1982. Overall performance in
project execution is satisfactory, although in some cases, delays in project
implementation have been caused by management problems and budgetary
constraints.
25.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28 percent and 26 percent,
respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16
percent), tourism (9 percent), education (8 percent), roads (6 percent),
energy (4 percent) and urban development (3 percent). The main objectives of
Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen development
institutions and to increase productive capacity, in order to improve the
balance of payments. While these objectives remain, Bank lending now also
focuses on supporting a number of other policy objectives: to contribute to
the reduction of the Treasury deficits; to lower unit costs for the delivery
of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and increase access
by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution.
26.      Since FY75, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in the
productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The Meknes and
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Projects address this objective in the favorable
cereal producing zone. The Loukkos, Middle Atlas, Forestry and Oulmes-Rommani
projects extend support to less favorably endowed regions. Four lines of
credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) have helped provide
credit to farmers, and a fifth project is under preparation.   Increased
export earnings are expected to result from the Bank-supported project for
Vegetable Marketing and Production, as well as from a project currently under
preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal fishing industry. The
scope of future lending is likely to be expanded to include projects aimed at
improving input supply and marketing nationwide.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings have also been the key
objectives of Bank projects in industry, mining and tourism and led to nine
lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(BNDE) for industrial projects and four lines of credit to Cr4dit Immobilier
et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism projects. A project to increase mineral export
earnings and raise the incomes of small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco
was approved by the Board in FY82.



28.      Projects in basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families. A third highway project supports the
Government's road maintenance efforts. A loan for village electrification is
helping bring power to over a hundred small towns and villages, and a third
water supply project is providing access to safe water in small towns and
semi-rural areas. A project aimed at strengthening the Communal
Infrastructure Fund's (FEC) capacity to support local communities is being
prepared.
29.      Five education projects have focused on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, on expanding basic education in the rural
areas and on ensuring a greater orientation in primary schooling towards
practical training. Further lending will be focussed on vocational training
and on primary education.
30.      In order to reduce Morocco's dependence on oil imports, the
Government has made considerable efforts to develop national resources,
notably of gas and oil shale. These efforts are being supported by the Bank
through a gas exploration project and an engineering project aimed at studying
the viability of developing the country's oil shale resources. Additional
projects for further gas exploration, as well as coal and hydropower
development, are being studied.
31.      Morocco's disbursement performance improved in FY82.  Disbursement
shortfalls are, however, still being experienced, particularly for a few
projects in new sectors, due mainly to institutional or project management
problems. These cases are being closely monitored and implementation
schedules have been established specifying critical actions, in agreement with
the Government. In some projects, implementing agencies have been slow in
submitting disbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance for transmittal to
the Bank, but the Government has recently taken effective measures to resolve
this problem. The rate of disbursement has also been affected by the
appreciation of the dollar against other currencies.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Structure of the Transport Sector
32,      Morocco's transport system comprises a network of 26,300 km of paved
roads serving some 400,000 vehicles, a railway of 1760 km connecting most of
the larger cities, sixteen ports, of which six serve international trade,
fourteen airports handling scheduled flights, a national airline with
extensive international connections, and a merchant marine which has expanded
significantly in recent years. Roads are the dominant transport mode,
accounting for about 95 percent of total passenger-km and 60 percent of



- 9 -
freight ton-km. The railway and certain ports have a special role in
exporting phosphate, while the airports and national airline are particularly
geared to promoting tourism.
33.      Over the past ten years investments in transport have accounted for
around 20 percent of total fixed capital formation in the public sector, and
in the economy as a whole. The 1981-85 Plan envisages a budgetary allocation
of about DH 16 billion for the sector over five years, of which DH 3.5 billion
is for roads. Continuing budgetary constraints may, however, result in actual
commitments of only about 65 percent of allocations, as in 1981. First
priority is assigned in the Plan to road rehabilitation and maintenance; next
in importance is improvement of the regional and local network. These
priorities are appropriate and leave limited room for new main road
construction other than what is directly required to support projects in the
productive sectors.
34.      There are about 57,800 km of classified primary, secondary, and
tertiary roads, of which 45 percent are paved. Over the last five years
additions to the network have averaged about 1 percent annually of the
existing paved length and about 0.6 percent of unpaved roads. The density of
the network is generally adequate, as are also the geometric design standards
of the classified roads, but their pavements are increasingly inadequate to
carry present traffic because of high traffic volumes, a relatively high level
of vehicle ownership, and vigorous growth of traffic. The number of road
accidents is high in relation to traffic volume. The Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) is making efforts to improve the reporting of accidents, as a first step
to identifying appropriate preventive measures.
Sector Organization and Institutional Framework
35.      Transport services are operated variously by wholly private, wholly
Government-owned, or mixed-capital enterprises on broadly commercial lines in
a framework of government regulation intended to ensure that individual
clients face uniform, fair rates, fares, and conditions of carriage, and that
traffic should use the lowest cost mode. Responsibility for the transport
system is divided primarily between the Ministry of Public Works ("Ministere
de l'Equipement", MPW), which is in charge of road infrastructure and ports,
and the Ministry of Transport ("Ministere des Transports", MOT). The latter
was established in 1977 and supervises the railway, civil aviation, and
state-owned bus and freigbt forwarding companies; it also regulates private
road transport. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible, through the
local communities, for local roads and urban bus companies. Shipping is under
the Ministry oL Fisheries and the Merchant Marine. The capital investment
plans for these ministries are coordinated by the Planning Ministry.
36.      The MPW's Roads and Traffic Department (RTD) is responsible for the
design, construction and maintenance of the classified road network.
Unclassified roads are administered by the local authorities using provincial
budget funds and, if necessary, technical assistance from the RTD. The RTD's
organization is, in general, appropriate, though there is a need to strengthen
staff in certain functions. The RTD's central divisions have an overall



- 10 -
planning and coordination function, while programming, contract awards and
administration, and supervision of works are substantially delegated to the
field organization, which (after a recent expansion) consists of 35 provincial
offices, grouped in seven regional directorates. There is close contact
between the central divisions and the provincial offices.
37.      Highway Design and Engineering.  Although the engineering and
technical staff of the RTD is generally well-qualified, it is not yet
sufficient numerically. As a result, in the medium-term, design work will
continue to be contracted out to consultants. This situation is expected to
be transitional, as the demand for additional qualified staff in highway
engineering is being addressed by training facilities at the Hassania School
of Public Works and Communications in Casablanca, and by the technician
courses, refresher seminars, and workshops offered within the MPW and
engineering schools. Several domestic consulting firms are now available for
design of medium-sized projects. Designs and feasibility studies for major
roads and bridges are generally prepared by foreign consulting firms, some of
which now have local branches. Highway design standards were prepared in 1978
and are satisfactory. In exceptional cases, such as the Casablanca-Rabat
expressway, special standards are adopted.
38.      Construction.  Construction, improvement, and strengthening of roads
are done through private contractors. Contracts are awarded after competitive
bidding, and the quality of work is generally good. There are a number of
domestic firms qualified to carry out relatively large contracts, and
competition between them is strong; however, given domestic contractor
capacity, some foreign participation would be required in the construction of
new primary and secondary roads under the current Development Plan. The
supervision of construction is carried out by the RTD's regional staff,
assisted by the autonomous soils and materials laboratory (Laboratoire Public
d'Essais et d'Etudes, LPEE), while for major road construction special
supervision offices are established by the RTD. The capacity of the RTD's
provincial offices to carry out contract management needs to be augmented by
reinforcing technical staff.
Road Maintenance
39.      The RTD's provincial offices plan maintenance works on the basis of
instructions and a general maintenance program prepared by headquarters,
following reviews of road maintenance needs annually or every second year.
Road maintenance is generally limited to paved roads; tracks receive attention
only when urgent repairs are needed. Routine maintenance is done by the RTD's
own crews and periodic maintenance through contracts. The provincial offices
undertake minor repairs of the road equipment fleet. Large-scale repairs are
carried out by private workshops, and major overhauls by specialized workshops
in the principal cities. The inability to carry out more repairs at the field
level because of the lack of sufficient facilities results in the sub-optimal
use of equipment. The RTD is addressing this issue with a plan to build and
equip a central workshop, two major regional workshops, and minor workshops in



- 11 -
districts with no facilities (paragraph 59). In its effort to improve road
maintenance, the RTD also plans to set up a permanent training center for road
maintenance technicians. The RTD is undertaking a study (financed by the Bank
under the Third Highway Project) of the organization of road maintenance,
which includes the evaluation of training needs and other preparatory steps to
establish such a center.
40.      Because of the emphasis on new construction in earlier years, and
budgetary constraints, until 1979 funds for road maintenance were sufficient
only for a limited level of maintenance. A large backlog of rehabilitation
and improvement works was created, and insufficient maintenance of secondary
and tertiary roads, in particular, led to near isolation of some rural areas
and uneconomically high transport costs. Since 1980, the Government's
budgetary allocations for maintenance have increased substantially, following
the agreement reached at negotiations of the Third Highway Project on an
overall action plan for routine and periodic maintenance. Budgetary
allocations for maintenance have even exceeded the agreed amounts. Despite
this, the executed maintenance programs could not always reflect the agreed
quantities because of inflation. In general, the RTD has been able to carry
out an acceptable program of maintenance of the network of primary and
secondary roads. As for the tertiary roads, in 1982 they received an
allocation of funds double the figure for 1981. With the continuation of the
program of maintenance, the quality of the rural network will gradually begin
to improve.
Organization of Road Transport Services
41.      Most inter-urban bus and truck services are operated by small private
companies or co-operatives. Buses are licensed as to routes and service
frequencies, and their fares are set by the MOT. Trucks are classified in
three categories: a) trucks below 5.5 tons gross vehicle weight or GVW, b)
own-account vehicles over 5.5 tons GVW, and c) common-carriers over 5.5 tons
GVW. The purchase and operation of small trucks is unregulated, while large
trucks are regulated as to their number, rates, and operating area. Small
trucks are important in meeting transport demand, particularly in rural areas,
and in generating small-scale employment. On the other hand, small trucks
frequently practise overloading, and in their effort to reduce cost per ton,
they often neglect vehicle maintenance, posing a safety hazard. (Enforcement
of vehicle weights and axle-load limits has been constrained by the absence of
weighing equipment, but is being strengthened with financing under the Third
Highway Project of the purchase of portable scales and fixed weigh-bridges.)
In any case, the share of small trucks in the freight market appears to be
disproportionately high (nearly 40 percent of all inter-city ton-km) as a
result of the regulatory system which restricts licenses to large common
carriers. In principle, large common carrier trucks have a significant cost
advantage because of their higher ratio of payload to deadload. The high
market share of small freight transporters therefore implies a significant
cost to the economy. At a rough estimate, a market shift to large common
carriers could save $40-80 million annually.



- 12 -
42.      A second major feature of the system of regulation of freight
transport is that the Office National des Transports (ONT), a parastatal
agency, exercises a monopoly of freight fowarding services. The ONT offers
its customers the advantages of advertised rates, standardized billing
procedures, and guaranteed insurance coverage, as well as common overhead
services to truckers. All operators of large common-carrier trucks are
obliged to be affiliated with the ONT, which charges a commission for its
services. The disadvantages of the system are that it suppresses competition,
provides no incentives to improved performance, and through regulation of
rates keeps profits too low to provide adequately for fleet renewal. Since
many unpaved roads are accessible only to small trucks which are not allowed
access to the ONT terminals, any long-distance haul whose origin is off the
paved network has to be performed entirely by the small trucks, even though a
large-capacity truck may be half as costly for the line haul.
43.      The Government is eager to improve the distribution of traffic, but
opinions are divided as to whether the solution lies in tightening
restrictions on the small trucks or easing restrictions on the large ones. To
assist the Government in resolving this issue, the proposed project includes a
survey of the freight market, and a review of trucking organization, licensing
and regulation (paragraph 62).
Major Policy Issues
44.      The principal transport policy issues are: i) the need for
organizational and managerial changes to improve the productivity of existing
facilities and the financial performance of the public transport agencies, and
ii) the need to ensure greater role for cost-related prices to optimize
traffic and investment allocation. The overall objective in addressing these
issues is to meet growth in demand with a minimum of new infrastructure.
Related issues are the need to improve coordination, cost accounting, planning
within and between transport modes, and the consistent application of
quantified criteria to the arbitrage process across modes and sectors. In the
context of the need for each sector ministry to develop its internal planning
capability, the recent initiative of the MPW to set up a studies and planning
department is particularly welcome. The MOT, which has jurisdiction over both
road and rail transport services, needs to expand its capacity for studying
transport corridors where different modes of transport compete, refine its
analysis of the least-cost means of transport for different transport
categories, and propose measures to encourage traffic to take the least-cost
mode wherever it is not at present doing so.
45.      In the roads sub-sector, the major issues are the need to improve
productivity through better traffic allocation in the trucking market
(paragraphs 41 and 42) and to continue the recent increased emphasis on
maintenance (paragraph 40). The principal problem of the railway is its large
operating deficit, due to low tariffs. It is expected that a study of railway
operating costs carried out for the MOT under the Third Highway Project would
provide a basis for aligning tariffs more closely with costs. A further issue
is posed by the size and details of the current railway investment plan. The



- 13 -
Bank's recent review indicates that this plan could be substantially reduced,
and several projects of doubtful economic viability scaled down or postponed.
The Government is taking measures to address this issue, following the
dialogue with the Bank. As regards the ports subsector, Moroccan ports remain
inefficient despite massive capital investments. There are problems of
congestion and limited storage capacity at Casablanca, the country's principal
port, and poor overall cargo handling performance. The Government recognizes
the need to address these issues, and is now preparing a port project for
possible Bank financing. In shipping, the Government's generous incentives
have helped increase the tonnage of the Moroccan merchant marine, but at the
cost of apparent overcapacity and low returns. The Government is currently
reviewing these incentives, which are expected to be more selective in future.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
46.      Through three previous highway projects, the Bank has financed the
construction or improvement of main roads, encouraged the allocation of
resources to high-return projects, contributed to heightened emphasis on road
maintenance and rehabilitation, and helped strengthen the agencies responsible
for road construction, maintenance, and transport coordination. The First
Highway Project (Ln. 642-MOR/Cr. 167-MOR) for t14.6 million, signed in
November 1969, included construction of one new primary road, a program of
localized improvements on selected primary roads, and the purchase of
maintenance equipment and spare parts. The project was completed on time with
only minor cost overruns, and was marked by the good performance of local
contractors and the efficient construction supervision undertaken by the MPW
(see Project Performance Audit Report No. 1565 of April 1977).
47.      The Second Highway Project (Ln. 955-MOR, signed in January 1974) for
$29 million followed from a transport survey carried out under the First
Highway Project, and included: a) construction of part of the Casablanca-Rabat
expressway; b) a further program of localized road improvements throughout
Morocco; c) renewal and expansion of maintenance equipment; d) traffic studies
for Casablanca and Rabat; and, e) technical assistance for setting up a
transportation planning office. The loan was closed in June 1980, three years
later than planned at appraisal. The delay was due principally to a problem
with the contractor for the expressway. However, the quality of work was
good, local contractors were competent, cost accounting methods for road
maintenance were introduced, and the traffic and financial surveys carried out
by the technical assistance team were valuable in laying the groundwork for
MOT's planning and policy-making function.
48.      The Third Highway Project (Ln. 1830-MOR, signed in May 1980)
emphasizes road maintenance and rehabilitation. The loan for $62 million
finances a portion of the RTD's program of resurfacing and pavement
strengthening over 3-1/2 years, purchase of road maintenance and pavement
evaluation equipment, and a study of the organization of road maintenance.
These components are the responsibility of the MPW. The project also
includes, as the responsibility of the MOT, a set of studies into the pricing
and organization of transport services, and the purchase of vehicle weighing
scales to aid in the enforcement of weight limits. After a slow start, civil



- 14
works are now progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements have lagged behind
appraisal estimates as a result of slow implementation, administrative
bottlenecks and appreciation of the dollar, but have improved following recent
Government measures to streamline procedures, intensify follow-up, and
reallocate loan proceeds to finance further pavement strengthening, some
additional road maintenance equipment, vehicles for transporting maintenance
crews, and studies that have helped prepare the Fourth Highway Project. The
MOT components are about 18 months behind schedule as a result of delays in
recruiting consultants for the study, and in procurement of the weighing
scales. The project as a whole is expected to be completed by the Closing
Date (June 30, 1984).
49.      The Bank's three highways projects have focused on primary and
secondary roads in view of the greater traffic carried by them. In addition,
a further 3,060 km of roads have been or will be constructed or improved under
eleven agricultural projects since 1974, for a combined loan amount
of $67 million. These road components range from widening and resurfacing
sections of classified roads to construction of unpaved farm access roads in
support of irrigation and other agricultural development investments. The
Bank's involvement has promoted a closer and more consistent cooperation
between the Ministry of Agriculture and the MPW in determining design
standards and arrangements for maintenance of these roads.
Bank Role in Transport
50.      The Bank's project and economic work focuses on supporting and
promoting policies that would help address the critical sector issues
(paragraphs 44 and 45). Future Bank lending in the transport sector will
support priority agricultural and industrial production, maximize
opportunities for earning or saving foreign exchange (as by improving the
efficiency of handling imports and exports through the proposed Casablanca
Port Project), and help expand access to previously neglected groups and
regions, especially in rural areas, thereby contributing to increased job
opportunities and higher incomes for the poorer sections of society.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
51.      The proposed project arises from previous Bank-financed highway
projects. It was prepared by the RTD in consultation with Bank missions and
appraised in two stages, in June and October 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington in February 1983.   Mr. H. Belkoura of the Prime Minister's Office
led the Moroccan delegation. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4266 MOR, dated
March 2, 1983) is being distributed separately, special conditions of the loan
are summarized in Annex III, and map No. 16783R (attached) displays the
location of project activities.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
52.      The objectives of the project are to lower transport costs throughout
the country, help reduce regional income disparities, strengthen institutions
responsible for road maintenance and improvement, and contribute to raising
the productivity of road transport services. These objectives are in
conformity with the Government's priorities for roads as defined in the
1981-85 Development Plan. The Project consists of; a) road works, comprising
i) continuation of the RTD's program of pavement strengthening and improvement
on about 470 km of primary and secondary roads, ii) reconstruction of fourteen
bridges with reduced load-carrying capacity, iii) a pilot program of
improvement of about 300 km of provincial roads, iv) completion of the
remaining 29 km of the Casablanca-Rabat expressway; b) continuation of the
RTD's program of routine and periodic maintenance of the network of paved
roads, and ad hoc maintenance of unpaved roads and tracks, construction and
equipping of a central workshop and two regional workshops for road
maintenance equipment, and acquisition of additional maintenance equipment and
renewal of the existing equipment fleet; c) a detailed engineering and
economic study of provincial roads, to prepare a program which could be
financed under a possible Fifth Highway Project; d) a study of the freight
transportation market and regulatory system; e) technical assistance to i) the
MPW's Planning and Studies Department, and ii) the RTD's Studies, Management
Systems, and Maintenance Divisions.
53.      Pavement Strengthening and Improvement.  This component represents
continuation of a program started under the Third Highway Project (paragraph
48). The major component of the works would be the application of different
types of overlays (the choice depending on the level of traffic), to
strengthen existing asphalt pavements. In addition, most road sections
require ancillary works such as widening, restoring shoulders, repairing and
improving drainage facilities. The specific road sections have been selected
from a list of 800 km included in the 1981-85 Development Plan, on the basis
of a technical and economic study financed under the Third Highway Project.
The lowest economic rate of return for the road sections chosen is 35 percent.
54.      Reconstruction of Bridges.  Following a survey in 1980 by the LPEE
(paragraph 38) consultants studied twenty-one bridges in detail, selected on
the basis of traffic volumes and the importance of the road they served, and
concluded that works on fifteen would be justified, fourteen of which are
included in the project. These bridges present a diversity of spans, are
generally old, not designed for modern, heavy traffic, and their load-carrying
capacity has been reduced by the settling of foundations and, in some cases,
inadequate maintenance. Often, the bridge reconstruction is associated with a
road realignment to select a more suitable crossing and permit a reduction in
road-length. The Government will send the Bank, for review and comment, on or
before October 31 of each year, the bidding documents for the bridges to be
reconstructed during the following project year (Loan Agreement, Section
3.05(c)). Of the 14 bridges, 13 have an economic rate of return over 40
percent, and one of 23 percent.



- 16 -
55.      Pilot Program of Provincial Road Improvements.  A study in 1976
identified about 8,000 km of provincial roads whose construction or upgrading
would promote the economic and social development of the various regions. Of
these roads, 29, for a length of about 900 km, were subsequently studied in
detail, with traffic counts and the collection of data from the provincial
offices of the Ministry of Agriculture on the present cultivated area in the
zone of influence of each road, cropping patterns, and yields. Shortage of
reliable data and methodological difficulties leave uncertainty as to the
amount of traffic that would be generated by road improvement, and the
farmers' response to increased mobility. However, even if the benefits to
non-agricultural generated traffic are excluded, and with pessimistic
assumptions as to farmers' responses, 11 of these roads have economic rates of
return above 12 percent.
56.      Four roads totaling 172 km have been fully appraised and will be
upgraded or constructed in a first tranche. Additional road segments may
subsequently be included, up to a total cost of DH 175 million (including
contingencies), provided such roads meet the criterion of a minimum economic
rate of return of 12 percent, justified by savings to existing traffic alone,
or, where the inclusion of agricultural benefits is essential to show a
satisfactory rate of return, on the basis of evidence of agricultural
development potential in the road's zone of influence. The Government will
send the Bank for review and comment the economic evaluation according to the
agreed guidelines, as well as the detailed engineering and bidding documents
for the provincial roads included in the project, by October 31 each year
preceding the year of proposed construction (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(c)).
57.      Completion of the Casablanca-Rabat Expressway.  This component will
finance the completion of the remaining 29 km of the four-lane expressway,
from Oued Cherrat to Rabat.  This stretch is at present covered by a two-lane
highway (RP 36) and a lower standard road, RP 1, which together cannot serve
the heavy traffic in the corridor. The Government began construction of the
expressway from the Casablanca end in the early 1970s, and the Second Highway
Project financed the construction of a 33 km two-lane section (paragraph 47).
The proposed work will comprise two sections: the first of 15.5 km consisting
of two new two-lane carriageways from Oued Cherrat, including a major bridge
over the Oued Yqem and the Skhirat interchange, the second of 13.5 km
consisting of strengthening the existing RP 36 for traffic in one direction,
and adding another two-lane carriageway including an interchange at Temara.
The feasibility study for the expressway was prepared in 1971 under the First
Highway Project and has since been updated by consultants. The detailed
engineering was financed under the Second Highway Project. The design
standards are satisfactory.
58.      The completion of the expressway will save travelers' time by
relieving the present heavy congestion which is a daily feature of the RP 36.
It will also reduce the unusually high accident rate on this road, which is
double that on the adjoining expressway. Traffic on the road is expected to
continue growing at 5 to 7 percent annually, aggravating the congestion and



- 17 -
raising the accident toll. By 1986, the earliest year the expressway could be
completed all the way to Rabat, traffic on RP 36 is expected to reach 15,400
vehicles per day. The expansion of rail services as a result of the on-going
doubling of the track between Casablanca and Rabat will not significantly
alleviate the congestion, as the number of road vehicles will decline by less
than a normal year's growth in traffic. The economic rate of return of the
expressway section (taking into account the estimated growth in rail traffic)
will be 32 percent; its economic justification is not sensitive to reasonable
margins of error in the estimates of construction cost or traffic volumes, or
to sharply lower valuations of time saved.
59.      Road Maintenance.  The project will continue the RTD's program (being
implemented under the Third Highway Project) of routine maintenance through
force account and periodic maintenance by contract of the paved network, as
well as ad hoc maintenance of unpaved roads and tracks and renewal of the
maintenance equipment. Periodic maintenance of paved roads includes surface
dressings, and where warranted by traffic, asphaltic concrete overlays. The
RTD's established frequencies of periodic maintenance are satisfactory. To
optimize use of road maintenance equipment and reduce down-time for major
repairs, the RTD plans to set up a central equipment workshop in Casablanca
where major overhauls will be done on a carefully planned rotation basis, two
regional workshops in Fes and Marrakech to handle intermediate repairs, and
minor workshops at the district level.  The proposed loan will finance the
foreign exchange cost of construction and equipment of the central and
regional workshops. It will also finance the purchase of an additional
minimal amount of equipment needed to meet maintenance needs during the
project years. It will be procured in two lots, in 1983 and 1984.
60.      As under the Third Highway Project, the Government will send to the
Bank, for review and comments before finalization, its annual programs of
civil works and road maintenance under the project consistent with the action
plan agreed with the Bank, by September 30 of each preceding year (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05(b)).
61.      Provincial Roads Study, Second Phase.  The feasibility study on
provincial roads carried out in preparation of the proposed project broke new
ground in the attention paid to agricultural production as the main
justification for low-standard roads in rural areas (paragraph 55). However,
there is, as yet, little reliable data on key aspects such as the size of the
zone of influence, the extent of yield increases, and the interaction of road
and agricultural investments. The proposed loan will therefore finance a
further study (60 man-months) to design data collection procedures and refine
the methods for forecasting changes in farming practices. This study will
also prepare a program of provincial road improvements for possible financing
by the Bank under a Fifth Highway Project.



- l8 -
62.      Freight Market Survey and Review of Regulatory System.  To address
the issue of allocation in freight transport (paragraphs 41 and 42) the MOT's
Planning Department in collaboration with the RTD intends to hire consultants
to carry out a users' survey. The survey will identify the requirements and
preferences of different market segments with regard to cost, speed,
reliability and flexibility, assess the strengths and weaknesses of the
regulated and unregulated trucking sectors and the railway in meeting user
needs, review the system of licensing and operating regulations and recommend
possible changes in this system. The study will require about 45 man-months
of consultant time. The MOT will provide survey personnel. Terms of
reference for the study have been finalized.  In order to ensure prompt
implementation of the study, the issue of the request for proposals to
consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01).  This step is expected to be completed by June 30,
1983. The Government will immplement those of the study's recommendations
upon which it reaches agreement with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03 (d)). The consultants will commence the study by January 31, 1984 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)).
63.      Technical Assistance to MPW's Planning and Studies Department.  The
MPW's technical competence is high. However, in view of the importance of
widening the application of consistent and objective economic criteria to
investment decision-making (paragraph 44),the Minister decided early in 1982
to strengthen his central advisory staff responsible for providing guidance on
economic methodology and exercising quality control over the planning studies
prepared by the RTD, and the departments which oversee dams and ports. This
central staff will also carry out economic studies that cannot conveniently be
delegated to one or other of the technical departments, on such subjects as
port/road interface, or certain energy issues. The proposed loan will finance
the services of a transport economist and a water resources economist, each
for two years, to provide the personnel of the MPW's Planning and Studies
Department (who are mostly engineers) with on-the-job training in economic
planning.
64.      Technical Assistance to RTD's Studies, Management Systems, and
Maintenance Divisions. The project will provide the services of three experts
for two years to strengthen the RTD's Planning and Economic Studies Section of
the Studies Division, the recently created Management Systems Division, and
the Maintenance Division. These experts would help reduce the RTD's
dependence on external consultants for the economic analysis of roads, help
modernize management techniques, improve the collection of statistical
information on roads, streamline the flow of technical and financial data from
the field offices to headquarters, and follow up on the implementation of the
on-going maintenance study (paragraph 39 above).
Cost Estimates and Financing
65.      The costs for the various items of civil works have been estimated by
consultants, except for the reconstruction of bridges, where they are the
estimates of the RTD's district offices. The cost of the road maintenance
equipment is based on the cost of similar equipment in the Third Highway
Project. The RTD estimated the cost of the workshop equipment. Technical



- 19 -
assistance under the project totals 225 man-months, of which 105 will be
provided by consulting firms at an average cost of $11,000 per man-month, and
another 120 by individual foreign engineering consultants at an average cost
of $7,500 per man-month. These costs for consultants include international
travel and subsistence. The technical assistance proposed (totally $2.6
million, excluding contingencies) includes about $545,000 of reimbursable
items such as local travel, cost and operation of vehicles, other equipment,
and consumable materials. Physical contingencies have been estimated as
follows: i) 5 percent for the equipment, to allow for slight variations in
technical specifications, ii) 15 percent for the reconstruction of bridges,
and iii) 7 1/2 percent for the Casablanca-Rabat expressway. (The pavement
strengthening and provincial roads programs are defined more broadly as
programs, and therefore do not require any separate physical contingency
allowance). Price contingencies have been estimated on the basis of local
inflation rates of 11, 9, and 7.5 percent, in 1983, 84, and subsequent years
respectively, and foreign inflation rates of 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in
1984, 7 percent in 1985, and 6 percent in subsequent years.
66.      The total capital cost of the project is estimated at $131.4 million,
of which the foreign exchange cost is $71.7 million. The total cost of
periodic maintenance under the project is estimated at $105.7 million, of
which the foreign cost is $57.7 million. The total cost of the routine
maintenance in the project period is estimated at $49.6 million, of which the
foreign cost is $17.1 million. The proposed Bank loan of $85 million would
finance 100 percent of the foreign cost of the capital items, $12.7 million
(or 22 percent) of the foreign cost of the periodic maintenance, and includes
the capitalized front-end fee of $0.6 million. The Government would finance
the local costs of the capital items ($59.7 million) and the balance of the
maintenance costs ($142.6 million).
Project Implementation
67.      Except for the freight market study, which is the responsibility of
the MOT in collaboration with the RTD, and the technical assistance to the
MPW's Planning and Studies Department, the RTD will be the executing agency
for all project components. The RTD will therefore supervise all civil works
under the project. The project is expected to be physically completed in
about 3-1/2 years, by December 31, 1986, but a margin of a further 12 months
is considered useful to allow for possible implementation capacity constraints
of domestic contractors, who will carry out most of the civil works. In view
of the importance of monitoring the pace of deterioration of newly
strengthened roads in relation to traffic and technical parameters, as well as
the impact of construction of provincial roads on traffic and agricultural
development, the Government will carry out: i) a program of automatic traffic
counts and measurements of pavement roughness on road sections strengthened
under the project, ii) two traffic counts annually of a week each, at
six-monthly intervals, on the provincial roads constructed or improved under
the project, iii) a program of monitoring, in consultation with provincial
agricultural authorities, of the agricultural development after road
construction, including the type, amount, and timing of complementary
agricultural investments. The Government will send semi-annual reports to the
Bank showing the information indicated above.



- 20 -
Procurement
68.      Contracts whose expected cost exceeds the equivalent of $2 million in
the case of road works, $100,000 for road maintenance equipment, and $50,000
for workshop equipment will be awarded after international competitive bidding
according to the Bank's guidelines for procurement. All other contracts for
civil works and equipment will be awarded under local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank and open to foreign firms. Such procedures
are justified by the availability of local representatives of the major
equipment manufacturers, and the established competence and competitiveness of
domestic contractors. Bidders for the reconstruction of bridges and the
Casablanca-Rabat expressway will have to be prequalified. Bitumen will be
procured from the public agency SEBLIMA, which, following its standard
procedures, purchases in bulk and provides the bitumen direct to contractors
under a contract with the RTD. This is an economic and efficient system of
procurement, approved by the Bank for the Third Highway Project. However, to
streamline disbursements, the Government will sign discrete contracts for
bitumen in quantities required by civil works contracts to be financed by the
Bank. Prior review of contracts will be required where the contract cost
exceeds the equivalent of $0.5 million for bridge reconstruction, $2.0 million
for all other civil works, and $0.25 million for equipment. Consultants for
the studies and technical assistance proposed under the project will be
recruited according to procedures in conformity with the Bank's guidelines.
Accounting and Auditing
69.      In June 1982 the Government and the Bank agreed that for easy
reference and monitoring of counterpart funds each Bank-financed project
component would be identified by a line in the investment budget. The
Government has confirmed the application of this procedure to the proposed
project. The accounting systems of the MPW and the MOT, and the related
internal and external control procedures are satisfactory for the purposes of
the proposed project. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared on
standardized forms and submitted to the Bank. Audits will be carried out by
the Ministry of Finance, which has both competent staff and appropriate
independence. The auditors' certification and report will be received in the
Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year; the first
certification and report will cover 1983.
Disbursements
70.      The program of periodic maintenance under the project will comprise
numerous small road surfacing contracts, and disbursements against such
contracts are likely to pose problems of administrative complexity and delay.
In order to streamline and expedite disbursements, the Bank has therefore
agreed with the Government to disburse from the loan only against the capital
items in the project, at a uniform rate of 64 percent of total expenditures.
Since the average foreign cost of the capital items is about 55 percent, this
procedure will permit financing by the Bank of $12.7 million of the foreign
cost of periodic maintenance. Disbursements are expected to begin by



- 21 -
October 1983, and to be completed by December 31, 1988.
Environmental Impact
71.      The civil works under the proposed project will not adversely affect
the environment. Improvements on provincial roads and better maintenance will
increase the reliability of access to markets, schools, and medical
facilities, and thus improve the rural environment.
Project Benefits and Risks
72.      The main benefit of the project will be the reduction of transport
costs (vehicle operating costs) for those using the roads and bridges
constructed, improved, or maintained under the project. The overall economic
rate of return on those of the capital items on which a rate of return can be
calculated (87 percent of the total) is over 40 percent. While a rate of
return calculation is not feasible for the maintenance items, the frequency of
operations represents the minimum consistent with preserving the road
network. The economic impact of the survey of the freight market and review
of trucking regulations will flow from the study's success in contributing to
improvements in transport policies. It is estimated that appropriate changes
in the regulatory system and an improvement in the level of service of large
common-carrier trucks could lead to a shift in freight traffic, generating
transport cost savings of as much as $40-80 million annually. The technical
assistance proposed to the MPW and the RTD continues the long-term process of
institutional strengthening already begun by the Bank.
73.      There is a risk that budgetary constraints might prevent the
Government from providing financing on time for its share of the project's
costs. In such an event, expected benefits would be postponed, but cutbacks
for certain components would not harm the economic justification of the
remaining works. This risk has been reduced by the Government's commitment to
make all required funding available for the project, thus respecting its
stated priority for projects with foreign financing. A second type of risk is
posed by the possibility of delays in the start-up and implementation of the
freight market study. This risk has been minimized by arranging for early
finalization of the terms of reference for the study and by requiring issue of
the request for proposals from consultants before loan effectiveness.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.



- 22 -
75.      Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
76.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 4, 1983
Washington DC



-23-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
HOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATQRS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEID AVEGZS
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIIIATE)
TOTAL             446.6/c                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      202.2 /c                                MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    220.0        340.0      900.0                 1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONISUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       163.2        214.0      302.3                  713.5                    1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TROUSANDS) 11626.0        14993.0   20182.0
URBAN POPU1LATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3           34.6      40.6                   47.3                      65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          35.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            81.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         26.0         33.6       43.8                   35.8                      35.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       61.1         75.0       96.6                  420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.8         47.6       46.1                   44.3                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.6         48.3       50.7                   52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6         4.2        3.2                    3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.5       3.0                    2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                 3.7          4.2       4.6                    4.6                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        51.8         47.3      44.9                   41.2                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.4         17.2       12.7                  12.2                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.5        3.2                   2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        25.1       78.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIRD WOMEN)    ..             1.0       5.4/d
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            99.0         98.0       88.0                  100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    100.8        103.0      106.5/e                108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            64.6         66.5       68.3/e                 71.9                      66.0
OF WRICH AN1LMAL AND PULSE        13.8         12.6       13.5/c                 18.0                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        36.8         26.6      15.5                   15.1                       5.6
HEALTH
LIFE  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.7           51.7      56.5                   56.9                      64.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 160.5        136.3     107.2                  104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               30.6         51.0       55.0/d                 59.1                      65.6
URBAN                               58.7         92.0      100.0/d                 83.1                      78.9
RURAL                                19.0         28.0      25.0/d                 39.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        29.0         ..                     ..                      59.3
URBAN                                 ..          75.0        ..                     ..                      75.3
RURAL                                  ..         4.0         ..                     ..                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            9406.1      12814.5   11037.4/d                4015.5                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..      2742.2    1826.3/c                1802.2                    1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              625.6        664.3      773.6/e                641.7                     477.4
URBAN                                 ..        454.7      623.4/c                538.3                     679.8
RURAL                                 ..       5821.4    3089.6/e                2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         15.5       17.9/e                25.5                      27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.8          5.5
URBAN                                4.3          4.9
RURAL                                 5.1          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.2           2.4
URBAN                                 2.1          2.1
RURAL                                 2.3          2.6        ..                     ..                        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..         68.4       65.0/e
RURAL                                  ..          ..



- 24 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEI4GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         52.0      75.0                  88.7                     104.3
MALE                  67.0        67.0       93.0                 104.5                    106.4
FEMALE                27.0        36.0       56.0                  72.0                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         13.0      22.0                  39.7                     41.3
MALE                   7.0        18.0       27.0                  49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                 2.0         7.0       17.0                  29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  30.2           2.3        2.8                  10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHFR RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.4         34.3      40.3                  34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                           6.3         20.4      21.0/f                23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.8        21.4       28.0                  43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.7         14.8      19.6/d                17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         45.8         62.4     107.5                 131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4         11.6      38.4                  44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.1         16.2      11.8                  31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..        2.0le                 1.7                     2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3388.7       3945.2    5294.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   10.0         14.2      15.8                  10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              62.0         57.0      52.0                  42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0         17.0      21.0                  27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.1         26.3      26.2                  26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  52.1        45.2       44.2                  46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                5.9          7.5       8.3                    5.6                    16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         2.0        1.9                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
RURAL                                 ..          ..     219.0/i
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/g        20.0/g
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3_/        49.0_/       -
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0_/         4.0/o_
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/g        12.0_/g
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0        157.0     389.0                 279,2
RURAL                              66.0        101.0     238.0                 178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     242.0                 403.6                    518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     257.0                 285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              51.0         38.0      28.0                   22.1
RURAL                              49.0         45.0      45.0                   30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1976; /e 1977; /f 1975; /g Consumption expenditures of households.
May, 1982



- 25 -                                                        ANNEX I
~~ 90 ~~ ~~                                        Page 3 of 6
Htoet   Althee0  Ottu   t  dvo.  too. a.tt   o-aiiy jottd the %0eg                                          I.11tttO. ttr lto .. Lt ab.oid100 II o b.ota.0 th., ty tap  -t he Lnot-
ato it    owaah.ba  haoto  . o  lb. lent at *tdmdtaot tot itltto             ted  -ooate  -"  by ttgftt...t  -oetrfntos  ti.        ti hs dat..  Th. totc.s
thi...atI t Id  ea.tftM   raoo  MtOd.A.  totinote tt.a". sOA  thnnoi..tef  l. .0200 tiftfeao                              be 000    -11-? ao
Th.  gae...mcator   i  ti.  ceo  Od                atq fod  at the a.*J-c  ceeafy art (27 a  -oatr  s-ow  rth ennao    thl3r   -.afa. taI.-  oh-  the ontry S-oo
Of th   "J.tloo    atfy (otoaplofy           t2   to         iltpfoe ft nbld~ alfp ro`fop  Mba. '0114db   Oas.  ot"m .Of,it.  Ad Ktddic tOrn" L. otOaa  hodoea of -rroopor
seloity   f o. oonnrco  t  a sro   h"  d..a far that t'aditot.  Stat  th.  Iotas f cr-rfta   ae..  th   fitt                      dtcaodo I0 oh. tra bial.lty of I-t
Mn  L. to   -ifof-. naco   tt is do-af.et   it  eaf  a,.r.. of o-  indicator lr                                 Thr.-o-.a..e  -rrocoo..oy  cot1 II tocrota,t.  lho  -oi  of
T-1a  - boat1 eaf-an   o-.  awtt    ta  ace  oat ii1ad ra-.; 1979 IItt.                                ofe. 'at remIt thid"t hy cor  epoto  n o   of   lioatfl hate
A              ttkitoat   Utestt   of aroleo    r..oa   tepaert o.. fl  _ofeniya lobi  in polit tot pf t-ot   oooe  odoecOt    hanpitot .00f
or oe   ,ponoon. rrho  roa  titatt Aorta-  or to 1to  fattoo; t979 data.                     tablit-toocatr.   faiti    f   -atbltnh-nt  ya-e-niry 0...0t0
by at Iao ..   re..  phyttto. foei-     htnnP-ooliag Proit   paiiyc to
GW%P it107CA112 (12S   - G0P Por ..Pte. foo-tfte   as tra-ee  eaftr ptto... cI. -                        diet core no  fla  ttIoddit k. tota  hd.icytai, hofrr. toL-Ita hoeltk
bgoo    y tan   -ononlo  rt hod a, Woritlad L.       ientl   (197S-O   bait); 1940,               and roicat ta.storn- .0..rttrcyoeiff  hy a phyattoto  (bet hi 
19iS. oat 19dd data.                                                                                     ttUti aootttaot  roo. tidefo, otol rhich ote   t-.                ttt   on
dOti. Ott pl-lott  . tIthed  .an. of todioi taciltttira.  foI.             atto
0001901 teOOtfOoTIOO OttCOuld -OoooOt ono.~ttorof oortalatrroy(ooai                   tttl paroo.e orbi  horritoo  toclatP.,"-.yinotpail-raral hoftitie
cot Ioalfa   psrrln..  ttorot ga  cod hydra-,  .olor d 0a-thof.1'b-                           ttfath-opit.lo.  lc 1-          0 tot-l haptiUlo  oat Otict .od    trty
tricityl  i. otiotano If ..ai n.ooarpat ..pit.; iOta  1970  . ot  1979                                 OtItI.  Spoooto    opoi  et   o.ddd  ny   te   rti
ff0- ..optitit. di-ottd by th.  Icto   f hbOt-
POPOUOATIOO tMO VITA.L STATZTIfCS
ot,    Prlt.on. Kit-Yan  Ith-d.)to   -            It  f Joly it 19ht. 1972, and 1940                 tOili
UlOhoPooaOo    lOrcto   oti       et               f othoa  -0 totct poPoItOidd,t                      I      :hooohai     int te of    PI00   ntdot ttottoelvo                     ttr
di uaat  t tintto   of trtt   Orate .07 effoo  onef-titLty of tote                             IIt thet  rossa.   A lortor or tottr  -Y or07 not bn t-itodtd it
aentaonunrita  194, 1975. ott 1900 duo..                                                      i  ttoobttd fo n .tctotoc   popoe
p                                   Orof~~~~~ectien     b   S.anr   -tar  tooaa   rts,  -vraa- odf ti... brety  aae,-                 dtocoot.,                 piart-a..
Its lifeoocoof  at himt  in-ftoae  with co-tryt. P.r cerit  Ldom                               Aroo., to tEctttIt, (ner-antf dt            LOt  -toal  oa. ao  toI -
lore. an  (ase   if  rooontno   or            e At 0  77.2pYf.-   Ito Po.-                        CMo.ttto  to-Liat.%rt  tloot-ioIlp  to  L,irto   Oo- -f  0. Plrlot.tOI
.,.rLfr  ertit   rot  t.1  toa   thrinL0. ttl oL.    oflo   d.tiit  in                     of   o Illotha . ad tofal fo-iitrfo  n-p-tloly.
fertil"yaOOtt  on  trt.-oI Oat ren  fIRtly piatont   Oeffoc5t..
tehI   aee-,      Ot  aciaot of Ifie               Ie oaisattot  of  a-tltoy                 tOLICATICS
ttttoar  roalatn  -Ita  tatonE.pryolotto  tier. i. on gO-ho niece                            Prist ahnal - tot.l. aio  II4  mL.-I  - Grt.. co-al  -le  and fatal.
rIta bfrot ro-  fa nool to chi doa-    r_a1olate00ataaaaMorleo   of aft oco. 00 Oh. titorY   000 aI                                                          at Iooa f  -opaorffa
etr    ooo T. mO   ia .?hLee  oLy ottr   etilltyr teteln -        to                       prieny scal-hIr         plotna   orol   incloee otitldret stat h-i
terpi- LnI 0.1o  ai  to reodroarton  rate  e,o .cch aS-raiot                                     y.sre hbt odjotd for diffor.t. Lr-atht of pritay            toto;for
to . ti Y_o  2Ut00 st th  rota If doola  of f-rtiltryratItoctytote-                             S-.A.ota    erhoo   -  otl    t  cot fatalo  - Coapotto ao abort  -ecooY
OU    tatoo   rouolOi. mac-Od - Th. Y-o             h- a .:.atinnory ropolattot.                 prorta.taere.  toOloal.occoi-           -h        atot-tirtetnnfroti
.ia   etIl he reta.tcalyof1to7   Al.r of oc.; orr                                                                                                            .......nrotfacelrt
tar So.  0. - ~It-y-a   Pooloo    Ia aoar   toiloate   1120 h- -tra   o                   f        Voattoalt .t.ltor II_,              toooooo a  __ttt_na    iiatttot...
tota   Ict0  1L01, 1072 oct 1979 to to.                                                           irol.ta  tatati..lototla.    r hec Proora-  htto  opetoto  todePanI-
Per ..0k.                           Z; tocltri  9 .d rtt   Ie char  for ooiotort  at                .wtly  rt  dtOfO-t-  cf etca -r  t                -ttoL_o
oniy; 1940. ltffi    TI  t Onta.                                                                Pcfltaoartt  -Olsot                   t  oor  o       T Iot1  -td-ot  onrolot i
Porlanot  sa  trottre  pofonL-     - Childre   i-li-1  ie..ret.  -kntit-ote  115-             Pri-rY an  or-ottar  It-1  t~iotta          y  -7 Ittra  ofL.aoet  tie
icton1945, 1(70, sod lO   .tet.                                                                  Adot  litt-ra    rota- 1:I ar.atl - Li..ltn.t  otolta  (.labIa to  ead -A  -t.)
P:plota   Gro    ae  .rtflOt    OAlla Lrooth cott  of  -oto  sIt-                                      AIf eno g   or -a1o d01I olrttcat IS pece and .-tI.
7000rortlatao  fr lSt-l .1  00-i.dOt  1970-to.
Porlain  Coth ttarooott- obs  -.ttal ar-rth rt.te   of ort.. PoP-                     C2050UITCOO
ropolattoo; lOOt. 1070. tnt 1905 Oat..                                    etIdoer   Le.toL...  .         '
Cd.0th ktot  (oar otho-d) - Atooa  i Onbsh          M p.r tth--d t    If Kin-year              ttoirceoer  lJtt:oot ool o                            .     i    -ype   of hotae  orrot
C,pai,t.o.; 1900. 1970. .od 1990 taeUrsoeaottrl   ulcprtOdt   itooOiO    nltein
tity rated   toucy fios-ytor. orart  ondino  It 100., 170,at 19M.                                  oa   o ortalthtiloetto.
Staic lootc Rd       coert.., .Ad-tI(haoet  -   -tao  o.o   f accertcre                             CVI-tottor. 100   Ihaaet ....        ittd         TV rta 0-r. foo b-OOr-t  to
ohit-ctrldevilt..  ...e  noplon, of tattoc     foolly Pte.ete  Protai.                     genora  pri.ri  par lhotosi  ttclOlo;  tttOt   Idltort  Crotee
PItnilo FOam; -1.0cc lOoft,tO   f earned enan P. Ior ento   of  -ried                  it  -onrit d to yatte  dit.   rttotof aT Veroattertt
oi  trried eao   In eoo  on, 9r-.                                                                 Ooltio  ofLol           toe   otatnopaa.tttn   .0PrOiO
7LOW O rAoiMiIIMt  o  dOy  if  it Atar   at   ..e foo  toeI                                                                                                          0
lede of  ood  ro ionla  -a  Canto  (1190971-120) - latdt of Per  toyOt  aen-I                 Cinano Oao l crcd-t  Znt UPtIta  Por ioo-    a..t ottoce.                      f
P,     I..Oo   of alt land oo. tioa    FradbIrtie   -Ilo.".at  o  f- 0.0 Oa                          itat  04   no   the Jroo.  nlta    itdotot  drio-loatc
iso   ataa  yearIhate    Coetci. oe  ProI..y Soeta  (e... ecaosWn  soblo  -atte
-1araoto4i)   Ottnooot. pr-dotton nO t.-h .-try L.te . daa  00                             0.0101 7000
notona  avree pdoarPrice s.i,ht; 1961-45. 1970,. a  1900 dato..Total Lbhr Iorce lthaoadelB  - Uca.-Id-tly attic   OOr.o.1000410
atoptotrirt  o I    ontfodd  aPvlisa   -1oiisl.o to oteoty pot oapLta                           Ino7in    Saootaofalao.   D.fitn   t   oOt   aot e    r
eoot,othoboge  in etnot.  wtt  tyPLitt  .ecIot  eol-lI fed. tot.Ftislstel -   1a  Lehor forte .o P.--.*.co   If toa ...                                               o I    oron t .
.oetca    od 10 1d oct proaio  end I-n   in dtetribotiat.  Reqtre                            Otiotoo  preo   - labor forra to iao.tri. foroatrY. h- oto5  a
soot rro   ntnoe   hifa  boeed o                     -hntoairlnat  ftolorlOt-itl~a Itr                                     fot   at  otL.  tlor fort; .90   9 I0ad190   oa
itfy end haoith conitfIr           L_ trrtneta  tta".raoaro  bciesta.   a                             t_~~>ro -I-             Ott.".r 10  lot IIdatttio   eo.otaOrt
aoit  so dotrttr  de of P popo oto. ant otionlot tO potn   tnr rai   0edaec_rici.u                                  at          oO   t   oproo       f 00001 lano  forte;
ht.t. tald Iarn; 091-7,OS  a  itL9? tote.                                                             0960. 1970 .0d19 tO0 d.ra.`
Per r -pitt  I007o   rti   taatrdyfI- PratOsooae   o   ar 00020                                     Lanio.otn  dae  o rt   - .001.  -I., eo4 feata  - p-tictrota   o
tet aoppiy offo   a   o.Ot.pf f                  font is  ftotos  at tha.  to-                       tttyrostr    OPtd00ocloi.otioleiehr 0ffr. Io
Ootaefor oI  -ooaie ..et..bliaho  hy USA1505pr d.t for r.toioa                                pocnao f rttal  sola  ott feral.  optto of al   n   r.tnie
a.,o__..o If .60  ro   of  .oa.I Prcatai  o. tap an  12 oo-   of 0.`0`1 ted                         1940, 1970. e.at 190 Oc...  T`-oc  dt 00  oa 1140. Po-lopaOnra
polat Prci1o.. of attb 12 ore.-  ahald he atO-t  prottoo.   mat,  Itod-                             rolttaeote   ootr   foa  oo ia   a  I-gt otared.A
I_tcetoe  thao thet  of 75 Sats of toot  p-oOoa  oa  23 ore..  fi.Otne   o   rnotoo    iott
.tslpiit    Io to -Prt  'ot it  rortd. p,opoasd by FAO it the Third                      t.o7~or49~Oo       at    fppoebnotr1   a0   a   i.
Wtyl 1 ot   areS      1961-O5. 1970 .od 1977 Sot.                                                   I Itaaoal.hIM                   IlloIc..,.-
f                              ~~~~~~~~Choll  ,one  1-hf Dao  daelie h hoool-          -oa   aar  Poc thoea4 to,                     Fercrtoo  of Pri-Otf  ao    (Sorti It coo  no  mldl - 0000012d by ttinot
00ear   10er., 00 Itoid-o  10 OtO. 00  troop, for  S.0dttitpo    nt-                             7pett. ri.h.., 20 pe-ei. p,,Ioee   22.        porcato. oc1  p-or-I 4 Of  II re
trot.. toto   ertoe  (r    ifl. t         Io;105  1070 and 1900 dat,                               of noo..ooItt..
IEfTH ifPOVETY  TARGET G011172
hf. trto  oitoat trti,brace   - lerar  coaordo  Y.-r  of lOfe  -esettg                flt.  iolbattt0.. .etae   art .  tto -   arprtte t        refPocrny  eo-l..
at hOn; 191   o      tt19   oA.                                                                 004  h.0001  to loopeOo00   ocOohlaoo
Ltfdto ofrt-lty  at-  Elir  htcoaod) - Aonti itaacha of Iinfant  ottr orYf-                          Eta _tleto  Oh Plt -Oitet  1L000  10-1 '052  -ar crona- ator  -00 focl
of oot par thogoat It. SOrolo,; 1994  270of  1900 "Ia..                                             A.taaoot  p-rnY L.c l.         a   0ta .        cr  Io     l Ol. afIot * eo1toa
0000. tohat hanr Iercon ofitootatott- toal.  rba  aftcarl -  0.-       otrtiontlyOdtOato  ttOpnoteoonlel000-000oPqcrtate Ihro
P.rtoae    f            thi   apccopplin . t  at orbO  ortaopoil                                   P.,_,ta  Lccon  of oh, ooootry.  Oct00 L.-Icl L rrtot iro  tie  colrol
iooo-it  ortsaot             IIIso   not sort than 200  firo.f to   ahtoa  cay b.                   10.   thajtsitfor 1,4toar  --a 01 01000  to oct0b co
otasnoha  cicoo  roll bts   010tOo   oatu.   or  .asar  o  .f  htt hd-ahIld               oct coral   - yr-o to    f -Poiroltcn  lot itdt rtal  aho oc   bijt
lOao   fpor.10.,coo,rtrrl -arcet f                            sctcot  00000-01.00
pertat       Ie   f oih. at1 tto   OpLanio L          orrat  ttPIe   ro  tolcd.
Otto oailoaOaa  .04dtoois,rc   owtot   rOse.o   io    or
ZOMiypI ?hy.itlAo  - Poocotilot diotted by cbto   roittoyo                                                                             .oiooatlc.   oaJooo
.00. and    fi feetlo  rodo -t oootr.          ddton    rn.",                                                                             Id. -otool t-uttee aod.
torsoat~ ~ ~~P                     id    by  Iiit-ario-Y.



- 26 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                           ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                       o f   6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                                     f/
(million US$ at                                        Annual Growth Rates (2)-
current prices)                          Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                        1980                  1977   1978   1979   1980   1981e/                 1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17820                     6.0    2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3                    4.0      5.1     4.5      4.3
Agriculture                 3229                -12.3   18.0   -1.7    6.2  -23.0                    7.0      9.6      3.1      2.5
Industry                    5752                  8.0   -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.5                    3.7      4.6      5.4      5.1
Services                    7762                  8.5    4.0    5.1    6.4    3.4                    3.7      4.3      4.3      4.3
Consumption                    15770                  5.3    4.2    5.8    2.5    2.2                    1.3     4.2      3.5      3.6
Gross investment                4025                 15.6  -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -3.6                    6.5    -1.1      3.7      3.2
Exports of GNFS                 3273                 10.3    3.3    0.9    3.7    3.5                    4.5     7.0      6.3      5.3
Imports of GNFS                 5247                 14.5  -17.4    3.3   -9.8   10.7                  -1.9    -0.6       2.2      2.3
Gross national savings          2606                  1.5  -15.4    3.2    6.0  -20.6                    9.5    15.6    13.2       1.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)          .                172.0  186.5  200.2  218.4  241.2
Exchange rate (US$ per DH)         .                 .222   .240   .256   .254   .193
Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)                             Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)d/                        (at constant 1969 prices)   (at constant 1980 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                               4.0        4.6        5.1        3.7        5.1
Agriculture D/          29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   17.1  15.1                    3.5       -2.1        3.8        2.5        2.5
Industry b/             23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3   34.9  35.8                   4.7         7.1       4.2         3.9        5.5
Services b/             47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   47.9  49.1                   4.1        5.5         5.9       4.0         5.5
Consumption                89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   87.7  84.0                    4.1        4.8        5.8        3.0        4.2
Gross investment           10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   20.0  20.0                    8.0        9.3       -2.8        2.0        5.1
Exports GNFS               27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.5  22.7                    1.3        2.1        4.9        5.5        7.1
Imports GNFS               26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   28.7  26.7                   3.5         8.1        0.5        1.7        4.0
Gross national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   14.5  17.9                      3.5       15.3       -4.4        3.0       10.0
As Z of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  16.5       16.1       23.3       21.6        23.3
Current expenditures                              15.6       14.5       20.2        21.8       24.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                         0.9         1.6       3.1       -0.2       -1.4
Capital expenditure                                3.8        5.7       12.2        12.4       12.6
Foreign financing                                    ..        1.3        3.7        5.6        9.3
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                       4.0        6.0        5.2        3.4        5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (Z)            1.6        3.1        1.8       -0.1        2.0
Energy consumption growth rate (Z)    3.8            6.7        5.6        4.3        5.0
ICOR                                      3.09      3.0         4.1        6.2        3.9
Marginal savings rate                     0.10       0.38      -0.15       0.27       0.28
Import elasticityE/                      0.95        1.84       0.13       0.95       0.78
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
d/  Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
e/  Estimates.
f/  1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-85 at 1980 prices.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B P.1



- 27 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USS 870 (1981)                                                                          Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator           (million US$ at                              Annual Growth Rates (Z)I/
current prices)                 Actual                                    Projected
1980         1975   1977   1978   1979   1980        1981      1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)       2414       -21.9   10.7    5.3    1.8    5.1          1.0      4.0    7.8    6.7    5.1
Primary products             1823       -25.2    7.7    5.4    0.0    5.8        -8.1       1.2    3.4    3.8    3.5
Phosphate rock             765      -29.9    9.6    9-.6    3.2    7.4        -5.4       0.0    3.0    5.0    4.0
Others                     939       -22.3    6.5    2.8   -1.7   14.7    -10.0          2.1    3.7    2.9    3.1
Intermediate & manufactures 591          -1.4   23.8    5.0    7.1    2.8        27.4       9.8   16.3   11.8    7.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)       4283        21.2   14.4  -19.9    6.6   -7.1          9.3     -1.9    0.5    3.9    4.0
Food                          720        37.8    0.4    8.6    2.2    3.4        32.5    -16.8   -0.9    2.1    4.5
Petroleum                    1006        12.8    8.7   11.0   12.1  -11.9        10.8       0.0   -1.1    3.3    3.2
Machinery and equipment       805        51.7   26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.8         7.5       3.0   -2.5    4.0    2.9
Others                       1752         4.0   13.0  -15.1   12.5   -5;22       -0.3       2.6    3.7    5.0    4.8
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                 .        89.9   68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0    123.3    125.1  137.1  153.5  171.8
import price index                 .        64.1   67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0    122.3    130.9  140.2  154.3  169.8
Terms of trade index               .       140.3  100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0    100.8         95.6   97.8   99.5  101.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)                       Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                      (Constant 1969 prices)   (Constant 1980 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                          2.0      -1.2        6.6        5.2        7.6
Primary products          89.5    89.4   86.9   74.4   60.5   49.1            ..     -2.7         5.3       1.3        3.3
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.6   12.9   25.6   39.5   50.9              ..       8.1      12.1       14.0       13.0
factures
Imports                                                                          4.0       9.1        0.7        2.4       4.0
Food                      27.3    16.9   25.0   16.9   16.9   15.5            ..      14.0       3.0        0.7        2.4
Petroleum                  7.4     5.5   10.8   23.6   23.6   22.4            ..       9.6       5.3        2.4        2.8
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.1   24.0   18.9   18.7   19.2              ..      12.8      -7.0        2.4        4.5
Others                    58.6    53.5   40.2   40.6   40.7   42.9            ..       5.5       2.9        3.3        5.1
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)         Developing Countries (Z)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (x)
1960      1970       1980        1960       1970       1980      1960           1970            1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       73.7       76.5        27.7       25.4       21.6        ..            0.9             1.9
Imports                        76.7       74.9       72.9        23.3       25.1        8.3       ..              ..            18.8
1/ 1975-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-1985 at 1980 prices                                                 September 22, 1982
EMENA CP 1I-B
ID 0180B p.2



- 28 -
Population      :  20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USM at current prices)
Indicator                                                     Actual                                                  Projected
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981          1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                2288      2486      2955      3694      4364      4132          4087    4669    5401    6193   11297
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            1245      1283       1488      1938      2414      2283         2180    2575    3077    3618    7163
Imports of goods and services               3691      4364       4353      5268      5912      6095          5780    6276    6930    7734   12812
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.a/          2305      2820       2628      3245      3770      3840         4054    4365    4994    5714    9856
Net current tranfers                           47        52        50        44       128        102                 -        -        -            -
Current account balance                    -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530    -1420    -1861               -1692   -1607   -1529   -1541   -1515
Special grants                               435        360       260       420       314       313            84      197      320      150      232
Current account balance after grants    -920    -1466    -1088    -1110    -1106    -1548                   -1609   -1410   -1209   -1391   -1283
Private capital                                38        53        45        37        88        68            76       85       96      106      171
MLT loans (net)                               838      1338      1109       946       971      1205          1071    1425    1371    1666    1359
Official                                    ..        ..        ..        .         ..      1315           994      736      878      982    1092
Private                                     ..        ..        ..        ..        ..      -110            77      689     493      684      267
Other capital                                  28        68       ^73        73      -200         17           ..        .
Monetary movements'.                           16         6         8        53       247       258           462    -100    -258    -381    -263
International reserves                        548       609       772       917       814       508           470      543      653      787    1635
Of which:  Gold                            82       104        154       360       415       278          278      278      278      278      278
Reserves as months imports                    1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1       1.7       1.0           1.0      1.0      1.1      1.2      1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT c/
Gross disbursements                           725      1787      1182      1405      1567      1807
Concessional loans                        111       636       325        293       750      1089
DAC                                     63       109        91        76        96        138
OPEC                                    41       507       189       168       584       837
IDA                                      4         3         -         -          1         2
Other                                    3        16        45        49         69       112
Non-concessional loans                    614      1151        859      1113       818       718
Official export credits                 22        27         2          2        12       128
IBRD                                    59        68        72       137        64       129
Other multilateral                       2         6        53          7        13        86
Private                                531      1050       732       967       729        375
Suppliers credits                    10       171        10         8        16         6
Financial credits and bonds        521        879       722       957       713       368
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           2330      4069      5123      6182       7097      8381
Official                              1250      1975      2456      2833      3482      4865
Private                               1080      2094      2667      3349      3615      3515
Undisbursed debt                          801      1024      2280       2337      2058      2901
Debt service
Total service payments                    162       264        547       798      1191      1340
Interest                                66       148       252       410       618       738
Payments as % exports of G+S d/           7.2      10.7      18.7      21.8       27.0      31.3
Average interest rate on new loans (X)           7.7       6.8       7.0       8.2       8.1        8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)           11.7      13.1      13.2      15.9       13.7       8.0
As % of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                              47.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                             88.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                              7.3
a/ c.i.f. for projected years.
b/ Projected values include IMF credits.
c/ Years 1976-80 from IBRD External Debt Reporting System, 1981 from the BOP statistics. There are sizeable discrepancies in some years
between the external capital and debt service flows reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of
payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
d/ Excluding debt service on IMF loans.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B p.3



- 29-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982) a!
Loan or                                                                           US$ Million
Credit                                                                 Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Twenty-four   Loans       Fully disbursed                              617.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                           36.0
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                    8.4
555            1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0         11.1
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                 21.0                   11.6
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   14.6
141b           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   30.5
1428           1977       BNDE                    DFC                   35.6                    2.5
8-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    0.5 -
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       15.2
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   59.1
_1625          1978       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                     5.9
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  108.9
*                          1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                25.0                   12.8
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                    Agriculture             .0                   30.8
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            44.0                   30.4
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   49.6
S-18           1980       BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   20.7
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   53.8
1848           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                   32.2
1943           1981       CIU                     Tourism              100.0                   70.9
1944           1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                       36.0
2006           1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            87.0                   87.0
20371/         1982       BNDE                    DFC                   70.0                   70.0
20381/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                   70.0
20821/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             29.0                   29.0
21091/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                   9.5                    9.5
2ilo /        1982       Kingdom of Morcco       Forestry              27.5                   27.5
2ii41/         1982       ONAREP                  Oil Shale             20.0                   20.0
21491/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Education V             50.0                   50.0
Total                                                            1908.5       50.0      1010.4
of which has been repaid                                       239.4         1.2
Total now outstanding                                            1669.1       48.8
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid                   17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   1666.7       48.8
Total undisbursed                                                 999.3       11.1      1010.4
NOTE
a! Does not include the Oulmas Rommani Agriculture Development Project, loan of $30 iillion,
approved December 14, 1982.
1/ Not effective as of 9/30/82. However, since then the following loans have been declared
effective: BNDE IX, Forestry, Small-Scale Mining, Middle Atlas Agricultural Development,
Small Scale Industry II, and Oil Shale Engineering.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
______US$ Million
Loan     Equity   Total
1962/1978           BNDE                          Development Bank            -       2.7       2.7
19b6                CIL                           Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory              -       1.3       1.3
1977/1980           Temara Cement                 Cement Factory            4.7       3.6       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement *               Cement Factory           12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SOMIFER                       Copper Mining            13.0       2.3      15.3
1981/1983           Casablanca Cement             Cement Factory           15.8      -2.1      17.9
Total Gross Commitments                                                46.9      14.7      61.6
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales            15.4       3.5     18.9
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      31.5      11.2      42.7
Total Undisbursed                                                      15.8       2.4      18.2
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; USt32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980.
Funds have been fully committed for the additional infrastructure works and
equipment provided for under an amendment to the Loan Agreement approved in
July 1980. Final disbursements are expected by end-March, 1983 and unused
funds will be cancelled.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and civil works
(roads, destoning and irrigation rehabilitation) bave been started in the
remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected, mainly because
project implementation has proven more complex than anticipated, wbich has
been aggravated by project management problems. However, the first results of
the completed components are promising. Because of the initial delay and the
complexity in implementation, the original closing date was extended by three
years.
Ln. No. 1202        Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The project consists of infrastructure works and common facilities
for a hotel/residential tourism development complex. Most infrastructure
works were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of common
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to institutional and project management problems. Project
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems wbich are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
completion is expected to be delayed by at least 18 months, and an extension
of the closing date has been under consideration for a long time since it has
been made contingent on the Government's agreement to an action program. The
Government has now been advised that the Bank will cancel the balance of the
loan on December 31, 1982 unless an action program has been agreed upon by
that date.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
4                              Date:  September 1, 1983.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agricultural extension, health and tourism. After an initial
two-year delay, construction under the education and agriculture components is
largely completed and funds are committed for the equipment and technical
assistance components, but lengthy delays have been experienced in the
implementation of the health and tourism components.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date; June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco in 1980-81 which caused a delay of about
two years. Project implementation has resumed vigorously under excellent
project management.
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of industrial sub-projects, and of a small-scale industry pilot
credit program ($5 million). The loan is fully committed, and the loan is
expected to fully be disbursed before end 1982. BNDE's financial performance
deteriorated sharply in 1981, but the trend should be reversed since a package
of measures to rehabilitate BNDE financially and to strengthen the institution
has recently been agreed upon.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a first phase project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation was delayed by about 15
months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily and an extension
of the closing date is under consideration. The technical components of a
possible project have been identified, but institutional problems have not yet
been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. After initial delays, project
implementation has recently improved significantly. Infrastructure works are
under way and bousing improvement loans are being made. Relocation to sites
and services areas is under progress and some enterprises have started
operation in the industrial zone. Disbursements, however, remain low and the
matter is under review with the Government.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to
the growth of agricultural production and to a reduction in Moroccan
dependence on imported food commodities. These aims would be achieved through
a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension and soil
conservation services, training, the provision of credit and infrastructure.
Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, due to
excellent project management and good interagency coordination. However,
disbursements have lagged due to delays by the implementing agencies in
submitting reimbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storing facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory. The project account is being closed and an amount of
about $5 million is expected to be cancelled.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation was initially delayed; however, all major contracts have now
been signed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US025.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a Government program to assist
small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The loan is fully committed, and earlier disbursement
delays are being remedied subsequent to the recent introduction of simplified
administrative procedures.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in more than 200 villages throughout the country. Problems of
interministerial coordination and budgetary allocations delayed project
start-up for about one year. Orders have now been placed for most of the
equipment but no payments have yet been made. However, implementation is well
under way and the project is expected to be completed according to schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project covers most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through mid-1983. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD and
KfW. CNCA's on-lending as well as repayments were severely affected by the
1980-1981 drought, slowing disbursement of the Bank loan. To alleviate CNCA's
short-term liquidity problems (due mainly to the drought), its lenders,
including the Bank, have increased their disbursement percentages under their
respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to increase accordingly.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No, S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the Government's
petroleum exploration and development program. It has recently been
transferred from BRPM, the original Borrower, to the new petroleum development
agency, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
(ONAREP). The project also provides technical assistance in prospect
evaluation, analysis of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Drilling so far has shown encouraging results, particularly as regards natural
gas prospects.  Procurement problems have hampered project implementation and
recruitment of consultants has proceeded very slowly. Administrative problems
have also delayed disbursements.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transport to improve transport
planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement strengthening and
maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The hiring of
consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the slow
preparation of the terms of reference. Disbursements have lagged due to
delays in payment of contractors as well as transmittal of reimbursement
requests to the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project provides funds over a three year period to the Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing in the
tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It. also
includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and training of
CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects. Commitments and
disbursements have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project consists of the provision of shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families through a program for slum upgrading,
sites and services and provision of serviced land for small-scale industries,
to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Assistance is also
provided to strengthen the municipal services of the project cities.
Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient coordination through the
provincial Governors' offices, but some delays in approval of contracts by the
Ministry of Finance have occurred.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project includes the construction of two regional water
supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply facilities
in about 32 small towns scattered throughout Morocco. It would also provide
revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income households,
equipment, technical assistance, training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Date of effectiveness: November 2, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project also
focusses on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.



-37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II Project; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: February 24, 1983.
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project: US$29.0 million of March 5, 1982. Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1982. Closing Date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of interrelated forestry, range and cropping
land development to bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, on about 600 ha. in central Morocco, as well as to raise
income and employment among the target population.
Loan No. 2109       Small-Scale Mining Project: US$9.5 million of April 14,
1982.  Date of Effectiveness:  November 19, 1982.   Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This pilot project would increase the productivity of small-scale
lead and zinc mining operations through provision of equipment and facilities,
as well as credit to miners, in a remote region of Morocco thus increasing
exports and raising rural incomes. The project would also strengthen the
financial, technical and administrative base of CADETAF, the implementing
agency, and finance studies as a basis for future expansion of mining
activities. Implementation is proceedirng satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2110       Forestry Project: US$27.5 million of April 14, 1982.  Date
of Effectiveness: October 28, 1982. Closing date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of destumping about 30,000 ha of eucalyptus
plantations and degraded oak and cork forests and replanting with eucalyptus,
pine and acacia; upgrading and construction of forest and access roads;
pasture improvement over 2,000 ha; and technical and institutional support.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2114       Oil Shale Engineering Project: US$20.0 million of April 14,
1982. Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1983. Closing
date: September 30, 1986.
The engineering project would finance studies and the construction of
a shale retorting test station to generate information and analysis on the
characteristics of Moroccan oil shale resources and on the technical and
economic viability of alternative options for their development.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No. 2149       Fifth Education Project: US$50.0 million of November 5,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing date: March 31, 1988.
The project is designed to improve the effectiveness of primary
education and support expanded science and mathematics teaching at the senior
secondary level, through construction of four senior secondary teachers
training colleges, 40 rural primary schools and the provision of teaching aids
to about 700 primary schools.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
4          Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identification:                             October 1980
(b)  Time taken by the Borrower to prepare project:  18 months
(c)  Agencies responsible for project preparation:   Roads and Traffic
Department (RTD) of
the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) with
assistance from the
Bank and consultants;
the Studies, Planning
and Coordination
Department of the
Ministry of Transport
(MOT).
(d)  First Bank Mission to review project:               February 1982
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                     June 1982
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations                  February 25, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                       June 30, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness
1.   Issue of request for proposals from consultants to carry out the
freight market study (paragraph 62).



- 40 -
ANNEXE III
page 2 of 2
Other Special Conditions
2e   The Government will send to the Bank for review and comment:
a) the bidding documents for the bridges to be reconstructed each
project year, on or before October 31 of the preceding year
(paragraph 54);
b) the economic evaluation according to agreed guidelines, as well as
the detailed engineering and bidding documents for the provincial
roads included in the project, by October 31 of the year preceding the
year of proposed construction (paragraph 56);
c) annual programs of civil works and road maintenance under the
project consistent with the action plan agreed with the Bank, by
September 30 of each preceding year (paragraph 60);
d) quarterly reports on the progress of the project (paragraph 69).
3.   The Government will also send to the Bank semi-annual reports on the
following information in an agreed format (paragraph 67);
a) continuous automatic traffic counts and measurements of pavement
roughness at intervals and on road sections strengthened under the
project agreed with the Bank;
b) two one-week traffic counts at semi-annual intervals on the
provincial roads constructed under the project; and
c) monitoring, in consultation with the concerned provincial
departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, of the
agricultural development occurring after the construction of
provincial roads, including the type, amount, and timing of
complementary agricultural investments.
4.   The Government will implement those of the freight market study's
recommendations upon which it reaches agreement with the Bank
(paragraph 62).



-~                   IBD67
T-~~~~~~~ 1l:9n;S  tioN i  Ear? 72  Cl S   M o]l                                      W A      TW
m    b  :R  6  CEC  C   0       ;t         i::\ kk:  ik              ;        :        "   ;i';  af                                                                 b     0 g        & ; .
FOURTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                                                                Sii i                                                                                      " 5
NEW CONSTUCIL0ON
i \  -    -<tg~~~~roesisrrol ooa irst tranch,)     S      f,       i0z  E   z4          t              \tX                                                               +<'
73 4~~~~             PREVIOUS PROJECTS,
Major roads conarroored
Main roads
; ~~~~~A,,qq Jy:P ;(  tt ;                                                                                     ;Af   AVrm:  <<  
- - - TArac/
4    Arroorri ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ELADM
a-r-- 300 Mhlllseter loohyyt
Irdiooans the sesritory of thre
o  50  5  0  50  50  50 0   50 i_
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il
CANARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A  r   A  N  7-  C] C' CA Al~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                rots ctOrrrdl
i 0A2D  i;i;|4Af<                                                                           D                                                                                   osatOXg~~uQs eovr *r so o  r_. sO o
tf _/                                                                                                                                                                                  I  ___ _) D;2   2;  y   a a  ot , D f D wed  ,   /  enSorsqwerf nracc#n8eslCeof   1 g     MA L E Tr  IARI
_          ,27                      ,     2                                       lo C8ANARY 



