Document of
The World Blank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C,2   Z/ 3/1-  I
Report No. 7796-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURE DEVEI-AMFNT PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 26, 1989
Agricultural Operations Division IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their officel duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be ",   wh  ^ W   '    , I  . -



CURRENCY UNIT
New Peso (NUS)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of September 12, 1989)
US$1   NU$640
NUSl   US$0.002
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ASL          Agricultural Sector Loan
BCU          Central Bank of Uruguay
(Yanco Central del Uruguay)
B U          Mortgage Bank of Uruguay
(Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay)
BROU         Bank of the Republic of Uruguay
(Banco de la Rep6blica Oriental del Uruguay)
CADA         Supply Administration Committee
(Comision Administradora de Abasto)
CIAAB        The Alberto Boerger Agricultural Research Center
(Centro de Investigaciones Agricolas *Alberto Boerger')
COEX         General Directorate of Foreign Trade
(Direcci6n General de Comercio Exterior)
CONAPROLE    National Dairy Producers' Cooperative
(Cooperativa Nacional de Productores de Leche)
CONEAT       National Committee for Agro-Economic Study of the Land
(Comisi6n Nacional de Estudios Agro-econ6micos de la Tierra)
CP           Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program
CPI          Consumer Price Index
(Indice de Precios al Consumo)
CTMP         Chemical and Thermo-Hechanical Pulp
FUCREA       Uruguayan Federation of Regional Agricultural Experimentation
Groups
(Federaci6n Uruguaya de Consorcios Regionales de
Experimentacion Agricola)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOU          Government of Uruguay
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFI          Intermediate Financial institution
IHAGRO       Land Tax/Tax on Imputed Net Income
(Impuesto a las Actividades Agropecuarias)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



INAC         National Meat Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Carnes)
INC          National Settlement Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Colonizaci6n)
IRA          Agricultural Income Tax
(Impuesto a las Rentas Agropecuarias)
JGF          Japanese Grant Funds
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance
(Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas)
MGAP         Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries
(Ministerio de Ganaderia, Agricultura y Pesca)
OPP          Office of Planning and Budget
(Oficina de ?laneamiento y Presupuesto)
PBPI         Product Basket Price Index
PCR          Project Completion Report
PLAN         Livestock Plan
(Plan Agropecuario)
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Report
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
SUL          Uruguayan Wool Secretariat
(Secretariado Uruguayo de la Lana)
TC           Audit Board
(Tribunal de Cuentas)
UTU          The Labor University of Uruguay
(Universidad de Trabajo del Uruguay)



URUGUA.f
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pare No.
I.     LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..      ....................................   1
II.    TE$ AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........     .............................   3
Agriculture in the Economy .................  ................  3
Principal Non-Financial Institutions in the Sector ..........    5
Research and Extension ....................................... ......   6
The Banking Sector       ..........................................   6
Agricultural Credit .........................................     7
Financial Sector Development    ................................   7
IBRD's Experience in Lending for Agriculture ................    8
III. THE PROJECT ................                                     .. 9
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement .................. .   9
Project Objectives ..........................................  10
Project Description .........................................  10
Project Costs and Financing     .................................  15
Procurement ....................................... .           16
Disbursements and the Special Accounts ......... * ............ 17
Accounting and Audits .......................................  17
Reporting ....8...................................  i
Environmental Impact .......................................  18
Project Benefits ........................................  18
Project Risks and Uncertainty ...................   ..............  19
IV.  AGREEHENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .......................... .......  19
ANNEXES
I.     Agricultural Credit:  Credit Regulation        ....................... 22
II.    Institutional Component:  LivestockjC-ropping ................ .. 35
III.   Institutional Component:  Forestry ........................... 42
IV.    Institutional Component:  Non-Traditional Agricultural Exports   54
V.     Suzimary of IBRD-Assisted Projects in the Agricultural Sector ...  66
VI.    Illustrative Investment Models ......      .......................... 67
VII.   Project Cost and Financing Data - COSTAB ...................... 71
VIII.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ........................... 76
IX.    Key Indicators and Reporting Requirements ..................... 78
X.     Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....     .......... 82
MAP IBRD No. 21503
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission that visited
Uruguay from February 13 to March 4, 1989, comprising Messrs. S. Oliver (Bank),
H. Lisboa, M. Fairless, A. Guzman, F. Rodriguez and N. Welsh (consultants), and
a post-appraisal mission that visited Uruguay from April 16-21, 1989,
comprising Messrs. S. Oliver and J. Parker (Bank).



URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Uruguay
Executing Agencies:   Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU), and Ministry of Livestock,
Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP).
Beneficiaries:        Agricultural and livestock producers and processors.
Amount:                US$65.0 million equivalent.
Termst                Fifteen years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Financial
Intermediaries:     All qualifying commercial banks, both public and private,
and banking houses (casas bancarias).
on-lending Terms:     The Borrower, through its Central Bank, would rediscount
subloans made by participating intermediate financial
institutions (IFIs) to finance lOOZ of all subloans under
the project. A subloan would not exceed 50Z of a
subproject's cost. Subloans would be denominated in local
currency (NU$). The principal value of the subloan would
be adjusted by an index agreed upon between the IFI and
the sub-borrower. IFIs would pay the BCU interest equal
to: (a) the average six-month market rate for US dollar
deposits in Uruguay, where the sub-borrowers choose US
dollar-indexed subloans; or (b) a minimum of 32 p.a. where
sub-borrowers choose the local Consumer Price Index (CPI)
or one of three product basket price indices. Terms and
conditions of subloans would be negotiated between IFIs
and their clients, and would remain fixed for the duration
of the subloan.
Proiect
Obiectives:         The project would increase agricultural output, especially
that of export 2roducts, by providing long-term financing
for farm development and agro-industry, and institutional
support in key areas. In addition, the project would
promote increased efficiency in agricultural lending and
in the provision of technical assistance.
Proiect
Description:        The project would include:  (a) a general line of credit
to finance agricultural and agro-industrial investments,
as well as complementary permanent working capital; and
(b) institutional support for farm extension, forestry,
and promotion of non-traditional exports.
Project
Benefits:           The main project benefits would include:  (a) increased
volume and diversicy of agricultural exports; (b) creation
of closer links between the private and public sectors in



- 2 -
export promotion; (c) development of a critical mass of
forestry resources for the subsequent establishment of
forest-based industr7y; (d) improved efficiency of farm
extension through greater involvement of the private
sector; and (e) a more competitive and market-oriented
system for supplying investment credit to agriculture.
Protect Riskst         The major uncertainty involves credit demand by producers,
resulting from the incorporation into the project of new
agricultural enterprises and from the changes in the terms
and conditions of lending from those which have been
established over a long period. However, the steady
demand for investment credit experienced in recent years
is expected to continue with the maintenance of an
economic environment designed to stimulate export-led
growth.  Substantial priLe risks are inherent in an
agricultural project which relies on export markets.
However, the diversification of output, which is one of
the main objectives of this project, would help to reduce
the impact of those risks. Investment in processing and
other agro-industry would increase domestic value-added
and thereby provide the basis for the penetration of more
demanding markets.
Estimated Costst
Local      Foreign         Total
… -------- US$ million …
A. Investment Credit               82.8          35.4          118.2
B.  Institutional Support           5.3           6.3           11.6
Total Baseline Costs         88.1          41.7         129.8
Contingenciesl                1.2           1.4           2.6
Total Project Costs          89.3          43.1         132.4
Financint Plant
IBRD                         24.9          40.1          65.0
Government                    4.0           1.2           5.2
Japanese Grant Funds          0.2           1.6           1.8
IFIs and Sub-borrowers       60.1           0.3          60.4
Total                     89.3         43.3          132.4
Estimated &fRD Disbursements:
IBRD FY       19902   1991    1992    1993   1994       1995    1996    1397
-----------------------US$ mlllion…------------------------
Annual          7.3     5.8     8.3    11.1   14.0      14.1      4.4     0.0
Cumulative     7.3    13.1    21.4    32.5   46.5       60.6    65.0    65.0
Economic Rate of Returns  Not Applicable
MaD IBRD No. 21503
1, Price and physical contingencies have been applied only to the
component of institutional support, and amount to 18.42 and 4.3X of the
baseline costs, respectively.
2/ Includes the initial deposit in the Special Account of US$6.0 million
equivalent.



II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Asriculture in the Economv
2.01     Background.  Uruguay's early economic prosperity was driven by its
export-oriented agricultural sector. The Depression of the 1930s heralded
the beginning of an import-substituting strategy emphasizing industrial
development that lasted for forty years. This strategy and the demands of
a welfare state led not only to economic stagnation but also to a transfer
of income from the agricultura'  sector, and specifically from the livestock
subsector, which discouraged growth in production and exports. A process
cf stabilization and structural reform was begun in 1973, but this was
interrupted by an inconsistent policy framework between 1978-82 which
produced the worst economic recession in Uruguay's history. In 1985, the
incoming democratic government reaffirmed its commitment to structural
reform and an open economy, and set out a four-year development program for
the period 1986-89. Its actions in many areas provide evidence of its
commitment to reform.
2.02     The Government's program contains important structural reforms in
key policy areas, including: (a) a policy and incentive framework to
encourage exports, including a floating exchange rate; (b) the
liberalization of capital markets, interest rates and foreign exchange
transactions, and the removal of almost all price controls; (c) measures to
slow inflation and to achieve a better balance in resource allocation
between the public and private sectors; and (d) public investment oriented
specifically towards supporting private sector activity. The program was
successful in halting the recession and in initiating economic recovery.
The Bank's SAL I played an important role and concentrated on four main
areas of policy to encourage exports: export competitiveness, the tariff
regime, export taxation, and incentives and promotion measures.  Uruguay
remains critically dependent on exports as its primary source of growth,
and exports responded impressively to the progrim, growing by 40? in value
between 1985 and 1987, and by an additional 192 in 1988.
2.03     The Role of Asriculture.  The agricultural sector in Uruguay'  is
crucial to the economy.  It contributes 122 of GDP, directly employs 11Z of
the work force, and makes a major contribution in generating foreign
exchange. Exports of livestock and crop products, including
agro-industries and manufactures, made up 82? of export earnings in 1987.
However, between 1970-87, the sector grew at less than 0.52 p.a. whereas
GDP as a whole grew at 1.52 p.a. Following the recession of 1982-85, the
agricultural sector and the rest of the economy have yet to return to the
output level of 1980-81 despite impressive growth rAtes since 1985.
2.04     Measured in terms of natural resources and known technology, the
sector operates at a level well below its potential. Uruguay's main
comparative advantage lies in livestock production, and pastures occupy 85?
of all productive land. However, the area available for cropping otl a
sustainable basis is 1.6 million ha, and in 1987, for example, the actual
cropped area was only 28? of this figure. Although the sector has grown by
only 7.5Z since 1970, there have been significant changes in the
1/ The Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. 7502-UR, Nc7ember 14, 1988)
describes in detail the role of the sector and its development
potential.



- 4-
composition of output; beef production and exports have stagnated, but wool
production and exports have grown as a result of a significant increase in
the national flock. The traditional crops (cereal and feed grains.
oilseeds) have experienced a major decline in area, whereas those destined
for export have enjoyed a significant increase. There has been substantial
diversification of exports over the past 15 years, including dairy produce,
rice, malting barley and citrus, demonstrating both the potential in terms
of resources and the responsiveness of the private sector. Although
forestry has been only slightly developed, Uruguay has significant
potential for certain fast-growing apecies, including pine and eucalyptus.
A critical mass of 160,000 ha of new ij2a.ted forest is considered to be the
minimum necessary to permit viable inve.stments in forest-based industry.
2.05     Constraints to Growth.  In spite of its recent encouraging
performance, the agricultural sector faces several important constraints to
its development. Uruguay is almost self-sufficient in agricultural
production and further development of the agricultural sector is crucially
dependent on export markets. The domestic market is small and undemanding
in terms of quality of produce. Access to the markets of its immediate
neighbors is erratic, being heavily dependent on their changing
macroeconomic policies. In the broader world market, Uruguay like other
developing countries is confronted by problems of agricultural surpluses
and depressed prices. Resolution of these issues could markedly change
export prospects.
2.06     The availability of agricultural technology in both traditional
and non-traditional products is an important constraint.  Agricultural
research suffered a serious decline which began in the early 1970s, caused
by insufficient budgetary resources and loss of key staff.  Present efforts
by the Government to restructure research are being delayed by legislative
steps which reflect a controversy within the sectcr over the future course
of research and its management.
2.07     The performance of the agricultural sector is largely dependent on
the livestock subsector, which generates almost two-thirds of sector
output. The conservative and risk-averse philosophy of production, which
resulted from government intervention over the long term to transfer
resources out of the sector, coupled with the absentee form of management
which is a feature of many ranches, make the adoption of improved
technology a slow process. The serious problem of farm indebtedness,
induced by the inconsistent economic policy framework between 1978-82, has
been contained and is slowly being resolved.
2.08     Aaricultural Stratexv and Policy.   Uruguay currently has one of
the most market-oriented economies in Latin America, and agricultural
policy is articulated largely in terms of the exploitation of comparative
advantage. The objectives of the Government ares (a) to increase
productivitv, output and exports; (b) to achieve a balanced distribution of
the benefits; and (c) to preserve natural resources. The explicit,
long-term strategy is one of diversification for which there is
considerable potential.  However, with little public expenditure in
agriculture and a commitment to the allocation of resources by market
forces, the policy instruments directly available to Government are limited
in number. They amount principally to the removal of market distortions
and the generation of public goods in the form of research-based
technology, technical assistance and infrastructure.



Principal Ron-Financial Institutions in the Sector
".-09    The State plays a limited role in the agricultural sector.
Production is entirely in the hands of the private sector, but the State
exerts influence on the sector's economic environment via certain
institutions. The Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP)
is nominally responsible for defining and implementing agricultural
strategy &nd policy. However, in practice, the Miniatry of Economy and
Finance (MEF) and the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) have risen to
preeminence, particularly under the present administration, and the role of
MGAP has been weakened. Nevertheless, MGAP remains the controlling
ministry for several key agricultural institutions. The Livestock Plan
(PLAN) is a special program of MGAP which has served as the conduit for
technical assistance and, with the Bank of the Republic (BROU), for credit
under successive Bank loans. In recent years, it has suffered budgetary
constraints and a loss of autonomy, and its influence with producers has
been reduced. The Alberto Boerger Agricultural Research Center (CIAAB),
the Government's research organization operated through MGAP, has also been
reduced in efficiency and importance since the early 1970s. Recent steps
to improve and modernize agricultural research are described in para. 2.13.
2.10     In the livestock subsector. significant support is provided to
sheep production by the Uruguayan Wool Secretariat (SUL), which is
affiliated with the International Wool Secretariat. Financed from an
ear-marked export tax, SUL operates as an autonomous public institution.
The freedom of decision-making which this permits has allowed it to make a
significant contribution via extension and demonstration over a period in
which the sheep population has risen to an all-time high.  The National
Meat Institute (INAC) was established in 1965 to restructure the
nationalized meat packing plants. In 1984, INAC was itself rgorganized and
absorbed the Supply Administration Committee (CIDA).  Its responsibilities
were redefined, and it became an autonomous public institution financed
from an ear-marked tax on export and domestic sales of meat. Under Law
15605 of 1984, it retains wide-ranging powers to intervene and apply
controls in meat marketing and the meat-packing industry, especially in the
maintenance of standards. INAC was studied in detail under the Bank's
Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2468-UR) and recommendations were made, and
largely implemented, to improve its operations. These included the
reduction of beef stocks, elimination of profit-margin limits, the
reduction of INAC's role in government-to-government transactions, and the
limitation of INAC's role in the establishment or modernization of
meat-packing facilities.
2.11     The cooperative movement has made considerable progress in recent
years. The most impressive example, the National Milk Producers'
Cooperative (CONAPROLE), has developed diverse overseas markets for dairy
produce and provides comprehensive extension services to its members. Its
processing facilities have allowed the development of dairy proluction in
different parts of the country, and its wide range of products is available
on a nationwide basis. Other cooperatives operate on a regional basis and
are not necessarily limited to single lines of production. Of the regional
cooperatives, the Agricultural Cooperative of Northern Uruguay (CALNU) is
the most advanced. From its basis in the cane sugar industry, it has
diversified into table grape and wine production and into vegetables for
freezing. Important second-tier cooperatives operate: in meat, the
Central Meat Cooperative (CCC); in wool, the Central Wool Cooperative
(rT.TT . avin tn oarn4n, tho CAntrAl 'ra4ne t.nnnorAt4va (nnPlr).



-6-
Research and Extension
2.12     The generation and adaptation of agricultural technology and its
adoption by producers are key requirements for the growth of output in
Uruguayan agriculture, since productivity is generally low. This applies
to both traditional activities and those non-traditional activities aimed
predominantly at exports. In broad terms, research and extension have
failed to support agricultural production, and where success has been
achieved it has largely been the result of private sector initiative,
including that of the cooperatives. The failure by the State to provide
these essential preduction supports has complex causes, but a shortage of
human resources is not among them; Uruguayan agricultural researchers are
highly regarded by research institutions throughout Latin America and
beyond. Low public sector pay and inadequate budgetary resources have been
the main problems.
2.13     The institutions of research and extension are evolving in
response to the Government's efforts to achieve structural change.
However, the full implications of a strategy based on market forces and
comparative advantage will take considerable time to be felt. The changes
proposed in the structure of agricultural research and the increased
availability of private sector extension are clear indications of progress.
A draft law is before Congress to create an autonomous public institution,
the National Irnstitute for Agricultural Research, which would allow
producers a role in determining the research agenda and would fund the
recurrent costs from an ear-marked agricultural sales tax. A loan has
recently been signed with IDB which provides for the rehabilitation of
research facilities and new investment.
2.14     Since 1960, agricultural extension has evolved from being almost
entirely the responsibility of the State to being a shared responsibility
with the private sector. The State's institutions have lost much producer
confidence but the role of SUL, CONAPROLE and farmers, self-help groups
(CREAs), which are all producer-financed, has increased significantly. The
extensionists of MGAP, including PLAN, are affected by low public sector
salaries, and the part-time working and lack of discipline which result
have seriously reduced their effectiveness. The problem of poor public
sector pay is a serious structural issue in Uruguay. High levels of public
sector employment are a result of economic and social policies pursued over
many decades. Fiscal constraints ensure that all are badly paid, including
those in essential roles such as research and extensiou. The issue cannot
be addressed through a single project. In the absence of adequate public
sector pay, the solution probably lies in the pragmatic approach being
sought under the new research law and in giving encouragement to producers
to use private and cooperative sector extension services.
The Banking Sector
2.15     In the early 1980s, financial liberalization created conditions
which encouraged a substantial expansion of the banking system in Uruguay.
The legalization of foreign currency deposits attracted a significant
volume of non-residents' deposits. Liquidity increased sharply, while
Central Bank (BCU) controls and regulations were practically dismantled.
Credit expanded rapidly, both for productive and speculative purposes.
Exchange rate, financial and interest rate policies encouraged producers to



- 7 -
borrow heavily in US dollars. The overvaluation of the NU$ became
unsustainable by the end of 1982, and the sharp devaluation p'   ed the
economy into a severe recession. The resulting financial di e.s caused
widespread insolvency and the private banking system showec ..gative net
worth by the end of 1984. The Government. through the BCU, assumed mWch of
the banking sector's bad debts in order to protect depositors and declared
a debt moratorium. The democratic government which took office in 1985
began an action program to achieve economic stability, and as part of the
restructuring of the financial sector four insolvent private banks were
taken over by BROU.
2.16     The financial system in Uruguay is made up of the BCU  -.wo
state-owned banks (the multipurpose Bank of the Republic-BROU,  nd the
Mortgage Bank of Uruguay-bHU); 22 commercial banks, of wt4ich 18 are private
and foreign-owned and four are owned (i.e., intervened) by BROU; and 15
privately-owned banking houses, whose operations exclude transactions in
local currency and checking accounts. About 722 of the banking system's
deposit liabilities and 75Z of its credit outstanding to the private sector
is in US dollars. Due to the retrenchment of private banks, since 1982
BROU has been able steadily to increase its share of the local banking
market. From end-1985 to mid-1988, its share of 4eposit liabilities to the
private sector increased from 322 to 352, and its share of net internal
credit to the private sector increased from 392 to 432. This trend was
reflected in its share of total credit to the agricultural sector, which
rose from an average of about 292 in the early 1980s to about 502 at
present.
Agricultural Credit
2.17     The agricultural sector received about 202 of total private bank
credit during 1983. This share decreased to about 152 during 1988. Most
credit to the sector is provided on a short-term basis at market interest
rates, as banks rely on short-term deposits to fund their lending.
Long-term lending has been supported mainly by IBRD credit lines, which
have been channeled exclusively through BROU. These have made up about 42
of total lending to the sector during the period 1987-88.  Since 1986, BROU
has also lent modest amounts of its own funds on a long-term basis.  BROU
has recently begun to implement a new agricultural credit project, under a
loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). If disbursed over the
years 1989-90, as planned, it would equal 3Z of the credit flows of 1987-88
to the sector.
2.18     Despite a number of administrative shortcomings, BROU has been an
effective financial intermediary for previous IBRD agricultural projects.
During the last three years, subloan approvals have averaged over 1,500 per
year. A recent internal review of all subloans made during the years
1974-84 determined that actual loan losses after final liquidation of
collaterals were negligible. This finding can be confidently accepted, as
any loan losses would have been eligible for reimbursement under an
enforceable Government guarantee.
Financial Sector Development
2.19     As a multipurpose, Government-owned bank, BROU is the most
important credit institution in Uruguay. Until 1967, it acted as central
bank and still handles most financial transactions for the central



government and loc.:LI authorities. With its system of 100 branch offices
and its monopoly relationship with the Government and public sector, it has
enjoyed a dominant position and remained largely outside BCU control and
supervision.  However, its present accounting system does not separate its
government and private sector activities, and its management accounting
system is not designed to provide measurements of efficiency or to help it
make decisions in a competitive business environment.
2.20     As part of the Bank's SAL II, approved on June 8, 1989, the
commercial banking regulations and reporting requirements of the BCU will
be upgraded to international standards (Basle Agreement) and applied to all
banks, including BROU.  In addition, BROU will separate its commercial and
non-banking operations and adopt the accounting practices of the BCU.  BROU
will be required to pay dividends to the Government on its equity, reaching
52 p.a. by 1991, and to make interest payments on public enterprise and
Government accounts. The accompanying Technical Assistance Loan II will
support the modernization of BROU, including the computerization of its
accounting system, and will provide for a study of BROU's future role based
on these changes.
2.21     The Government is also committed to strengthening the private
banking system by restructuring and privatizing three of the four
commercial banks previously rescued by BROU. The fourth bank will be
liquidated. Two of these banks have extensive branch office systems with a
tradition of lending to agriculture. By restoring them to health, the
Government intends to increase competition within the banking sector and
improve services to the agricultural sector. To support these objectives,
the credit operation proposed under this project would be open to all
qualifying commercial banks.
IBRD's ExDerlence isn Lending for Agriculture
2.22     Bank lending to the agricultural sector in Ulruguay has been almost
continuous since 1960. Summary information on the investment loans is
provided in Annex V. The First Livestock Project (Ln. 245-UR) became
effective in December 1960, and was followed by four further projects,
supported by six loans, the last of which closed in March 1981. These
projects provided supervised credit for pasture improvement and livestock
production, an evolutionary process of support which mirroretd the unusual
economic and political circumstances of Uruguay between 1960 and 1980.
2.23     The PCRs/PPARs for the third, fourth and fifth projects
(comprising five loans) concluded that: (a) the transfer of improved
pasture technology had been reasonably successful, but its diffusion had
been slower and less complete than anticipated; (b) more attention should
be paid to pasture management, forage conservation, and institutional
obstacles; (c) technical progress, to be continuous, requires the
identification and resolution of problems, and PLAN was not capable of
solving technological problems of growing complexity; (d) subloan indexing
was imperfect and had not fulfilled its objectives; and (e) the choice of a
credit subsidy, rather than a fertilizer subsidy, had placed emphasis on
pasture establishment at the expense of maintenance. Beginning with the
third proj;ct, policy issues were given prominence, including the
replacement of export taxes by a land tax, restructuring of the
meat-packing industry, and the creation of INAC. The slow progress and



- 9 -
shortfall in the numbers of tarmers reached under the fourth and fifth
projects were believed to have been caused by unstable sectoral policies
and adverse changes in international beef markets. Many of the gains made
earlier in .mproved pastures were lost during the fourth and fifth
projects, as a result of overgrazing and inadequate fertilizer use.
2.24     The Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 1831-  .), which closed
in December 1988, continued to support pasture and livestock improvement
and also aimed to encourage the integration of crops and livestock and to
improve cropping operations, in order to combat declining soil fertility
and worsening soil erosion. The project's implementation reflected the
major changes experienced in the macroeconomic environment. The volume of
subloans programmed by PLAN was US$9-10 million per year from 1980-82,
collapsed to a low of US$1.6 million in 1984, and climbed steadily to
US$14.6 million in 1987 and US$18.5 million in 1988. The composition of
subloans has changed significantly, with more emphasis on the purchase of
machinery and livestock and less on pastures. During the course of the
project, PLAN continued to lose its autonomy, and its efficiency has been
reduced by a continuing dec.ine in the real value of salaries which has
exacerbated the problem of part-time working.
2.25     In 1984, the Bank approved an Agricultural Sector Loan
(Ln. 2468-UR) to support policy reforms, which included: (a) reductions in
export taxes; (b) simplification of procedures for importing agricultural
inputs; (c) studies of BROU and INAC, and agreement on plans of action to
implement the recommendations; (d) expansion of PLAN's extension activities
in crops, and maintenance of its budget at a satisfactory level; and
(e) lifting of statutory restrictions on BROU's ability to lend to the
meat-packing industry. The first tranche was released shortly after Board
approval, but the second tranche was delayed by the Government's reluctance
to complete the elimination of export taxes and by a procedural problem
with respect to the study of INAC. The PCR concluded that, with minor
exceptions concerning export taxes on unprocessed wool and some categories
of beef, the conditions of the loan had been met and that the loan had
contributed materially to reducing Government intervention and enhancing
the role of market forces.
2.26     The lessons learned from earlier projects have been incorporated
into the design of the proposed project. A broader, more flexible approach
has been adopted to the provision of agricultural credit, which recognizes
that the producer ultimately must take the resnonsibility for the
allocation of incremental capital in his enterprise. The mechanisms for
delivery of credit would be demonopolized, and activities beyond the
traditional livestock and cropping subsectors would be supported.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01     The outline of the proposed project was developed by GOU officials
and by Bank and FAO/CP staff during the production of the Agrict'ltural
Sector Review (para. 2.03). The proposed project was prepared b- a working
group established by OPP, PLAN and MGAP, supported by a team of
consultants.  Three preparation missions were made by Bank and CP staff
between December 1987 and August 1988.  The project was pre-appraised in



- 10 -
September-October 1988 and appraised in February-March 1989. Loan
negotiations were held during July 1989 in Washington, D.C.. The
delegation from Uruguay was led by Mr. Ariel Davrieux, Director of OPP.
3.02     The proposed project is consistent with the analysis and
conclusions of the Agricultural Sector Review and with the process of
structural reform supported by the Bank in SAL I and SAL II. The
Government's Letter of Development Policy, which is included with SAL II
documentation, presents a second medium-term program, 1989-92, to follow
and complement the first. Sectoral development policy for agriculture
identifies the livestock subsector, non-traditional exports and forestry as
the main priorities.
3.03     The project would assist in achieving the Government's objectives
of increasing productivity and of expanding and diversifying output and
exports. In addition, the project would encourage the modernization of
institutions, widening the mechanisms for the supply of credit to
agriculture by establishing the BCU as the apex lending institution, and
give enhanced responsibility to the private sector both in terms of
production and support services to production.
Proiect Obiectives
3.04     The project would:  (a) increase and diversify agricultural
production and exports; (b) encourage better use of Uruguay's natural
resources, promoting adoption of technology in the extensive pasturc areas,
diversification of production in the more intensively-farmed southern and
western areas, and establishment of commercial forestry in priority areas;
(c) encourage competition in the provision of long-term agricultural credit
and increase market influence in the determination of interest rates paid
by final borrowers; and (d) encourage privately-financed extension services
to compete with those provided by the Government.
Proiect Description
3.05     The project would include: (a) a line of medium- and long-term
credit to finance investments such as agricultural machinery, pasture and
other ranching improvements, commercial forestry, orchard establishment and
renovation, agro-industrial processing facilities (including packing
facilities) and permanent working capital complementary to investments; and
(b) institutional support to traditional agriculture (livestock and
cropping), forestry and non-traditional agricultural exports.
3.06     Credit.  Loan funds would be on-lent by BCU, as financial agent
and apex institution, to participating official and private commercial
banks and finance houses (IFIs), which would make subloans to final
borrowers denominated in NU$. The principal value of subloans would be
adjusted using the Consumer Price Index (CPI), one of three Product Basket
Price Indices (PBPIs), or the NU$/US$ index. The PBPIs would cover
livestock, livestock/crops and dairy. The individual producer would choose
between the PBPI relevant to his enterprise, the CPI or the US dollar
index. Where sub-borrowers were producers of commodities not included in
one of the PBPIs or were agro-industries or service providers, the choice
of index would be limited to the CPI and US dollar index. The IFIs would
assume the credit risk for their lending. In the case of US dollar-indexed
subloans, sub-borrowers would assume the exchange risk between NUS and the
US dollar, while the GOU would assume the risk between the US dollar and



- 11 -
the Bank's currency basket. Where subloans were indexed to the CPI or
PBPIs, the GOU would assume all foreign exchange risk.
3.07.    Over the long term, variations between the PBPIs and the CPI, and
thus the number of producers who benefit from or are penalized by the
variations, would tend to balance out. The three PBPIs, which were used
under the previous project (Ln. 1831-UR), have followed the evolution of
broader measures of inflation in recent years. In the period 1983-1988,
two of them were above and one below the CPI. The CPI itself increased in
Uruguay by 692 in 1988 and by 572 in 1987. Sub-borrowers would not
normally be allowed to prepay their subloans in the first year.
Prepayments to take advantage of favorable movements in a PBPI could create
a fiscal cost for the GOU. Agreement was reached during negotiations on
the methodology which would be used by the GOU to quantify the fiscal cost
(if any) of lending under the project. This information would be included
in the periodic review (para. 3.08) of lending terms and conditions to be
undertaken by the Bank and the Borrower. It was agreed at negotiations
that the GOU would complete a study, within one year after loan
effectiveness, to determine alternative ways of achieving the policy
objectives of using PBPIs. Among other aspects, tae study would consider
t..e development, preferably by the private sector, of market-based
negotiable instruments and price insurance schemes.
3.08     For US dollar-indexed subloans, IFIs would pay BCU a fixed
interest rate for each subloan equal to the average six-month deposit rate
for US dollars in Uruguay determined as of the calendar month previous to
disbursements under the subloan. This would represent the highest marginal
cost for US dollars in the country, and the final lending rates should be
market-determined. For subloans with principal adjusted by other indices,
IFIs would pay BCU a fixed interest rate of not less than 32 above the
selected index. This rate, plus a minimum spread of 22 for IFIs, would
yield a lending rate to final borrowers of at least 52 above the selected
index. This rate is equal to the BHU's cost of funds using a CPI-indexed
principal, local-currency savings deposit, which is the only such financial
instrument currently in effect in Uruguay. As IFIs would receive project
funding at or close to its market cost, they would be allowed to negotiate
with their clients the final interest rate, which (with a very minor
exception) would be fixed for the life of the subloan. This would ensure
market rates for clients and adequate spreads for IFIs. The minimum spread
and minimum final interest rate were aRreed during negotiations, as well as
the need for a regular review mechanism of lending terms and conditions.
3.09.    After nine months from the date of loan effectiveness, the Bank
and the Government could consult, at the request of either one, on: (a)
the fiscal cost to the Government of lending under the project; (b) the
level of demand for subloans under the project; (c) competing lines of
credit and the inUluence of factors under the control of the Government or
BCU. A review two years after signing the Loan Agreement would include a
discussion of the findings and recommendations of the study to determine
alternatives to the use of PBPIs (para. 3.07). Following such reviews, the
Bank and the Government would agree on any specific changes necessary, to
the Credit Regulations or any aspect of credit policy. If agreement could
not be reached, or if the Government were unable to implement agreed



, 12 -
measures within a three-month period from the end of the consultation in
question, new subloans under the project would cease to be presented for
disbursement. It was agreed at negotiations that the system of index
switching (the doble tope) used under the previous project would not be
employed under the proposed project and that IFIs would not employ an index
switching arrangement for loans financed from other sources for similar
purposes.
3.10     Eligi..bility criteria for subloans specified in the Credit
Regulations would include, inter alia, satisfactory technical and financial
feasibility. IFIs would have the responsibility to appraise their
subprojects, and would ensure that loan applications meet the technical and
financial requirements; this might require certification or preparation of
plans by a qualified professional, the cost of which could be capitalized
into subloans. Agro-industrial sub-borrowers would provide their IFIs with
a technical and financial feasibility study. There would be no limit to
subloan size. Those over US$300,000 for producers and over US$500,000 for
other borrowers would require review and approval by the Bank. The
maturity and grace periods of subloans would be determined by TFIs, subject
to limits established in the Credit Regulations.
3.11     Loan proceeds would be committed over a five-year period from Loan
Effectiveness.  However, it was agreed during negotiations that the
Borrower's right to present subprojects for Bank approval above the free
limit (para. 3.10) would cease after January 31, 1993 or three years from
the Effective Date, whichever comes earlier. This time limit would allow
the Bank to re-examine the need for and size of free limits for subloan
approval, as well as provide the Bank with leverage in policy and
institutional development issues that might exist at that time. BCU would
administer the credit component through its Department for International
Organizations, which would rediscount subloans granted by IFIs in
accordance with Credit Regulations agreed at negotiations (Annex I). This
Department successfully administered an earlier Bank loan for industrial
credit (Ln. 1930-UR) with the same IFIs. In order to participate, each IFI
would sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with BCU. Model drafts of these
documents were agreed at negotiations. In addition, as a condition of
effectiveness for the loan, the Government through BCU wouldt (a) issue
the Credit Regulations and publicize them in two main newspapers; Lnd (b)
sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with BROU.
3.12     The unit in BROU which has administered previous IBRD agricultural
projects would be used to handle BROU's participation in the proposed
project. The unit has operated under BROU's standard accounting system,
which has not been fully satisfactory in the past for IBRD supervision or
evaluation. The time between BROU disbursements on subloans and its
requests for reimbursement from the special account held in the BCU
averaged about two months during implementation of the last Bank project
(Ln. 1831-UR). BROU has changed its internal administrative procedures to
reduce substantially this delay in the future. It is also upgrading its
management accounting system for the project unit so that it can comply
with the BCU's standard chart of accounts for the project. As a condition
of effectiveness, BRO1 would provide evidence that it has the capability to
provide its management and the Bank with timely information on the project
portfolio of subloans as required in the Credit Regulations.



- 13 -
3.13     Institutional Suiport and Technical Assistance.   A component of
institutional support and technical assistance would focus on: (a) the
traditional livestock and crop subsectors; (b) the forestry subsector; and
(c) non-traditional agricultural exports. It would be implemented by the
specialized divisions of MGAP. The component is more fully described in
Annexes II, III and IV.
3.14     In the livestock and crop subsectors, the subcomponent would
include demonstration farms, applied research and training. PLAN would be
responsible for the development of up to 16 demonstration farms, located in
distinct agro-ecological zones, the main function of which would be to
demonstrate proven technology under commercial conditions to agricultural
consultants and producers. At negotiations, agreement was reached ons (a)
the definition of agro-ecological zones for the location of demonstration
farms; (b) the criteria and procedures for selecting farms; (c) the
contract to be signed between PLAN and the farm owner; and (d) the
agreement to be established between PLAN and DGGTT establishing the
latter's role in the subcomponent.  A condition of disbursement of the
sub-component would be the selection of the farms to be incorporated in the
first year of the program and the detailed definition of the technology and
management practices to be adopted on each of the farms.
3.15     The project would include applied research to address specific
problems of pastures and pasture management. At negotiations, agreement
was reached on: (a) the details of the proposed research program; and
(b) its explicit targets for each area of research.
3.16     The project would provide training in two main areas.  Practical
short courses on farming would be given to about 1,000 trainees, mostly
farm foremen. These courses would be undertaken by the PLAN, with the
assistance of the Labor University of Uruguay (UTU). During negotiations.
agreement was reached with PLAN for the administration of the courses and
on the composition of the curriculum advisory board. In addition, about
100 advanced farming students or young graduates would be provided with
scholarships to undertake combined courses of agricultural studies and
pr..ctical work of at least six months' duration in developed countries with
an agricultural environment similar to that of Uruguay. These scholarships
would be organized by OPP with assistance from a broad-based selection
committee. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the composition of
the selection committee and on the administrative procedures to be
followed.
3.17     The forestry subsector in Uruguay is small, but there is
significant potential for certain fast-growing species. The project would
provide technical and financial assistance to develop forestry research,
extension, and training at both manual and professional levels, and to
promote the planting of commercial forests. The research program would
focus on forest yields, forest management, agro-forestry (combining cattle
and sheep ranching with forestry) and wood technology. The project would
allow for the international recruitment of an experienced manager for a
Forestry Unit, the establishment of which within the Forestry Directorate
of MGAP would be a condition of disbirsement of the subcomponent. At
negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms of reference and job
description for the Forestry Unit's manager. The appointment of the
manager would also be a condition of disbursement. The main functions of



- 14 -
the unit would be to promote forestry as a financially-rewarding
enterprise, to administer the research and training programs (which would
be based on the use of consultants and a few short-term actolarships), and
to promote the transfer of technology to private consultants.
3.18     The Dromotion of non-traditional aaricultural exports (NTAEs)
requires innovation and the development of sound technical practices, high
quality standards, and market knowledge by the private sector. The project
would encourage potential and actual exporters to take sound, programmed
actions to promote NTAEs.
3.19     The subcomponent has two parts.  The Program of Export Awareness
would bring specialized expertise, targeted to groups of exporters with
common interests in issues concerning their external markets, processing,
post-harvest, plant varieties, and cropping in specific export fruits,
vegetables and other market-gardening (araniero) products. This would
include group visits to overseas marketing hubs, group visits by exporters
or their technical advisors to overseas production areas, visits by
overseas customers to Uruguay, local technical field trips and short
seminars.
3.20     The Risk Fund for the Promotion of NTAEs would finance, on a
non-reimbursable basis, 50Z of the direct costs of eligible actions by
exporters attempting to explore and gain external market access for
specific NTAEs. The purpose of the Fund is to share risks in the initial
penetration of markets. The Fund would commit resources to support a set
of critical actions proposed by an exporter in an "export project"
containing sound, programmed, market-related steps, aimed at setting up a
commercial flow of export products. The first three export projects to be
financed would be reviewed by the Bank. An export project would be
considered successfully completed upon arrival of the first commercial
shipment. The Fund's contribution would be limited to US$50,000 in any one
export project. Fund financing would be restricted to one or a set of
eligible actions encompassini a maximum period of 24 months within the
time-frame of a selected export project. The list of products considered
as traditional exports, and criteria for defining them as such, was aRreed
at negotiations.
3.21     A Coordinating Unit for the Piomotion of NTAEs, to be created by
Presidential Decree, would be responsible for the execution of the program.
It would function in MGAP and be presided over by an MGAP representative.
OPP and MEF would participate, with one representative each. The
Coordinating Unit would be supported by a small Technical Secretariat,
headed by an internationally-recruited Technical Secretary responsible for
the day-to-day management and budgetary control of the two subcomponents.
At negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) the decree to establish the
Coordinating Unit; (b) the draft contract which would define the
relationship between the Fund and its beneficiaries; (c) the regulations to
be followed by those seeking assistance from the Fund; and (d) the terms of
re. rence and job descriptions for the Technical Secretary and counterpart
staff of the Technical Secretariat. The establishment of the Coordinating
Unit, the establishment of the Fund, an initial Government contribution to
the Fund o.- at least US$100,000, the issuance of the Fund rules, and the
appointment of the Technical Secretary would be conditions of disbursement
of the subcomponent.



- 15 -
3.22     The analysis of nominal and effective protection and of domestic
resource costs undertaken in the course of the Agricultural Sector Review
(para. 2.03) indicated that traditional exports are discriminated against
and import-substituting products are protected. Based on the work done for
the Review, a study, financed under the project, would be undertaken of the
sources and causes of discrimination and protection which encourage an
allocation of resources not fully consistent with the pattern of
comparative advantage. Following negotiations. agreement was reached on
terms of reference for the study acceptable to the Bank. The study would
be completed within one year of loan effectiveness. The results would be
discussed with the Bank as soon as possible after completion, and
corrective action agreed upon would be taken where appropriate.
3.23     Despite the achievements in liberalization since the mid-1970s,
constraints to export procedures still exist. A study would be undertaken
of the micro-regulation of the export trade, including technical,
administrative, commercial and legal procedures. Following negotiations,
agreement was reached on terms of reference for the study acceptable to the
Bank. The study would be completed within one year of loan effectiveness.
The results would be discussed with the Bank as soon as possible after
completion, and measures would be defined and, if agreed upon, taken to
reduce the identified constraints.
3.24     To allow the mid-term and ex-Post evaluation of the project and
its impact, a baseline study would be carried out.  This would include:  a
detailed estimate of the sources and uses of medium- and long-term credit
in agriculture; an analysis of the present provision of technical
assistance services from all sources; an analysis of agricultural exports
and their evolution in recent years; an inventory of planted forest
resources and analysis of their use; an inventory of commercially-oriented
fruit and vegetable production; and an analysis of agro-industrial
facilities, particularly those oriented towards export markets. Following
negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms of reference for the study
acceptable to the Bank. The study itself would be prepared by June 30,
1990.
Proiect Costs and Financing
3.25     Project costs net of taxes and duties are estimated at US$132.4
million equivalent, of which about 332 would be foreign exchange costs.
Price contingencies, amounting to 1.62 of total baseline costs, were
included only for the institutional support component at the rate of 5.32
for 1989, 5.3Z for 1990, and 4.1? p.a. thereafter. Physical contingencies,
amounting to 0.42 of baseline costs, were applied only to the institutional
support component at a rate of 5.0Z. Project cost and financing data are
presented in Annex VII.
3.26     The proposed Bank loan of US$65.0 million equivalent would finance
49Z of total project costs, including local currency expenditures. Project
beneficiaries and IFIs would finance US$60.4 million equivalent,
representing about 462 of the total, with beneficiaries contributing a
minimum of 20? of subproject costs. Government would provide most of the
counterpart funding for the institutional support component amounting to
US$5.2 million equivalent, or 42 of the total. The Japanese Grant Fund
would provide US$1.8 million equivalent or 12 of the total project cost,
and would finance foreign technical staff and consultants, training, and



- 16 -
overseas study. The Bank loan would be made to the Government at the
standard variable interest rate for a term of 15 years, including five
years of grace. To enable project executing agencies to prepare for an
early start on project implementation, project expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1989 but prior to loan signing would be eligible for
reimbursement up to total of US$6.0 million. Retroactive financing would
apply to: (a) the credit component where the terms and conditions of
eligible subloans should be similar to those agreed during appraisal; (b)
proje-t expenditures made by the Forestry Directorate; and (c) the costs of
the technical secretary for the NTAE Coordinating Unit.
Procurement
3.27     Goods, services and civil works financed through the investment
credit component would be diverse and would be procured by a large number
of sub-borrowers. Host are expected to be supplied locally. For goods,
works or services costing US$3.0 million or more, International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procurement would be conducted according to Bank guidelines.
For goods, works or services costing between US$1-3 million, international
shopping would be carried out, and below US$1 million normal commercial
practices would be employed.
3.28     Purchases of goods financed t.hrough the institutional support
component would be bulked either individually by each agency or jointly,
whenever possible. Contracts of more than US$300,000 would be awarded in
accordance with ICB procedures conducted according to Bank guidelines.
Contracts of less than US$300,000 would be awarded through local
competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost
less than US$30,000 equivalent and aggregating not more than US$250,000
ec,uivalent could be awarded through local shopping procedures. Contracts
for values over US$100,000 would be reviewed by the Bank prior to their
signature. Goods and services financed under export projects supported by
the NTAE component would be diverse and would be procured by a significant
number of beneficiaries, followirig normal commercial practices. The
contribution of the Fund to an export project would be limited to a maximum
of US$50,000. Consultant services, estimated at 175 man-months, including
the three-year appointments in the Forestry Directorate and the Technical
Secretariat for NTAE promotion, would be selected according to Bank
Guidelines. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
procurement procedures outlined would be followed.
Procurement Method:
ICB       LCB        Other   Total Cost
-------------------US$ million---------
Investment Subprojects         -          -         118.2      118.2
(59.1)    (59.1)
Institutional Support and
Technical Assistance         -          -          14.2       14.2
(5.9)     (5.9)
Total                          -          -         132.4      132.4
(65.0)    (65.0)
Note: Amounts financed by the Bank are shovn in parentheses.



- 17 -
Disbursements and the Special Accounts
3.29     Loan proceeds would be disbursed over eight years, consistent with
the standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in the LAC
Region. Bank disbursements would be made against: (a) 100? of subloan
amounts rediscounted by BCU; (b) 1002 of goods for forestry institutional
development ard for the NTAE coordinating unit; (c) 100I of expenditures
for services of managers of the Forestry Unit and the NTAE Coordinating
Unit Technical Secretariat and the carrying out of the studies; (d) 60? of
the Promotion Fund for NTAEs; (e) 232 of specified investments in the
establishment of demonstration farms by PLAN; (f) 1002 of expenditures on
consultants and training by PLAN; and (g) 1002 of expenditures on applied
research by PLAN.
3.30     Disbursements of the Japanese Grant Funds (JGF) would be made
agsiinstt (a) 752 of expenditures for applied research in forestry;
(b) 1OOZ of expenditures for technical assistance and training in forestry;
and (c) 70Z of expenditures for technical assistance in the program of
export awareness for NTAEs.
3.31     A Special Account for Bank. disbursements would be established with
an initial deposit equivalent to US$6.0 million; this would be adequate to
cover the maximum four-month flow of disbursements expected during the
project. Bank disbursements to replenish the Special Account would be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) with respect to credit,
expenditures on the heads of the Forestry Unit and NTAE Coordinating Unit
Technical Secretariat, local training, and all contracts and expenditures
for less than US$100,000. All other expenditures would be fully
documented. A Special Account for the JGF would be established with an
initial deposit equivalent to US$200,000. Disbursements from the JGF would
be made against SOEs. The relevant documentation in support of SOEs would
be retained by each IFI and by the relevant functional unit within MGAP,
and would be made available to the appropriate auditors and Bank review
missions. Estimated schedules of Bank loan disbursements and JGF
disbursements are shown in Annex VIII. The closing date of the loan would
be June 30, 1997.
Accountins and Audits
3.32     The BCU and MGAP would maintain separate accounts and necessary
supporting documentation to record project expenditures. Project accounts,
including the Special Accounts, would be audited annually in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by external
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and with terms of reference
approved by the Bank. The Audit Board (TC), the Government's audit
authority, is considered independent and is currently acceptable to the
Bank. The TC is the independent auditor for BCU and BROU. The BCU would
annually require each participating IFI to provide certification by its
independent auditor that the 2etated subloan disbursements had been made in
accordance with its participation agreement with the BCU. The BCU would
provide an annual TC-certified audit opinion for all SOEs presented to the
Bank. The BCU would submit these accounts to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. MGAP would submit annually to
the Bank project accounts for its component, aud3ced by the TC no later
than six months after the end of its fiscal year.



- 18 -
Reporting
3.33     Each participating IFI would submit a report semi-annually to
MGAP, which would include information on: (a) amounts committed;
(b) number and type of subloans granted; (c) subloan disbursements made;
(d) subloan repayments and repayments to BCU; and (e) amounts in arrears.
The BCU would consolidate this information and submit it to the project
monitoring unit in MGAP, which would also be directly responsible for
monitoring the implementation of the institutional support component.
3.34     Baseline, mid-term and ex-post evaluation of the impact of the
project would be the responsibility of OPP. Semi-annual progress reports
would be sent to the Bank not later than two months after the end of each
period. Satisfactory Terms of Reference would be presented to the Bank
prior to the mid-term and ex-post evaluations and the reports would be sent
to the Bank currently estimated as not later than October 31, 1993 and
October 31, 1997, respectively.
3.35     The statistical data an4 background information required for Part
III of the Project Completion Report is described in Annex IX. The
base-line study (described in para 3.24) would define the data requirements
for monitoring and evaluation of the project.
Environmental Impact
3.36     In the past, little concern has been shown for environmental
issues in the agricultural sector in Uruguay. However, there is a growing
recognition of the problem of soil degradation and erosion resulting from
inappropriate laad management practices, especially in the intensively-
cropped areas.   Agricultural research has begun to place more emphasis on
environmental matters. To complement this, the project would also address
land degradation and soil erosion through various actions. The
institutional support component would finance activities in the forestry
subsector, encouraging investments in planting forests by making farmers
more aware of their economic importance. It is anticipated that the
concept of agro-forestry will be increasingly adopted. In addition,
demonstration farms would assist farmers to avoid errors made in the past
and would emphasize soil conservation measures. Seminars on natural
resource use and farm planning would be organized by Government agencies
(such as PLAN) for private agricultural consultants. Consultants providing
technical assistance to farmers would be encouraged to follow Bank
guidelines with respect to the use of pesticides. The training to be
financed by the project, both in Uruguay and abroad, would allow farm
foremen and agricultural technicians to receive practical training in soil
conservation.
Proiect Benefits
3.37     Ten illustrative investment models, described in Annew VI, have
been designed to analyze the financial viability of investments in the
agricultural sector. Costs and benefits were estimated based on current
domestic market prices. The investments were modelled on cattle and sheep
ranches, a dairy farm, a crop and livestock finm, citrus orchards (with and
without irrigation), an apple grove, a small farm specializing in
horticultural crops, and two forest plantations. Internal rates of return
of investments were derived from the subproj..t cash flows before
financing, and range from 162 to 35Z.



- 19 -
3.38     The project would increase overall agricultural production by
providing long-term financing for investments in production and in
processing. More importantly, the project would help Uruguay diversify its
agricultural production, specifically for non-traditional agricultural
export products and forestry products. Opportunities for increased
employment would accrue for both rural workers and agricultural
extensionists/consultants from the increased investments.
3.39     The project would also encourage the participation of banks other
than BROU in lending to the agricultural sector, the possibility of
competition between banks w-)uld increase the efficiency of agricultural
lending. In addition, the technical assistance component is designed to
provide Government support to private industries and services that provide
agricultural technical assistance and export services.
Project Risks and Uncertainty
3.40     The major uncertainty involves credit demand by producers,
resulting from the incorporation into the project of new agricultural
enterprises and from the changes in the terms and conditions of lending
from those which have been established over a long period. However, the
steady demand for iavestment credit experienced in recent years is expected
to continue with the maintenance of a macroeconomic environment designed to
stimulate export-led growth. Substantial price risks are inherent in an
agricultural project which relies on export markets. However, the
diversification of output, which is one of the main objectives of this
project, would help to reduce the impact of those risks. Investment in
processing and other agro-industry would increase domestic value-added and
thereby provide the basis for the penetration of more demanding markets.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01     The following agreements were reached at negotiations2
(a)  that the Government would assume the risks associated with
currencies and the use of indices (para. 3.06);
(b) the methodology to quantify the fiscal cost of lending under
the project (para. 3.07);
(c) that a study would be undertaken of alternative means of
achieving the policy objectives of PBPIs (para. 3.07);
(d)  a minimum spread of 2? (para. 3.08);
(e) minimum on-lending rates of interest of 52 p.a. for subloans
indexed to CPI or PBPIs, and of six-month US dollar deposit
rate plus minimum spread for subloans indexed to US dollar
'para. 3.08);
(f) the need for a regular review mechanism of lending terms and
conditions for agricultural credit (para. 3.09);



- 20 -
(g)  that index switching (the doble tope) would not be utilized
under the project or for competing lines of agricultural
credit (para. 3.09);
(h)  commitment period for loans above the free limit (para.
3.11);
(i)  appropriate Credit Regulations (para. 3.11);
(j) appropriate Subsidiary Loan Agreement betwea3n BCU and
participating IFIs (para. 3.11);
(k)  the procedures for selection and contract of demonstration
farms, and the role of the DGGTT (para. 3.14);
(1)  the pasture research program and its implementation (para.
3.15);
(m)  course administration and curriculum advisory board for
farmer training in Uruguay (para. 3.16);
(n)  administrative procedures and selection for overseas farmer
training (para. 3.16);
(o)  Terms of Reference and job description for the Forestry Unit
Manager (para. 3.17);
(p)  the definition of traditional agricultural exports
(para. 3.20);
(q)  the decree to establish the Coordinating Unit for Promotion
of NTAEs and the relationship between the Fund and its
beneficiaries (para. 3.21);
(r) the Terms of Reference and job descriptions for the staff of
the Technical Secretariat (para. 3.21);
(s)  the scope of the studies concerning discrimination and
protection in agriculture (para. 3.22), micro-regulation of
exports (para. 3.23), and baseline data (para. 3.24); and
(t)  that procurement procedures would be followed (para. 3.28).
4.02     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  that BCU would issue the Credit Regulations, publicize them,
and sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with BROU (para. 3.11);
and
(b)  that BROU would provide evidence that it has introduced
procedures to provide its management and the Bank with timely
information on the project portfolio of subloans as required
in the Credit Regulations (para. 1.12).



- 21 -
4.03     Conditions of disbursement of the loan would bet
(a)  for the livestock subcomponent, the selection of
demonstration farms to be incorporated in the first year and
the definition of technology and management practices (para.
3.14);
(b) for the forestry subcomponent, the establishment of the
Forestry Unit and appointment of the manager (para. 3.17);
and
(c) for the NTAE subcomponent, the establishment of the
Coordinating Unit, the creation of the Fund and the
definition of the Fund rules, the availability of sufficient
financial resources, snd the appointment of the Technical
Secretary (para. 3.21).
4.04     With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$65.0 millon equivalent on standard terms for
Uruguay.
September 26, 1989



- 22 -
URUGuAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT REGULATION
Introduccifn
Articulo 1. El prop6sito de la presente reglamentaci6n es establecer las
disposiciones que regiran la ejecuci6n del componente crediticio del
Segundo Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuar-io. Los recursos del Proyecto
destinados a dicho componente crediticio (en adelante denominado el
Programa) estaran constituidos por los recursos provenientes del prestamo
del Banco Internacional de Reconstruccion y Pomento (BIRF) y los recursos
forzosos de contrapartida local. La Rep6blica Oriental del Uruguay sera el
prestatario del BIRF, y el Banco Central del Uruguay (BCU), que actuarA
como agente financiero del prestatario, administrara el Programa con la
participacion de Instituciones Financieras Intermediarias (IFIs).
Obietivos
Articulo 2. El Programa, como parte del Proyecto, tiene como objetivo
principal contribuir al incremento de la capacidad de producci6n y de la
productividad agropecuaria, agroindustrial y forestal, y a dirigir la
capacidad asi incrementada a la diversificaci6n del sector y a generar
mayores excedentes exportables. Asimismo las operaciones de crddito, a
mediano y largo plazo, proporcionaran recursos financieros a nivel nacional
para coadyuvar en el financiamiento de proyectos especificos de inversi6n
que sean viables tecnica, econ6mica y financieramente.
Definiciones
Articulo 3. A los efectos de este Reglamento se establecen las siguientes
definiciones:
"Contrato de Pr4stamow:  Contrato de Prestamo No.       -UR,
suscrito entre la Rep*blica Oriental del Uruguay y el BIRF,
en fecha                          con las modificaciones que
de tanto en tanto se le efectuarAn, y que como parte de este
Reglamento se anexa al mismo debidamente traducido;
f
"Provecto": Conjunto de actividades agropecuarias,
agroindustriales y forestales a que se refiere la Parte A del
Anexo 2 del Contrato de Prestamo No.       -UR;
"BIRF': Banco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento;
"BCU": Banco Central del Uruguay;
"BROU': Banco de la Repiblica Oriental del Uruguay;



ANNEX I
- 23 -                   Page 2 of 13
'Comisi6n': Comisi6n Honoraria del Plan Agropecuario;
"IFI": Instituci6n Financiera Intermediaria. Cualquier
banco comercial del sector pCblico o privado o casa
financiera que haya firmado un Convenio Subsidiario de
Participaci6n;
"Convenio Subsidiario de Participaci6n": El convenio que
cada IFI debera suscribir con el BCU, para participar en el
Proyecto y, por consecuencia, en el Programa;
"Usuario (o Beneficiario):s Persoia fisica o jurldica que,
al reunir los requisitos de elegibilidad establecidos en este
Reglamento. esta calificada para recibir, y recibe, recursos
prestables del Proyecto en calidad de mutuo;
"Subprovecto": Plan de inversiones agropecuarias,
agroindustriales y/o forestales del usuario que sera
financiado, necesariamente, con recursos prestables del
Proyecto y del propio usuario (ver Articulos 4 y 21) y, en
forma contingente, con recursos propios de la 1I1 o IFIs
involucradas no sujetos a financiamiento bajo un Prestamo
Subsidiario, y que, en cierta medida, podran reemplazar los
recursos del propio usuario;
-Costo del Subproyectolt Estara constituido por los montos
estimados para inversiones de capital, y de capital de
trabajo asociado con esas inversiones, y que son requeridos
para llevar a cabo el subproyecto;
'Subprdstamo": Un prestamo de mediano o largo plazo
efectuado por una IFI a un usuario, integramente financiado a
traves de tm Prestaumo Subsidiario, con recursos
desembolsados, o a desembolsarse, para tal finalidad bajo el
Contrato de Prestamo, y, que sera utilizado por el usuario
exclusivamente para financiar hasta el 50Z del costo del
subproyecto en cuesti6n;
'Prestamo Subsidiarion: Credito que otorga el BCU con
financiamiento exclusivo del BIRF a las IF1I, para financiar
un subprestamo, sujeto a las condiciones establecidas en este
Reglamento y en el respectivo Convenio Subsidiario de
Participaci6n;
'Contrato de Subpr4stamo'z Contrato celebrado entre cada IFI
y el usuario para el otorgamiento de un subpr6stamo destinado
al financiamicnto de un subproyecto;
"Recursos del Usuario (o Beneficiario)': Recursos aportados
por el usuario para cubrir la parte del costo del subproyecto
respectivo no cubierta por el subprestamo o por otros
prestamos que una o mas IFIs hicieran al usuario con recursos
propios.



ANNEX I
- 24 -                    Page 3 of 13
Recursos del Proarama
Articulo 4. Los recursos prestables del Proyecto para el Programa estaran
constituidos por los fondos del Prestamo No.        -UR, asignados durante el
periodo de desembolso del mismo, la(s) categoria(s)             del Anexo
del Contrato de Prestamo, y ademas por los de las IFIs, si ellas
optaran, ademas, por proveer otros fondos propios sin recurrir a
financiamiento bajo el Prestamo Subsidiario. Ademas de los recursos
prestables se contara con el aporte de los beneficiarios, cuya obligaci6n
sera la de completar, con dicho aporte, la cobertura del costo total de
cada Subproyecto.
Articulo 5. Los recursos prestables del Proyecto seran destinados al
financiamiento de Subproyectos especificos, en todo el territorio Uruguayo,
que cumplan con los objetivos del Proyecto y que sean viables tecnica,
econ6mica, administrativa, financiera y ecol6gicamente, de acuerdo con el
resultado del analisis que haga la respectiva IFI de la solicitud de
prestamo para un subproyecto que presenten los eventuales usuarios.
Eiecucifn
Articulo 6. El Proyecto. en el aspecto crediticio, sera administrado por
el BCU y los recursos prestables del Proyecto seran canalizados a los
usuarios por intermedio de las IFIs.
Eleaibilidad de los Usuarios
Articulo 7. Seran elegibles para obtener financiamiento con recursos del
Proyecto:
(a) los siguientes productores agropecuarios y forestales, estos
6ltimos en la medida en que acrediten que las actividades
forestales incluidas en el subproyecto hayan sido aprobadas por la
Direcci6n Forestal para los fines de la Ley                    y su
reglamentaci6n:
-  propiet&rios, aparceros y/o arrendatarios, ya se trate de perso-
nas juridicas o naturales;
- cooperativas agropecuarias;
- asociaciones de productores agropecuarios;
(b) contratistas agropecuarios o forestales, ya se trate de personas
juridicas o fisic4p, que contraten habitualmente con los
productores referidos en (a), la prestacion de servicios
(excluyendo servicios de consultoria) directamente relacionados a
la produccidn del productor en cuestidn; y en el caso de
actividades forestales, con las mismas limitaciones que, respecto
de los productores se han expresado en el parrafo (a) de este
articulo; y
(c) empresas agroindustriales que se dedican al procesamiento de mate-
rias primas provenientes de la produccion agropecuaria, o forestal,
bajo cualquier forma de sociedad mercantil.



ANNEX I
- 25 -                   Page 4 of 13
Utilizaci6n de los Recursos del Provecto
Articulo 8. Los recursos del Proyecto se utilizaran para financiar las
inversiones de capital y el capital de trabajo a estas asociado, en pro-
yectos de desarrollo agropecuario, forestal o agroindustrial. En el caso
de productores que requieren asistencia tecnica, como parte del
subproyecto, Los honorarios correspondientes podran ser financiados con los
recursos del Proyecto hasta el equivalente del 32 del costo del
subproyecto.
Restricciones en el Uso de los Recursos del Provecto
Articulo 9. Las disposiciones de la Ley 15.322 y de los articulos 92,
92.1, 92.2, 92.3. 93, 93.1, 94 y 95 y demas relaciouados de la circular
1201 del BCU, 38a. actualizaci6n se tendrin por reproducidas en este
articulo como parte integrante de este Reglamento.
Articulo 10. Ninguno de los siguientes rubros podri financiarse con
recursos de uno o mis Subprestamos, sean o no considerados ellos como parte
del costo de Psbproyecto:
(a) gastos generales y de administracion de los usuarios;
(b) adquisici6n de terrenos o de edificios;
(c) cancelaci6n de deudas, pagos de dividendos o recuperaciones de
capital ya invertidos;
(d) adquisicifn de acciones, derechos en empresas u otros valores mobi-
liarios;
(e) contribuciones del usuario en especie o mano de obra;
(f) impuestos;
(g) autom6biles u otros vehiculos no utilitarios;
(h) valores imputados a inversiones ya realizadas;
Ci) maquinaria y equipos usados, y construcci6n o ampliaci6n o
renovaci6n de viviendas; y
(j) adquisici6n de ganado para engorde. a excepci6n de los casos que
taxativamente se enumeran a continuaci6n y en la medida en que el
total del ganado en cuesti6n no exceda de 700 unidades ganaderas:
- productores que transforman sus actividades agricolas en
actividades mixtas agricola-ganaderas y siempre que la adquisici6n
de ganado sea un paso necesario dentro de un programa de
recuperaci6n de suelos incluido en el subproyecto en cuesti6n; y
- productores que tengan un sistema de producci6n mixto agricola-
ganadero, y que incluyan en el subproyecto en cuesti6n un sistema
de rotaci6n de cultivos y praderas.
Articulo 11.  Los IFIs deberin obtener del usuario la documentaci6n ade-
cuada que permita verificar los gastos del subproyecto, en particular aque-
llos que fueran financiados con uno o mis subprestamos. Dicha
documentaci6n debera retenerse hasta que el usuario haya pagado en su
totalidad el subprestamo y estara en todo momento disponible para los
representantes autorizados del BCU y/o del BIRF.



ANNEX I
- 26 -                   Page 5 of 13
Artlculo 12. Los recursos de los subprestamos del BIRr s6lo podran
utilizarse para el pago de bienes y servicios originarios de los palses
miembros del BIRF, Suiza y Taiwan, China.
Terminos y Condiciones de los Subordstamos v Pr6stamos Subsidiarios
Denominacion de los Subor4stamos y de los Prestamos Subsidiarios
Articulo 13. Los subprestamos a los usuarios y los prestamos subsidiarios
a las IFIs estarin denominados y serin pagaderos en moneda nacional de
curso legal en el Uruguay (en delante Nuevo Peso).
Mantenimiento del valor de los subprEstamos
Articulo 14. Las IFIs ajustarin el saldo del capital adeudado en cada
subprestamo para mantener su valor en terminos del indice elegido. El
monto adeudado se ajustara teniendo en cuenta la variaci6n del Indice que
para cada subprestamo acuerden la IFI y el beneficiario dentro de los
t6rminos de este articulo o del articulo 15. Cualquiera de los siguientes
Indices publicados por el BCU podri ser utilizado, asi como cualquier otro
acordado en el futuro entre el BIRF y el BCU y que este 6iltimo notifique a
las IFIs mediante circular relacionada especificamente al Programa:
(a) $ndice de precios de ajuste, canasta lechera;
(b) indice de precios de ajuste, canasta ganadera;
(c) indice de precios de ajuste, canasta agricola-ganadera; y
(d) Indice de precios al consumo (IPC).
Estos Indices serin aplicados de acuerdo a la Circular 9411, hojas 2 y 3,
del BROU de fecha 18 de enero de 1989 o como lo disponga en el futuro el
BCU previa modificaci6n de este Reglamento lo que se efectuara de acuerdo
al Contrato de Prestamo.
Los indices de ajuste por canasta ganadera, lechera y agricola serin de
aplicaci6n exclusiva para los cr6ditos relacionados a esas actividades
Articulo 15. En lugar de los indices previstos en el articulo 14 se podri
utilizar para el ajuste del saldo del capital en cada subprestamo, la evo-
luci6n de la tasa promedio de cambio con el US D6lar, tasa inter-bancaria
tipo vendedor, publicada por el Banco Central, o de aquella tasa que dste
determine para este tipo de operaciones.
Articulo 16.  Cualquiera sea el metodo de ajuste del capital del
subprestamo que se elija, ya sea el del articulo 15 o alguno de los
previstos er el artlculo 14, el mismo se determinara inequivocamente en el
contrato de subprestamo y estari en vigencia al momento de efectuarse el
primer desembolso bajo el subprestamo en cuesti6n. Dicho metodo no podri
variarse hasta que el subprestamo en cuesti6n haya sido amortizado
totalmente.
Articulo 17. El montc aprobado de los subprestamos a ser desembolsados en
mis de una fecha, sera ajustado para mantener su valor constante y asegurar
el financiamiento del subproyecto correspondiente. Para ello, sero
ajustado de acuerdo a la evoluci6n de la tasa de cambio Nuevo Peso/US
D6lar, inter-bancaria tipo vendedor.



ANNEX I
- 27 -                   Page 6 of 13
Mantenimiento de Valor de los Prdstamos Subsidiarios
Articulo 18. Las amortizaciones de cada Pr6stamo Subsidiario por parte de
las IFIs al BCU, bajo el Convenio Subsidiario de Participaci6n en cuesti6n,
se efectuaran manteniendo su valor de acuerdo a los metodos de ajuste que
se apliquen en los subprestamos financiados bajo dicho Convenio de acuerdo
a los articulos 14, 15 y 16 precedentes.
Articulo 19. El monto aprobado de cada Prestamo Subsidiario a ser
desembolsado en mas de una fecha sera ajustado para mantener constante su
valor y asegurar el financiamiento del o de los subprestamos en cqpiftwn.
Para ello sera ajustado de acuerdo a la evoluci6n de la tasa de cambio
Nuevo Peso/US D6lar, inter-bancario tipo vendedor.
Aprobaci6n o Autorisaci6n Previa por Parte del BIRF
Articulo 20. El BCU se cerciorara de que c:laJ IFI le suministre, para su
envio al BIRP pos el BCU, la documentaci6n que, de acuerdo al Articulo 30
de este Reglamento y a las estipulaciones del Contrato de Prestamo, sea
necesario remitir al BIRF para obtener su aprobaci6n del subprdstamo, en
los casos de subprestamos cuyo monto exceda (A) del equivalente de U.S.
D61ares 300,000 para usuarios mencionados en los pirrafos (a) y (b) del
Articulo 7 o (B) del equivalente de U.S. D61ares 500,000 para usuarios
mencionados en el pirrafo (c) de dicho articulo. Si el BCU asi lo
dispusiera y notificara a la IFI eu cuesti6n y al BIRF, BCU podria celebrar
con una o mis IFIs acuerdos complementarios al Convenio Subsidiario de
Participaci6n para que la o las IFIs en cuesti6n remitan directamente al
BIRF la documentaci6n arriba mencionada.
Montos
Articulo 21. La IFI en cuesti6n se cerciorara que la contribuci6n con
fondos propios del usuario al costa del subproyecto sea de, por lo menos,
20Z. En todo caso, el subprestamo estara limitado, como maximo, al 50S del
costo del subproyecto en cuesti6n y el Prestamo Subsidiario financiara
integramente al subprestamo. Las IFIs podrin hacer prestamos
complementarios para financiar parcial o totalmente el remanente (30Z) con
recursos propios y sin derecho a financiamiento bajo Prestamo Subsidiario
alguno.
Tasa de Interes
Articulo 22.
(a)  La tasa anual minima de interes aplicable,a cada Prestamo
Subsidiario sera: (i) para el financiamiento de un subprestamo ^uyo
capital sea ajustado segin el indice del Articulo 15, el promedio
diario proporcionado por el BCU, de la tasa de interds para
dep6sito en d6lares a seis meses vista, del BROU del mes calendario
anterior a la fecha de cada desembolso bajo el contrato de
subprestamo; y (ii) para el financiamiento de un subprestamo cuyo
capital saa ajustado seg4n uno de los Indices del Articulo 14, una
tasa minima de 3? anual. Estas tasas podrin modificarse para
montos no desembolsados, si el MGAP y el BCU asi lo acordaran con
el BIRF y previa notificaci6n del BCU a cada IFI con montos



ANNEX I
- 28 -                   Page 7 of 13
pendientes de desembolso bajo el respectivo Convenio Subsidiario de
Participacifn, con respecto a los subprestamos con periodos de
desembolsos extraordinarios contemplados en el p&rrafo (c) de este
articulo.
(b) La tasa anual de interds aplicable a cada subprestamo sera siempre
de, por lo menos, 2 puAtos porcentuales por oncima de la tasa que
la IFI es cuesti6n deba pagar al BCU para financiar dicho
subpr6stamo bajo el Pr6stamo Subsidiario. El BCU notificara a cada
IFI las variaciones de las tasas aplicables a Prestamos
Subsidiarios, pero dichas variaciones no seran aplicables dentro
del periodo maximo ordinario aplicable a un subprestamo de acuerdo
al parrafo (c) de esto articulo, el que se reputart identico al
plazo de desembolsos bajo el Convenio Subsidiario con respecto al
subprestamo en cuesti6n, siempre que la IFI haya notificado al BCU
la firma del correspondiente Contrato de Subprestamo. No obstante,
ambas tasas podran variar para los desembolsos efectuados en los
periodos extraordinarios a quo se refiere dicho parrafo (c).
(c) Las tasas de interes convenidas para cada subprestamo se aplicartn
a todos los desembolsos efectuados bajo dicho subprdstamo y, por
ende, se especificara on cada Contrato de Subprestamo el periodo
m4ximo dentro del cual se pueden efectuar desembolsos y que no
excedera de seis meses debde la fecha del Contrato de Subprestamo.
Sin embargo, on casos excepcionales en que las inversiones del
subproyecto asi lo requieran, se podrt otorgar periodos de
desembolsos mts largos y la IFI podra estipular que para eso0
periodos mas largos fijan tasas de inter6s diferentes aplicables a
los desembolsos que se efectuen dentro del per$odo ordinario. En
estos casos, el BCU podrd tambi4n hacer variable la tasa aplicable
al Prtstamo Subsidiario correspondiente.
(d) Cada IFI estart facultada a cobrar, como condicin previa al primer
desembolso bajo el Convenio de Subprestamo, una comision de no mas
de It sabre el monto total del subprestamo. Dicha comisi6n no sert
financiable bajo el subprtstamo, ni bajo el Prestamo Subsidiario en
cuestion, y la IPI que la cobrara debera declarar que el pago de
dicha comision no ha sido efectuado por compensaci6n de monto
alguno del subprestamo cuya financiaci6n se requiere bajo dicho
Prestamo Subsidiario.
Vencimiento
Articulo 23. Los plazos de gracia y para la amortizacion de distintos
desembolsos bajo un mismo subprestamo seran unificados y se detenminaran
por la lPl en cada caso considerando, entre otros aspectos, la capacidad de
pago del usuario, la vida dtil de las bienes financiados, y un periodo
prudencial para la comercializacifn de la producci6n. Los pagos de
amortizaci6n del capital de cada subprdstamo sertn anuales, o mas
frecuentes, y en la focha estipulada en el contrato de subprestamo,
debiendo pactarse intereses moratorios para el caso de atrasos en los
pagos. Sin perjuicio de lo anterior, los plazos minimos y mtximos de
amortizaci6n de los subprdstamos quo se concederin para cada tipo de
inversi"  oerAn los siguiontess



ANNEX I
- 29 -                   Page 8 of 13
(a)  cultivos plurianuales, maquinarias, equipos y an3males de trabajo,
hasta siete afios;
(b) animales reproductores y praderas, hasta siete anloss
(c) adecuaci6n de tierras, plantaciones permanentes, que incluyen fru-
tales y bosques, construcciones, obras de riego y drenaje, insta-
laciones agropecuarias, hasta 10 atos,
(d) agro-industrias, almacenamiento, empaque y manejo de productos
agropecuarios, hasta 10 aftos;
(e)  desarrollo forestal, hasta 15 atlos; y
(f) en ning6n caso el plazo de amortizaci6n sera menor a tres antos.
Los plazos de cada Prestamo Subsidiario coincidiran, en la mayor medida
posible, con los del subprestamo en cuesti6n.
Articulo 24. El periodo de gracia para la amortizacion de los subpr6stamos
sera determinadc por la IFI en base al resultado del antlisis de les
ingresos que genere el proyecto, no pudiendo exceder en ning(in caso de los
cinco aflos ni ser menor a un aflo, excepto para plantaciones de eucaliptos y
de pinos en cuyos casos podrAn extenderse a 9 y 12 aflos, respectivamente.
Articulo 25. Los usuarios tendran. el derecho a amortizar anticipadamente,
en forma total o parcial, el saldo de un subprestamo pendiente de pago, tan
solo en la medida en que:
(a) (i) el pago anticipado no ocurra dentro del primer afto del periodo
de gracia para la amortizaci6n del capital del subprestamo; (ii)
el pago anticipado sea considerado un pago a cuenta y sujeto a
reliquidaci6n que se realizara dentro del segundo mes calendario
siguiente al mes en que se produzca el pago a cuenta; (iii) y el
reajuste se efectue de acuerdo al inciso (b) de este articulo;
(b) la reliquidaci6n estipulada en el inciso (a) de este articulo se
efectuara de la siguiente maneras (i) se tomara el Indice
correspondiente al subprestamo en cuesti6n que refleja la variaci6n
de precios (o de tasa de cambio, si el capital del subprestamo
fuera ajustable de acuerdo al Articulo lz) relevantes para dicho
indice durante el mes en que se efectuara el primer desembolso bajo
el subprestamo en cuesti6n y se lo comparara con el mismo indice
que refleje la variaci6n de los preciso (o tasas) durante el mes en
que se efectuara el pago a cuenta; (ii) dicha comparaci6n se
efectuarA de la misma manera en que se efectua toda comparaci6n de
Indices de subprestamos para calcular los montos de capital
pagaderos en cada vencimiento en la salvedad de que sera efectuado
sobre la base de otros indices; y (iii) se compararin (A) los
montos de capital resultantes de la comparacifn correspondientes a
la reliquidacion con (B) los montos de capital pagados con
anticipacion en base al indice del mes aplicable al subpr4stamo
durante el mes en que el pago anticipado es efectuado, y los montos
correspondientes se acreditaran o debitarAn, segfin sea el caso, en
la cuenta del subprestamo;
(c) los subprestamos cuyo capital debiera ajustarse de acuerdo al
indice del inciso (a) del Articulo 14 podran quedar excluidos de lo
dispuesto en los inicios (a) y (b) que anteceden en la medida en
que el correspondiente Contrato de Subprestamo contemple como



ANNEX I
-30 -                    Page 9 of 13
posibilidad normal la de efectuar pagos anticipados mas de seis
veces por aflo para facilitar las amortizaciones del subprestamo a
la IFI en cuesti6n a traves de retenciones por la planta
industrializadora de leche de los haberes del productor a percibir
por la venta de la leche remitida a la planta; y
(d) los incisos (a) y (b) precedentes no seran aplicables cuando se
trate del cumplimiento por parte de los usuarios de la obligaci6n
de cancelar anticipadamente el subpr4stamo pactado en el respectivo
Contrato de Subpr4stamo de acuerdo al Articulo 34 de este
Reglamento, de la mora derivada de incumplimientos de las
obligaciones pactadas en dicho Contrato por parte del usuario; o de
aquellas situaciones en las que el usuario no continue -voluntaria
o forzosamente- el proyecto en que se basa el subprestamo (por
ejemplo sucesi6n, liquidaci6n judicial, enajenaci6n, etc.).
Garantias
Articulo 26. Los subpr6stamos que se otorguen seran garantizados preferen-
temente mediante garantias hipotecarias o prendarias; sin embargo, cuando
las IFIs lo estimen necesario podrtn solicitar, adicionalmente, otros tipos
de garantias inclusive quirografarias de acuerdo con lo establecido en sus
propias reglamentaciones internas. El BCU podra solicitar la cesi6n de
derechos bajo tales garantias y la constituci6n de otras garantias que
considere pertinentes.
Revision de Terminos y Condiciones
Articulo 27. El MGAP y el BCU por una parte y el BIRF por otra, a
solicitud de cualquiera de dichas partes, revisartn las condiciones
establecidas en este Reglamento. De acordar modificaciones, ellas seran
comunicadas por el BCU a cada IFI mediante circular relacionada
especificamente al Programa. Cualquier cambio se aplicara s6lo a nuevos
subprestamos aprobados y a los correspondientes Prestamos Subsidiarios, con
excepci6n de lo establecido en el Articulo 22, inciso (c), respecto de la
tasa de interes aplicable a subprestamos y que BCU trasladart a las IFIs
correspondientes respecto del Prestamo Subsidiario en cuesti6n.
Solicitudes de SubDr4stamos
Articulo 28. Cada solicitud de subprestamo debert ser presentada a la
correspondiente IFI, por el propio interesado en las condiciones
establecidas (formularios habilitados a este efecto), acompafiadas por un
programa de desarrollo tecnica, ecologica, administrativa, financiera y
econ6micamente viable preparado por: (i) tecnicos profesionales privados,
en cuyo caso los honorario de estos podran ser considerados como parte
integrante del costo financiable del subproyecto respectivo dentro del
margen establecido en el Articulo 8; o (ii) La Comision. La IFI debert
hacer saber al interesado que el programa debert procesarse de acuerdo a la
Ley 15939 y se reglamentara si desea acogerse a los beneficios derivados de
dicha ley.



ANNEX I
- 31 -                   Page 10 of 13
Articulo 29. Una vez recibida por la IFI la solicitud de subprestamo para
el financiamiento de un subproyecto, ella procedera a realizar un estudio
de la misma y determinara si esta reune todos los requisitos exigidos por
este Reglamento. Aunque en todo caso la responsabilidad por el analisis
del subproyecto para aprobar su financiamiento sera exclusivamente de la
IFI, en el caso de subprestamos que excedan los limites mencionados en el
Articulo 20 para los distintos tipos de beneficiarios, debera obtenerse la
aprobaci6n previa del subprestamo por parte del BIRF.
Articulo 30. Todos los subproyectos que se financien deberan contar con la
informacion que se especifica en el Anexo A de este Reglamento, ya como
informacion que debera presentarse a la IFI en cuesti6n conjuntamente con
la solicitud de subprdstamo, en particular cuando la aprobaci6n del BIRP
fuera requerida de conformidad con el Articulo 20 de este Reglamento, ya
como informacifn semestral. Sera obligaci6n de la IFI la de suministrar al
BCU toda la informaci6n en cuesti6n y, con tal finalidad, cada IFI debera
tomar todas las medidas necesarias para munirse de ella.
Articulo 31. Ademhs de la informaci6n requerida por el Articulo 30, los
subprestamos con montos iguales o superiores a los limites correspondientes
establecidos en el Articulo 20 deberan proveer una proyecci6n del flujo de
caja del subproyecto en cuesti6n con parimetros que permitan determinar la
tasa financiera de retorno del subproyecto y las posibilidades de
amortizaci6n del subprestamo.
Formalizacifn de lo Subvrdstamos
Articulo 32. Todo subprestamo que sea aprobado por alguna de las IFIs
debera ser formalizado mediante la suscripci6n de los correspondientes
documentos legales, cumpliendose al efecto las normas y procedimientos
establecidos en este Reglamento.
Articulo 33. En el contrato de subprestamo se establecerin, entre otras,
las siguientes disposiciones:
(a) el derecho de la IFI, del BCU y del BIRF a examinar los bienes,
lugares de trabajo y las construcciones incluidas en los subproyec-
tos;
(b) el compromiso del usuario de que los bicnes y servicios que se
financien con los recursos del Proyecto se utilizaran exclusiva-
mente en la ejecuci6n del respectivo subproyecto;
(c) la obligaci6n de proporcionar todas las informaciones que razona-
blemente soliciten la IFI asl como el BCU o el BIRF;
(d) el derecho de la IFI de suspender los desembolsos del subprestamo o
de declarar vencida y exigible de inmediato la deuda contraida bajo
el subprestamo, si el usuario no cumple con las obligaciones
contraidas en el contrato de subprestamo, y el de suspender los
desembolsos bajo el subpr6stamo si los desembolsos bajo el pr6stamo
subsidiario hubieran sido suspendidos;



ANNEX I
- 32 -                   Page 11 of 13
(e) la aceptacidn expresa del usuario de la posible cesi6n de los
derechos bajo las garantlas establecidas a favor de la IFI,
conforme al Articulo 25. a favor del ECU;
(f) el compromiso del usuario de que se tomaran todas las medidas que
sean necesarias para que los contratos de construcciones, asi como
toda compra de bienes para el subproyecto, se haga a un costo razo-
nable que sera, salvo circunstancias excepcionales, el precio mAs
bajo que exista en el mercado, tomando en cuenta factores de
calidad, eficiencia y otros que sean del caso;
(g) el compromiso de llevar los registros contables, financieros y
tecnicos que las IFIs y el BCU establezcan, realizando y ejecutando
el subproyecto con la debida diligencia y de acuerdo con eficientes
normas tecnicas y financieras;
(h) el compromiso de no ceder la deuda adquirida en el uso de los re-
cursos del proyecto, a menos que ello sea expresamente autorizado
por la IFI y el BCU;
Ci) para el caso de bienes importados, el usuario debe asegurar tales
bienes contra siniestro ocurrido durante su transporte, siendo las
eventuales indemnizaciones pagaderas en moneda que permita libre-
monte el reemplazo de tales bienes. Ademas, respecto de todos los
bienes incluidos en el subproyecto, debera mantener durante la
vigencia del prestamo el seguro de dichos bienes con respecto a
riesgos y por los valores que se acostumbre en el comercio y de
acuerdo con las pr6cticas del pais;
Cj) el compromiso del usuario de acatar puntualmente las leyes y
reglamentos dictados con respecto a la conservaci6n y al uso de
recursos naturales y del medio ambiente que tengan relaci6n con los
subproyectos;
(k) que las condiciones y terminos contenidos en el Contrato de PrEsta-
mo prevaleceran sobre lo dispuesto en este Reglamento en caso de
omisi6n o conflicto; y que las disposiciones respectivas de dicho
Contrato de Prestamo se consideran conocidas y aceptadas por el
usuario y parte integrante del contrato de subprestamo respectivo;
(1)  el compromiso del usuario de presentar informaci6n contable y fi-
nanciera de acuerdo a las normas establecidas por las IFIs en
acuerdo con el BCU. especialmente en funci6n de lo establecido en
el Contrato de Prestamo respecto de la auditoria de las cuentas
para gastos del proyecto; y
(m) la expresa declaraci6n del usuario de que ninguno de los bienes,
obras o servicios a ser financiados con el subprestamo ha sido
previamente financiado con fondos de otra fuente o fuentes, cuales-
quiera que ellas sean.



ANNEX I
- 33 -                   Page 1. of 13
Eziaibilidad Anticigada de ls Subyr6stamos
Articulo 34. Los contratos de subprestamos estipularan que lo subpr6sta-
mos otorgados podrin considerarse como de plazo vencido y exigibles de
inmediato, sin perjuicio de otras disposiciones incluidas en otras seccio-
nes de este Reglamento, de ocurrir alguna de las siguientes circunstancias:
(a)  si se comprobara la existencia de falsedad en las informaciones
proporcionadas por el usuario al formular la solicitud de subpres-
tamo y, a menos que la informacion falseada en cuesti6n se
relacionara con la eligibilidad del usuario o con el previo
financiamiento de los bienes, obras y servicios a ser financiados
con el subprestamo, cuando ademas, dicha falsedad afectara
adversamente la ejecuci6n del subproyecto o el servicio de la deuda
contratada bajo el subprestamo;
(b) si el usuario se opusiera a la inspecci6n de, o a otorgar informa-
ci6n sobre, el subproyecto o los bienes dados en garantia a
cualquier hecho susceptible de disminuir su valor o comprometer su
dominio;
(c)  si el usuario no pagara las cuotas sefialadas en el contrato de sub-
prestamo, tanto por concepto de capital como de intereses o comi-
siones, en las fechas en que debiera hacerlo;
(d) si los bienes dados en garantia del subprestamo sufrieran deterioro
de grado tal que no cubran satisfactoriamente la obligaci6n, siem-
pre que el usuario no reponga la garantia disminuida por el dote-
rioro o la refuerce o pague en efectivo una cantidad proporcional
al deterioro de los bienes, dentro del plazo de quince dias conta-
dos desde la fecha de la notificaci6n que, al respecto, le haga la
IFI;
(e) si al usuario se le siguiere un concurso de acreedores, o si se
decretare secuestro o embargr sobre todos sus bienes o sobre una
porci6n de ellos valuados en un monto equivalente al monto no amor-
tizado del subpr6stamo, aunque no se trate de bienes afectados a la
ejecuci6n y/o garantia del subproyecto financiado por el
subprestamo; y
(f) si el usuario faltase a sus obligaciones, tanto en cuanto fueran
estipuladas en el contrato de subprestamo o sefialadas en el
presente Reglamento.
Articulo 35: El usuario que se encuentra en situaci6n de mora respecto de
pagos bajo un subprestamo, o de incumplimiento de las obligaciones de
cualquier contrato de subprestamo, o en otra de las circunstancias del
articulo precedente, perdera su condici6n de usuario elegible para
continuar su participacion en el Programa mientras esta situaci6n persista
y, por consiguiente, de solicitar desembolsos bajo el subprestamo o
subprestamos que hubiera contratado con una o mas IFIs.



ANNEX I
- 34 -                   Page 13 of 13
Canalizacifn de ls Recursos del Provecto a traves de las IFIs
Articulo 36. Para la canalizacidn de los recursos del Proyecto a trav4s de
la rarticipaci6n de las IFIs, se deberan suscribir en cada caso un Convenio
Subsidiario de Participacion conforme al modelo anexo a este Reglamento,
que incluya la aceptacifn expresa de la IFI de las disposiciones de este
Reglamento. En el caso de que dicho Convenlo cubriera mas de un desembolso
bajo el mismo subprestamo, o mhs de un subpr4stamo, la IFI en cuestidn
suscribira, dentro del marco de dicho convenio, una o mAs cartas de adeudo
que vincularan dicho desembolsos o subprestamos con el Prestamo Subsidiario
en cuesti6n de acuerdo al modelo incorporado como anexo B de este
Reglamento.
DisDosiciones Finales
Articulo 37. En caso de omisi6n o conflicto, las condiciones y terminos
contenidos en el Contrato de Prestamo prevaleceran sobre lo dispuesto en
este Reglamento.
September 18, 1989



ANNEX II
- 35 -                 Page 1 of 7
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Comonent: Livestock/CroDDinit
Backaround
1.       Bank support to the agricultural sector of Uruguay has been almost
continuous since 1960; six projects and eight loans have supported the
adoption of improved technology by producers through targeted credit and
technical assistance.  Institutiona' support has been provided to the
Livestock Plan (PLAN), which has provided the extension advice to farmers
and formulated their programs on which subloans have been made by the Bank
of the Republic (BROU).  Major changes have occurred in the agricultural
sector since 1960. In practice, the PLAN has become a very different
organiz&tion sin^e its inception in the late 19509. It has lost much of
its autonomy and become increasingly bureaucratic.  The problem of low
public sector rermuneration has caused severe problems of part-time working
especially among the extensionists in the field.  A changed role for the
PLAN is seen as appropriate.
2.       During the early stages of project preparation, broad agreement
was reached on the need to revitalize the PLAN by changing its legal
structure and its modus oPerandi; a  pubiic non-state, structure, similar
to other successful institutions in the sector (such as SUL, INAC, and the
proposed research body, INIA) would have allowed PLAN to move from the
direct orbit and control of MGAP and become more responsive to the needs of
producers.  Such a change, however, was not politically expedient and PLAN
is expected to continue to function as it has in the immediate past. The
design of the in titutional component for the traditional sub-sector (i.e.,
livestock and crG.pping) has therefore limited the PLAN's participation in
the proposed project, and has drawn on the analysis made in the Bank's
recent Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. 7502-UR).
3.       In practice, the PLAN's business has changed and will continue to
change. In the more intensively-farmed parts of Uruguay (especially the
Litoral), several other sources of technical extension have become
available in the private and semi-private area, including cooperatives, and
are more influential than the PLAN.  The project will encourage the use of
such extensionists. The technology packages promoted by the PLAN have had
only limited success; specific pasture and pasture management research will
be undertaken, and the PLAN will assist in its formulation and
implementation by providing a direct link to the ultimate beneficiaries,
the producers. To provide a strong demonstration effect, especially in the
more extensive farming areas, the PLAN will establish up to 16
demonstration farms, on the basis of existing technology, where other
extensionists and farmers' groups will be able to see results under
commercial conditions. Training has come to be seen as an important issue.
Many farm owners are absentee, and day-to-day operation of the farm (as
distinct from management) is in the hands of the foreman (capataz). The
lack of training and often education at this level is a constraint to the



ANNEX II
- 36 -                   Page 2 of 7
adoption of technology. The PLAN will be responsible for a training
program for foreman-level farm staff. An overseas training program,
combining study and practical farm experience, will be available to a
limited number of young graduates and others, identified as potential farm
leaders.
Demonstration Farms
4.       The purpose of the dermonstration farms is to validate and extend
available farm production technology already adapted to the different
agro-ecological zones and their farming systems. A demonstration farm will
be a commercial farm holding on which the owner agrees to: (a) implement
the appropriate technological package prepared by PLAN; and (b) allow his
farm to be used as a demonstration unit for PLAN to diffuse the technology
to extensionists, agricultural consultants and other farmers.
5.       Four demonstration farm would be located in each agro-ecological
zone, which are to be defined and described by PLAN prior to loan
negotiation. PLAN intends to establish the demonstration livestock farms
in the North, Center and East of Uruguay, which are the traditional
livestock breeding areas; in these areas, ranches typically comprise
extensive grazing on shallow soils, with limited areas of arable soils
suitable for conventional planted pastures. It is widely felt that in
these extensive pasture areas the PLAN's technology has received much less
diffusion than in the mixed cropping/pasture areas of Uruguay.
6.       The farms to be chosen would vary in size, but would be
representative of farms in the agro-ecological zones. The farm should be
located with easy access to facilitate visits. Preference will be given to
farms which are owner-occupied. The age of the selected farmers will vary,
but preference will be given to relatively young farmers (25-50 years of
age). More importantly, the farmer's main source of income and investment
resources must be derived from the farm. The farmer should be involved in
daily decision-making. The farmer should also be a potential (if not
recognized) leader within the local farming community, and should be
capable of keeping and interpreting simple farm records. The criteria and
selection procedures for selecting farms were finalized at loan
negotiation. PLAN would open registration to all farmers in r.n area, and
then make the selection of the farm. A contract establishing the
obligations and responsibilities of PLAN and the farmer would be signed
before establishment of the demonstration farm, and would be valid for six
years.
7.       Each farm would have a detailed farm development plan that would:
(a) describe the farm's initial situation and resource base; (b) diagnose
the main problems facing the farm; and (c) carefully detail the investments
and management to be undertaken. The farm development plan would be drawn
up by PLAN and the farmer. A PLAN technician would be assigned to work
with the farmer in setting up the demonstration farm and would be
responsible for :oordinating study visits by extensionists, consultants,
and other farmeL groups. The objective is to demonstrate the viability of
existing technology under typical commercial conditions. The farmer would,
therefore, manage his own farm but all major investment and managerial
decisions would be discussed with the PLAN technician.



ANNEX I
_ S? _                   Page 3 of 7
8.       Cost estimates are difficult to determine, and depend on the
investment packages to be defined for individual farms.   For the purposes
of appraisal, cost estimates have been based on a ten-year development
program and it has been assumed that half the farms begin the program from
year one, the others being already part-developed and joining the program
in year five. It is assumed that 16 demonstration farms would be
established, commencing at the rate of four per year over a four-year
period. The project would pay 50Z of the investment cost in critical years
of the development prcgram, contributing 23Z of the overall investment in
the program.
Research
9.       The availability of feed for livestock and the highly seasonal
nature of production from natural pastures has long been recognized as the
major constraint to the development of the livestock sub-sector in Uruguay.
Emphasis has been placed for over 30 years on pasture development.
Introduced and adapted technology has become widely adopted in the more
intensively-farmed areas (i.e., the Litoral) but little impact has been
achieved in the extensive, predominantly breeding, areas of the country.
There are significant shortcomings in the available technology throughout
the country. In addition, there has been a marked lack of coordination
between extension (e.g., PLAN) and the research function in the past;
research itself was seriously weakened for over a decade and a half from
the early 19709. Problems in pastures, therefore, have been slow to be
recognized and have not been systematically researched.
10.      The Bank's Agricultural Sector Review placed great emphasis on
problems in pasture technology. Significant efforts have been made to
define the extent of the problems and to propose the appropriate research
effort to resolve them. Pasture studies by a consultant firm (AACM) and
FUCREA, visits by Uruguayan researchers to New Zealand and by New Zealand
consultants to Uruguay have all taken place in the last few years, funded
under the previous loan (Ln. 1831-UR). CIAAB is being revitalized via a
loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (1DB), and legislation is at
an advanced stage to convert agricultural research from an entirely
state-run activity to one in which the private iector (i.e., producers)
will play a major role in defining the research agenda.
11.      The purpose of including a research component in the project is to
ensure that adequate resources are made available to address the specific
problems of pastures, and that a responsive mecharism is established to
address the problems as perceived by producers and articulated through the
PLAN.
12.      The lack of cohesion in the past between research and extension
occurred in spite of their being located within the same ministry, and will
not be resolved simply by the institutional transformation of research.
The component will be implemented by PLAN.



AuN    II
- 38 -                   Page 4 of 7
13.      The research program would concentrate on the following topics:
(a) pasture genetic material;
(b) fertilization;
(c) pasture management and use of pastures;
(d) establishment of extensive pasture improvements;
(e) forage conservation;
(f) feed supplementation;
(g) weed control;
(h) insects and disease problems;
(i) pasture renovation; and
(j) inoculation of Rhizobium.
The detailed research program has yet to be clearly defined. The specific
targets would be set out on a yearly basis.
14.      During appraisal, it became evident that the costs presented to
the mission had been wrongly calculated. The costs of the sub-component,
as well as the details and targets for each area of research, presented
subsequent to the appraisal were be agreed at negotiations.
Trainina and Scholarships
15.      Three main areas of improvement in training will be undertaken
within the institutional sub-component in order to produce a better
informed group of farm operators who can adopt the technology being
introduced. These aret
(a) the training of foreman-level farm staff;
(b) the training of professional farms managers; and
(c) the development of extension skills.
16.      TraininR - Farm Foremeni  The objectives of the sub-component are
to train farm foreman-level farm staff at a basic and practical level in
the technologies to be used and in the simple recording systems necessary
to understand the farm as a business unit, to: (a) improve their own
understanding of the environment within which they work; (b) give owners
more confidence in the ability of the foreman to take decisions; and
(c) make them more receptive and responsive to introduction of different
technologies. The training will be achieved through their participation in
a special course of study undertaken as one day study periods whenever
possible at times of reduced farm activity.
17.      Course development will be critical, as the course must be seen by
farmers as being relevant, dealing with the 'art* as well as the science of
farming. Close liaison will be maintained with organizations that work in
rural areas. A Curriculum Advisory Committee would be established with
members from main sector organizations, includings PLAN, FUCREA, SUL,
CONAPROLE, FRU, ARU and MGAP. PLAN would be responsible for educational
aspects, but would defer to the Advisory Committee concerning the
curriculum.   The curriculum will be developed from a *survey of needs' in
terms of spatial location and knowledge requirements. The underlying
philosophy is to provide basic knowledge of principles appropriate to
farming practices in Uruguay, and therefore to improve the understanding of
why improved practices are adopted. Information transfer, rather than an
ability to analyze, is the key to the proposed course.



ANNEX II
39 -                   Page S of 7
18.      Training - Farm Managers:  The objective of the sub-component is
to train a group of young men about to undertake careers as farm managers
in practical aspects of livestock and cropping enterprises and in the
concept of the whole farm as a business unit. Scholarships will be
provided to undertake a custom-designed program in an appropriate country
(e.g., Australia or New Zealand) where the agricultural environment and
practices are similar to Uruguay. The program will involve a total of
approximately nine months and will include:
(a) living on a farm participating in all activities, working in close
association with the farmer and observing his management
practices; and
(b) undertaking intensive studies for one week every 5-6 weeks
together with the initial and final weeks (total eight weeks) of
the program. Studies will focus on correlation of theoretical and
practical aspects of farming, and the business aspects of the farm
as a commercial enterprise.
19.      Personal characteristics and attitudes will be the major criteria
for selection, in addition to being able to undertake studies at the
post-secondary level in agronomy and economics. The students must be
prepared to undertake manual, repetitive and physically demanding work
vhere necessary. The student must have good English language skills.
Students should also be able to discuss how such an 'apprenticeship" will
benefit them individually and how they would pass knowledge to others. It
is expected that participants would become a stimulus for change through
close contact with extensionists and other farmers. They should also be
able to demonstrate that they intend to undertake a career in farm
management. While returning to live and work on the family farm would not
disqualify people from receiving training, preference would be given to
those who have limited opportunity to be farm managers.
20.      Selection would be on the basis of interviews by a panel drawn
from a range of organizations. Written applications would be required,
giving personal history, a statement of why the applicant wishes to
undertake the training, how he might benefit, and how he would ensure that
others would benefit from his experience upon return. The selection and
supervision committee should include: Ministry of Agriculture; University
of the Republic; PLAN; FUCREA; OPP; Farmers' Organizations. The committee
would be responsible for selection and for supervision through the follow-
up of returning trainees. A small administration secretariat will be
required, mainly to deal with application, selection and necessary
procedures to facilitate travel and follow-up upon return. This would be
through the office currently dealing with sponsored overseas study, which
is located in OPP.
21.      Development of Extension Skills:  The objectives of the
sub-component would be to develop the extension skills and techniques of
agronomists and veterinarians in the public and private sectors who are
involved in the transfer of technical and economic information to farmers.
The objectives will be achieved through a series of intensive short
courses. A foreign consultant would be engaged to develop and initially to
deliver these courses, and also to prepare a group of Uruguayans who will
become the trainers for further courses. The consultant initially would



ANNEX II
- 40 -                   Page 6 of 7oD
work in course development with the trainers selected and present an
intensive course to them in "Training Techniques". During this first
visit, the consultant also would present the first course in 'Extension
Methods" to field technicians. On a second visit, several months later,
the consultant would work together with the trainers to present another
course in "Extension Methods."  He would also advise on the training Skills
exhibited by the trainers and work with them on develop these skills.
Subsequent courses in "Extension Methods" will be presented by the
trainers.  The courses should be presented in a two-step process; in the
first course, a broad approach to the subject would be taken and in a
refresher course, offered two years later, a more in-depth consideration
would apply.
22.      Participants for these courses would be drawn from the full
spectrum of organizations providing agricultural extension services to
farmers.  A small core group, which would be developed as the trainers for
later courses in the series, would center on the extension section of PLAN
together with one or two representatives from each of SUL, CONAPROLE,
FUCREA and MGAP-DE.  This group should not exceed eight persons.  In the
more general training in extension techniques, field staff in MGAP-DE,
CONAPROLE (both agronomists and veterinarians), and SUL, together with
private consultants, would be eligible and encouraged to participate; all
must be actively involved in extension.  It is expected that up to 100
people would participate in the two series of courses (20 per course).
23.      The program would be administered by PLAN through its extension
division. However, for the extension training a Program Committee would be
established with two representatives of PLAN Extension Division and
representatives with similar roles in MGAP, CONAPROLE, SUL, FUCREA.  The
Faculties of Agriculture and Veterinary Science would also be invited to
nominate a representative.  The Committee would select the foreign
consultant and work with him:  (a) to develop a training course syllabus in
terms of needs for extension techniques among field workers; and (b) to
develop the scheduling of a series of courses, so that in a period of five
years all field workers would have participated in a basic and a refresher
course.
ScholarshiDs
24.      The IDB loan for agricultural research (para. 2.13) cannot be used
to finance scholarships to Australia and New Zealand.  Uruguayan scientists
could learn a great deal on specific topics at research stations and
universities located in those two countries, if given the opportunity. The
project would finance seven scholarships to be used in these two countries
to study the following themest
(a) training of agricultural consultants and/or extensionists
(two persons);
(b)  control of Jisease and insect problems in grasses and legumes
(two persons);
(c) renovation of extensive pasture improvement;



ANNEX II
-41 -                    Page 7 of 7
(d) pasture management under intensive sheep breeding; and
(e) farm management techniques for forage conservation for
supplemental winter feeding.
25.      Nominees for the scholarships would be:  CIAAB scientists and PLAN
staff (for categories (a) and (e) of para. 24). The nominations would be
approved jointly by the Director of the DGGTT and by PLAN before becoming
effective. The objective would be to study the subject matter and not
necessarily to obtain a higher degree. Scholarships would be provided for
up to one year.



ANNEX III
-42 -                    Page I of 12
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Institutional ComDonentt Forestry
Background
1.       Natural forest resources in Uruguay for industrial use are almost
non-existent. Natural woodland covering some 400,000 ha is located mostly
along river channels and comprises small and poorly-formed trees of no
industrial use. Beginning in the 19th century, small-scale eucalyptus
plantations were established, to provide fuel for the railways and for
livestock fencing and protection. Later, pines were planted in coastal
areas for protection and recreational use. None of the species used has
shown growth rates or characteristics acceptable for industrial use.
2.       In 1975, planting began of forests based on Pinus elliottii and
taeda, and Eucalyotus Qrandis and saliina, species selected on the basis of
trials begun by the Agronomy Faculty at the University of the Republic in
1958. Approximately 15,000 ha of eucalyptus and 12.000 ha of pine were
planted between 1975-1985. Performance of these commercial plantings has
been very good, in terms of growth and tree form, and constitutes the basis
for present exports and future industrial development. These species have
a rate of growth of approximately 20 m3lha/year for pine and 25 m3/ha/year
for eucalyptus.
3.       The planted forest area is composed of:  (a) several large and
contiguous areas comprising thousand hectares, which include almost all of
the high quality plantations and coastal pine plantations; and (b) a large
number of very small areas, many of less than 1 ha, where most of the slow
growing, poorly formed, old eucalyptus plantations are located.
4.       Vliile Uruguay is a net importer of forest products, in recent
years it has exported fine writing papers and pulpwood. The main use of
wood in Uruguay is for fuel. In the period 1974-1984, in response to the
increases in petroleum prices, fuelwood consumption increased from 1.36 to
2.76 million m3/year. Several estimates of future wood supply have
forecast wood shortages.   The owners of some of the large, high quality
plantations have become accustomed to a lack of demand, which is now being
solved by eucalyptus pulpwood exports. Given the substantial stock of
eucalyptus plantation and some pine, and given the fast growth of forestry
species in Uruguay, there are no valid reasons to forecast wood shortages.
5.       With the exception of one small efficient pulp and paper mill, the
forest industry of Uruguay is composed of very small, antiquated and
inefficient installations. The potential of forestry has not yet been
fully recognized, and consequently industries supply a small domestic
market that until recently was protected. The road, railway and port
infrastructure is adequate for the expansion of forestry activities, though
more efficient organization is required to make the railways and port
competitive to international standards.



ANNEX III
- 43 -                   Page 2 of 12
6.       More than 4.5 million ha of land are suitable for forestry, of
which approximately 2 million ha have been declared to be of forestry
priority. These areas have mainly sandy soils and gentle topography, where
the natural vegetation is almost exclusively grass and small shrubs; all of
these characteristics represent low cost establishment, management and
extraction. Present costs of establishment and exploitation are relatively
high, and can be substantially reduced with better technology.
7.       The forestry potential of Uruguay is only now being recognized,
and consequently there has not been significant interest shown by land
owners in planting forest trees. The quality planted area is not large
enough to support t competitive pulp industry. The small and unstable
domestic market and the lack of experience in Uruguay concerning exports
has created uncertainly among forest owners about the demand for their
products. Others are forecasting shortages of firewood and advocating the
establishment of "energy-forests', which is not considered to be the most
profitable option for the planter-. The low efficiency of the railways,
and the port of Montevideo are also important constraints for forestry
development.
8.       A new forestry law was approved in 1988, the main purpose of which
is to preserve the natural forest and to give incentives to new forestry
establishment in soils of declared forestry priority. The law has already
been regulated, and mechanisms are well defined to provide financial
incentives for commercial tree planting and tax exemptions to forestry
related activities, including forest industries.
Institutional Strena-thenina for Forestry
9.       The main objective of this component of the project is to help
create a critical mass of forest plantations necessary to develop: (a) a
short-fiber pulp industry for export; and (b) the development of a pine saw
mill and CTMP industry, also for export. This critical mass will also
allow the continuation of pulD wood exports and will help the supply of
fuel-wood, directing it to the use of forest residues. The critical mass
has been defined as 100,000 ha of eucalyptus and 60,000 ha of pine, to be
planted over eight years. To help accomplish this, the project will
support three areas of action considered fundamental to motivate forest
owners; (a) to help the development of wood products exports; (b) to help
expedite the implementation of the financial incentive provided under the
forest law; and (c) to provide credit for planting, logging and small
industrial development. The project will also help to lower establishment
and logging costs and to improve the technical and economic knowledge of
forestry through technical assistance, training, and applied research.
10.      Credit:  Establishment of Planted Forest.  Long-term financing to
assist with the establishment of trees will be available to planters who
meet the requirements of the forest law. In summary, these are:
(a) areas to be planted must be of forestry priority, defined as low
productivity agricultural land with acceptable forestry potential:
the Forestry Law Regulations define the soil groups for forestry
priority;



ANNEX III
- 44 -                   Page 3 of 12
(b) trees to be planted must be of comercial values the regulation of
the law defines the relevant species;
(c) a forestation program must be approved by the Direccion Forestal
(DF)s according to the forestry law, planters are entitled to a
financial incentive paid by the government of: (i) 30? of
establishment costs if the planter pays IRA (an agricultural tax
on actual income); or (ii) 50? of the costs if the planter pays
IMAGRO (a land tax, paid on net Imputed income). This incentive
is to be paid approximately one year after planting; the proceeds
will be credited to his loan in those cases where the planter has
taken out credit.
11.      The planting loan will be of a maximum amount equal to the "set
cost^ (costo ficto) of planting; according to the forestry law, this set
cost will be determined each year by the DF. The loan period will be 12
years (9 years' grace) for eucalyptus and 15 years (12 years' grace) for
pine. The incentive is also a proportion of this set cost. Loans will
also apply to fire protection, nursery and planting equipment; these loans
will be directed to entrepreneurs who will provide services to landowners.
12.      Credits  timber extraction and industry.  The most important
incentive for tree planting is the development of an export market for wood
products, since tr,e domestic market is not important enough to consume the
present supply of quality wood. To facilitate the conversion of the
present quality forest resource into exportable products, credit will be
available for the purchase of chainsaws, farming tractors equipped with
cranes and bogies, trucks, front-end loaders and others related to the
production of pulp wood and saw logs. Credit will also be available to
develop middle-size, low-investment sawmills or other primary induotry;
given the amount of resources available during the life of the project,
sawmills are the most probable industrial installations which will be
developed.
13.      Institutional StrenatheninR.  The DF will be responsible for the
implementation of the project. The following institutional strengthening
will be undertaken within the projects
(a) an Executive Division (ED) will be established for the forestry
component, headquartered in Montevideo and headed by an ex-
patriate Technical Director with ample experience in forestation
including fast growing species, plantation management and wood
utilization;
(b) the ED will have three regional offices: (i) Tacuaremb6, to serve
the Rivera - Tacuaremb6 - Durazno area; (ii) Young, to serve the
Paysand%-Rio Negro-Soriano area (these two areas have the largest
concentration of forest priority soils); (iii) Montevideo, to
serve the southern part of the country. The three regional
offices will be staffed with a total of 17 employees. They will
function in rented offices and will be equipped with personal
computers to expedite the paper work. Nine vehicles will be
purchased for eight technicians and the Technical Directorl and



ANNEX II
- 45 -                 Page 4 of 12
(c) strengthening of the present organization to process applications
and to process and control forestation programs and incentives.
Eight employees will be hired, and computer and microfilm
equipment will be purchased.
14.      Technical Assistance and Training.  The Technical Director will be
hired for three years.  Terms of reference shown in Appendix A describe the
functions and qualifications of this job.  Most of the technical assistance
will provided through visits of internationally qualified technicians who
will assess the situation in their fields of expertise and give advice to
planters for improvement, and conduct short courses for local forest
experts. The following subjects have been identified for the technical
assistance program:
(a) nursery techniques for bare and covered root seedlings;
(b) use of herbicides in plantation establishment;
(c) site preparation and planting techniques;
(d)  logging techniques;
(e) maritime freight for wood products;
(f) medium-size sawmill design;
(g) measurement of forest products;
(h) loading and stowing of vessels with wood products;
(i) kiln drying of wood;
(j) economics of sawmilling, slicing and peeling; and
(k) forest fire protection.
15.      Overseas professional visits and training will be undertaken by
local technicians. Staff of the DE will be sent for one month visits to
familiarize themselves with the following subjects:
(a) uses and markets for wood produced from E. grandis:
(b)  forest management of E. arandis and P. taedalelliottii;
(c) agro-forestry;
(d) logging in flat and rolling country;
(e) world markets for forest products; and
(f) economics of the operation of small saw-mills.
A longer period overseas (six months) is designed for practical training in
the following subjectss
(a)  bare- and covered-root nurseries;
(b) site preparation for tree planting;
(c) forest fire protection; and
(d) the preparation of simulation models for stand development.
16.      Applied Research.  To promote forestry on a sound basis, research
must be carried out into several aspects related to stand development and
wood utilization. This applied research will be undertaken by local or
foreign consulting or research institutions. The following subjects have
been identified for research:
(a) development of yield tables for Eucalyptus arandis and
Pinus taedalelliottii based on existing data;
(b) trials of different methods of tree establishment for pine and
eucalyptus;



ANNEX III
- 46 -                   Page 5 of 2
(c)  agro-forestry trials to utilize better the natural grazing
aptitudes of soils where trees will be planted; and
(d) trials on the aptitudes for mechanical conversion of E. Grandis
and pine wood.
17.      The regional offices of the DF will be in charge of promoting tret
planting and administering the incentive scheme provided for under the
forestry law. Land owners will submit applications for Planting Program
Approval in a specified format to the regional office, prepared by a local
independent forestry agronomist. This application will include a map of
the area to be planted, and information about the species, the planting
density, and the calendar for implementing the program. At that time, the
owner will certify the legal ownership of the land and its productivity
index (CONEAT index). The DF will inspect the area and issue a Certificate
of Planting Program Approval. If the owner intends to apply for credit,
the DF will issue a Planting Investment Certificate stating the area to be
planted per year and the maximum amount of loan, equal to the set cost
established by the DF and revised every year. At that time, the owner will
authorize the Fondo Forestal to pay the incentive directly to the lending
bank.
18.      Under Uruguayan conditions, plantation establishment begins in
August with nursery soil preparation and ends in June of the following year
if fall planting is done, or September of the following year, if spring
planting is done. After March of the subsequent year, the owner would
present a surviv. 1 certification of his plantation. The DF will inspect
the plantation and issue a Plantation Certificate, which will initiate the
payment of the incentive by the Fondo Forestal. Pla..ters with Plantation
Certificates would be able to apply for credit to prune their plantations
of pine and eucalyptus. The DF will issue a Pruning Investment Certificate
based on the Plantation Certificate and an inspection of the condition of
the plantation. The Pruning Investment Certificate will be the only
information necessary to apply for pruning loans.
19.      Technical Assistance.  The Technical Director of the DF will take
the initiative to execute the Technical Assistance Programs considered in
the project. In each instance, he and his staff will prepare a Program of
Activities for the specialist. The selection of the specialists will be
made by the Technical Director. Each Program of Activities will include:
fields trips to familiarize the expert with the particular characteristics
of Uruguay, a series of field trips to advise planters and local
technicians related to each Regional Office, at least one conference to be
given to local technicians and land owners, and the issuing of a report
with recommendations which would be printed as a pamphlet. Each specialist
would have one or two counterparts; if necessary, these assistants would be
hired for the purpose, and would be available later as private consultants
to the forestry sector. In the case of local experts going overseas, most
will be DF technicians whose acquired knowledge would improve the project
execution capacity of the institution.
20.      Applied Research.  The Technical Director will take the initiative
to execute the Applied Research Programs. He and his staff will prepare
terms of reference for each Program, which will be published locally; the
executing groups will be selected by the Director of the DF and the



ANNEX III
- 47 -                   Page 6 of 12
Technical Director. If there is no one qualified locally to execute a
given Program, the execution will be offered to qualified foreign research
institutions. To facilitate the Applied Research Programs, most of the TOR
will consider the hiring of the main expert on the field of research
through the Technical Program, and have the local institution or group to
provide the secondary staff and material means.
Estimate of Credit Demand
21.      It is estimated that lQX,OOO ha of eucalyptus will be planted
during eight years, 6,000 ha in the first year, 1',,000 ha in the second
year, and 14,000 ha annually from year three to year eight. The cost for
the first year of establishment of eucalyptus is US$171 per ha. It is
estimated that 60X of the planting will utilize credit. The amount of
credit needed is US$7,385,600 for the first six years of the project. It
is estimated that 60,000 ha of pine will be planted during eight years,
3,000 ha in the first year, 6,000 ha in the second year and 8,500 ha
annually from year three to year eight. The set cost for the first year of
establishment of pine is US$152 per ha. If 601 of the planting utilizes
credit, the credit will amount to US$3,921,600 for the first six years of
the project.
22.      It has been estimated that 802 of the pine plantation will be
pruned and thinned to waste at age four, with a cost of US$50 per ha, and
that 30? of the eucalyptus plantation will also be pruned and thinned to
waste at age three. A second pruning will take place age six for pine and
age five for eucalyptus plantation at a cost of US$25 per ha. According to
this estimate, the pine plantations established in the first four years of
the project would receive first pruning during the life of the project, and
those planted in the first two years would be pruned twice. In the case of
eucalyptus, the plantations of the first five years would be pruned once
and the plantations of the first three years would be pruned twice. Credit
for pruning pine US$732,000 and for pruning eucalyptus amounts to
US$657,000.
22.      In the case of fire protection equipment, a basic set of tools has
been defined to protect 1,000 ha of new planting at an investment value of
US$8,500. A memorandum on forest fire protection (Appendix C of the
Forestry Working Paper) was issued during the appraisal mission. If 602 of
this equipment is purchased with credit, US$600,300 would be needed. In
the case of planting, a basic set of farm tractor, rotary slasher and
planting machine costs US$22,400; an amount of US$1,008,000 would be needed
to buy 602 of the equipment to plant :60,000 ha in 8 years. Logging needs
have been related to exports of 300,000 m3 of pulp-wood per year. A total
of US$737,595 would be needed to buy 60? of inexpensive logging equipment
suitable to the easy conditions of Uruguay.
23.      A basic small bandmill with Rosserhead de-barker, chipper, edger,
trimmer, greenchain, boiler and kilns was defined as appropriate for the
relatively small amount of saw logs to bc produced from the existing
plantations. The investment in one of these units amounts to US$1,025,00.
It is estimated that two out of four sawmills to be built during the life
of the Project would financed with credit.



ANNEX III
- 48 -                   Page 7 of 12
Appendix A
T6rmlnos de Referencia para la Contratacift del
Director TAcnico del Proyecto Forestai
1. Descripci6n General del Cargo.
El Director Tecnico deberA dirigir a un equipo tecnico forestal y
administrativo, integrante de la Direccion Forestal de la ROU (Divisibn
Ejecutora de Proyecto Forestal, DEPF), cuya funci6n es promover la
forestacion con especies de uso industrial, hacer expeditos los tramites
legales e institucionales necesarios para efectuar la forestacion dentro
del marco de incentivos tributarios y pecunarios existentes en el pals para
esta actividad, y administrar un Plan de Asistencia Tdcnica, Capacitaci6n e
Investigacion Aplicada diseflado para transferir Tecnologias Forestales a la
ROU, en Areas de Forestacion, Manejo de Plantaciones y Tecnologia de la
Madera.
2. Tareas especificas del Director TAcaico.
- Planificar v dirigir las tareas anuales de la DEPF.
- Supervigilar en estrecha colaboracifn con el Director Forestal
de la ROU, las acciones de promocion, tramite y control de la actividad
forestadora a realizar por la DEP?.
- Planificar en detalle las acciones de Asistencia Tecnica,
Capacitacion e Investigaci6n Aplicada definidas en el Proyecto.
- Preparar los terminos de referencia para la contrataci6n de
expertos extranjeros que se requieren para llevar a cabo los programas de
Asistencia T4cnica, y participar en su selecci6n.
- Supervigilar y administrar a traves de la DEPF la ejecucifn de
los programas de Asistencia Tecnica y Capacitaci6n.
- Preparar los terminos de referencia de los programas de
Investigaci6n Aplicada, supervigilar las licitaciones mediante las cuales
se seleccionen las entidades que llevaran a cabo la Investigaci6n,
participar en la seleccion y supervigilar la ejecuci6n de los programas de
Investigaci6n.
- Planificar y dirigir la adecuada divulgaci6n de los resultados
de la Asistencia Tecnica e Investigaci6n.
- Promover a traves de la DEPF la formaci6n o ampliaci6n de
Empresas de Servicios Forestales en actividades tales como viveros,
plantaci6n y explotaci6n de bosques.
- Servir de nexo con el BIRF para la revisi6n de los Proyectos
Industriales Forestales de monto superior a US$300.000, que soliciten
credito.



ANNEX III
- 49 -                   Page 8 of 12
- Participar en colaboraci6n con la DF en la elaboracidn de los
informes peri6dicos de avance del Proyecto requerido por el BIRF.
3. Requisitos del Candidato
- Ingeniero Forestal con experiencia no inferior a 10 amos en
operaciones ylo proyectos de implantacion, manejo y utilizaci6n de
plantaciones artificiales de especies forestales de rapido crecimiento. Es
deseable ademAs experiencia en actividades de transferencia tecnol6gica a
nivel internacional.
- Edad limite 50 aftos y salud compatible con trabajos de terreno y
una actividad de intenesa dedicaci6n. Deben tener don de mando y aptitudes
para desenvolverse frente a funcionarios y autoridades de un pals
extranjcro.
- Debe dominar adecuadamente los idiomas espafol e ingles.
4. Condiciones de Contratacifn
- Perlodo 3 aflos.
- Lugar de residencia Montevideo, Repfiblica Oriental del Uruguay.
- Remuneraci6n a nivel de Tecnico Internacional seg6n sue
calificaciones.



ANNEX III
- 50 -                   Page 9 of 12
Arpendix B
MEMORANDUM
FECHA: 23 de febrero de 1989
PARA: Sr. Atilio Ligrone
DE: Hector Lisboa
ASUNTO: Protecci6n Contra Incendios Forestales
En relaci6n a los incendios forestales ocurridos en la zona
costera de la ROU, y como producto de nuestras conversaciones sobre la
materia, mi visita a la zona y de la lectura de algunos articulos de prensa
hago llegar a usted las siguientes sugerencias y comentarios.
His isanresiones sobre el problema
1.       Es necesario distinguir entre las acciones de protecci6r. a idear
pars bosques creados con fines comerciales y para aquellos creados con
fines de protecci6n y/o turisticos. En el primer caso, el propietario es
el primordial interesado en defender su bien de la accion del fuego; es asi
que entiendo no han sucedido incendios de proporciones en las plantaciones
del interior gracias a la actitud de las personas hacia el bosque, a la
existencia de cortafuegos y a las acciones de protecci6n tomadas por los
propietarios. El Proyecto Forestal considera credito para equipaminato de
estos forestadores dentro del esquema de promover agrupaciones de
propietarios para este fin seg6n lo seflala la ley forestal.
El segundo caso corresponde a plantaciones que se establecieron
con fines de protecci6n y con fines turisticos como parece se~. el caso de
toda la zona costera y que corresponde a plantaciones de poco valor desde
el punto de vista de uso industrial, pero de gran valor como fijadores de
dunas y como proveedores de un marco atractivo para el turismo. En este
caso por la distribuci6n de la propiedad y por la condici6n de fin
secundario del bosque, obviamente no existe una conciencia ni acci6n
programada de los propietarios para defender este bien. La consecuencia es
que dadas ciertas condiciones climaticas sucedi6 lo que ha acontecido este
verano. En este caso el dinero de toda la comunidad deberi invertirse a
traves del Estado en salvaguardar estos bosques y por lo tanto es muy
importante que las acciones que programen signifiquen invertir este dinero
en forma 6ptima. La prensa ha dado publicidad a las acciones mis costosas
de protecci6n de incendios forestales como son el uso de aviones cisternas
y helic6pteros para lanzar agua, en circunstancias que es necesario agotar
primero acciones que son mis efectiva3 y mis baratas.
Es importante seffalar que si son los bomberos los sefialados para
realizar esta labor de protecci6n forestal, sero necesario que reciban a
traves de Asistencia Tecnica una acabada instrucci6n sobre esta materia,
que es bastante diferente al combate de incendios urbanos en sus m4todos y



ANNEX III
- 51 -                   Page 10 of 12
en los equipos a utilizar. El combate de incendios forestales consiste on
aislar el fuego mediante la construccion de cortafuegos que normalmente se
hacen en forma manual con gran esfuerzo fisico, situacion vilida hoy para
los paises mis desarrollados; en incendios de proporciones se utilizan
topadoras en esta accion. El aguL como elemento de combate se utiliza para
ayudar a la accion de construir cortafuegos y para la extincifn de un fuego
ya controlado. Una de las acciones mas espectaculares del combate de
incendios forestales es el lanzamiento de combatientes en paracaidas,
justamente para que mediante herramientas manuales que portan sobre si.
puedan construir cortafuegos para aislar la cabeza de un incendio en
lugares inaccesibles por tierra.
Recomendaciones
2.       No es posible improvisar una accion racional para la protecci6n
contra incendios forestales en la Zona Costera de la ROU en lo que queda de
este verano.  Acciones aisladas tales como intensificar la propaganda y
patrullajes aereos en dias de alta peligrosidad son a6n posibles. Lo
importante es crear un sistema de proteccion para la pr6oima temporada,
este sistema debe considerar las siguientes acciones.
Prevencifn. Presumo que la casi totalidad de los incendios son
causados por el hombre y que la ocurrencia de incendios causados por
tormentas electricas no es com6n. Por lo tanto es muy importante educar al
p6blico sobre eats materia como medida central de prevencion. Algunas
acciones a tomar sont
- Letreros a lo largo de toda la zona costers frecuentada por
turistas solicitando su cooperaci6n y senalando la reglamentaci6n existente
sobre uso del fuego.
- Entrega de folletos en las plazas de peaje en la temporada de
riesgo.
- Menci6n rutinaris del indice de peligrosidad de incendios
forestales en los noticiarios diarios de televisi6n y radio.
- Introduccion de este tema en el curriculum escolar cuando se
trate de recursos naturales.
- Debe reglamentarse el uso del fuego en la zona y establecer con
la mayor densidad posible Areas para cocinar, debidamente aisladas.
Presuvresidn.  Son acciones destinadas a evitar que los incendios
adquieran grandes proporciones una vez iniciados. Corresponden aqul
algunas de las siguientes acciones en orden de importancias
- Hacer efectivas las disposiciones legales existentes sobre
cortafuegos en la zona costera. Introducir ademis el concepto de faja
cortacombustible donde no es necesario eliminar los srboles sino que
despejar de todo material combustible bajo el bosque.
- Ubicar una serie de torres de detecci6n de incendios a lo largo
de la zona costera. Estas torres deben estar operativas 8610 durante la
temporada de riesgo. Deben estar comunicadas por radio con los centros de
combate de incendios.



ANNEX III
-52 -                    Page 11 of 12
- Establecer indices de peligrosidad que se basan en las
condiciones meteorol6gicas diarias. En los dias de mayor peligrosidad es
necesario establecer patrullaje adreo de bajo costo (Cessna 150 por
ejemplo) durante las horas de mayor riesgo para detectar o verificar
incendios.
Combate de Incendios. Se bass este en llegar con la mayor
prontitud al lugar del siniestro, aislar el fuego y liquidarlo en seguida
mediante tierra o agua. Al efecto debe establecerse una serie de brigadas
formadas por 6 a 8 individuos de excelente estado fisico y dotados de
vestimenta adecuada para moverse rApidamente dentro del bosque. Las
brigadas deben contar con los siguientes elementos materiales.
- 1 vehiculo de tracciln de 4 ruedas.
- 1 carro remolque con un estanque de unos 500 litros.
- 1 motobomba especializada (la marca mas conocida es Wajax de
Canada que lanza agua a mas de 1 kil6metro de distancia y puede ser
transportada por 1 hombre) con 1200 metros de mangueras etpeciales.
- 1 set de herramientas tales como palas, azadones especiales,
rastrillos especiales, y motosierras.
- Radiocomunicaci6n.
Puede concebirse tambidn que una de las brigadas ubicadas en el
punto central de la zona de riesgo se moviliza en helic6ptero, el cual
normalr.ante se arrienda por la temporada. Este medio puede tambien lanzar
agua como apoyo a su brigada. Tambien es recomendable disponer de algunos
camiones aljibe. de unos 1000 litros de capacidad que trasladan agua para
la motobomba en lugares donde las fuentes de agua sean escasas.
Finalmente, recomiendo que a la brevedad posible la ROU contrate
los servicios de un experto en esta materia para disefiar un plan de acci6n.
Estadoe Unidos, Chile y Australia son paises con experiencia en esta
materia.
Saluda atentamente a usted,
H6ctor Lisioa B.
Consultor BIRF



ANIEE IIM
- 53 -                   Page 12 of 12
ApDendix C
Condiciones de Crddito uara Forestaci$n
- Se otorga a quienes tengan aprobado un Plan de Forestacifn por
la Direcci6n Forestal (DF). Los creditos se otorgan para programas
anuales.
- La DF emite un certificado de Plan de Forestacion que indica la
superficie a forestar, el affo para el cual se solicits el credito y el
monto mwixmo del credito, el cual corresponde al costo ficto de
forestaci6n.
- El incentivo en dinero a percibir por el forestador, se debe
abonar al saldo del cr6dito en el momento que se percibe dicho incentivo.
En el momento en que el prestatario recibe certificado para credito de
parte de la DF, debe emitir una declaracion jurada ante Notario, mediante
la cual autoriza al Fondo Forestal a pagar directamente al Banco el
incentivo a que se haga acreedor por la forestacion a efectuar el aflo en
referencia.
- El plazo del prestamo sert de 12 asos para forestaciones con
eucalipto y 15 sfbos para forestaciones con pino. El periodo de gracis sera
de 9 afsos para eucalipto y 12 afos para pino. El periodo de amortizaci$n
sera de tres asos para ambas especies.
- El prestamo se indesara seg6n IPC. Los intereses se pagarin
cada afLo.
- Dado que la rentabilidad de la forestacion con pino y eucalipto
en la ROU es una hip6tesis planteada a nivel nacional y expresada en los
modelos desarrollados en el documento del proyecto, se considera quo no es
necesario que el prestatario presente al Banco un Proyecto de Inversion
financiero, sino que se basta el certificado de la DF.
- La plantacion que se va a efectuar puede ser garantia suficiente
para el pr4stamo a traves de la prenda forestal a constituir sobre esta.
El documento que apruebe el pago del incentivo servira como certificado de
la superficie forestada exitosamente que se dart en prenda. Hientras la
forestacifn no este efectuada, el banco podra solicitar otras garantias.
El banco puede exigir quo se contrate un seguro contra incendios cada aUo
por un monto maximo exigible igual al valor del saldo del credito con sus
intereses.



ANEX IV
~ 54 -                 Page I of 12
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Components Non-Traditional A ricultural Exports
Background
1.       Diversification in Uruguay's agricultural exports over the past
twenty years has added rice, malting barley, citrus and dairy produce to
the traditional mainstays of beef and wool. Smaller quantities of fruit,
vegetables and other processed products have been exported to neighboring
countries. A modest flow has begun of high quality products to European
markets, and the counter-season advantage of southern hemisphere production
is attracting private sector interest. Production is being slowly upgraded
to meet the stringent standards of northern hemisphere markets, and
significant under-utilized land are available.
2.       The smallholder sector produces 202 of agriculture's contribution
to GDP, occupies only 22 of the land devoted to agriculture, and employs
25Z of the rural work force. Most production is carried out on holdings of
between 1-50 ha, close to the major urban centers, especially Montevideo.
Production technology and post-harvesting practices are traditional and are
mainly defined by the undemanding local market. Low incomes, small farm
size and uncertain markets have constrained development and hindered
technological advance. Until economic liberalization began in the 19709,
domestic production was strongly protected and there was considerable
Government intervention via establishment of maximum prices or
authorization of duty-free imports to control price rises in items of
popular consumption. Liberalization has been accompanied by an increased
uncertainty and the number of smaller farms (i.e., up to 50 ha) decreased
by 402 between 1970 and 1986.
3.       The expantion of fruit, and vegetable production faces severe
limitations posed by the small local market. The production of non-
traditional agricultural export (NTAE) products is not limited to
smallholders, and recent new entrants are planning on production on a large
scale with some involvement of smallholders. A form of structural change
is required; the orientation of production to export markets through the
use of new technology (e.g., irrigation, modern cropping management) and
new varieties represents a new culture of production. Severe limitations
exist with respect to knowledge of overseas markets and appropriate
technology packages.
4.       The experience gained by the citrus industry provides a number of
useful examples which can be emulated by other producers. The expansion in
citrus production has been oriented towards the northern hemisphere markets
and has received strong government support, particularly via tax
incentives. Modern production and post-harvest technology, including agro-
industry, were brought in via foreign technical assistance.
5.       No specific public institutions exist to support or promote NTAEs,



ANIEK IV
- S5 -                   Page 2 of 12
been instrumental in introducing new technology and improving marketing.
Other institutions within MGAP exist to support smallholder producers; the
Plan Granjero (CHPG) promotes production and seeks to improve the well-
being of the farmers and their families, assisted by the Agro-industrial
Support Unit (UAPAG), but neither is specifically export-oriented. The
External Trade Directorate (COEX) of MEF is involved in the negotiation of
trade treaties and provides assistance and information to exporters in
general. Agricultural research for supporting NTAEs has been very limited.
6.       The private sector lacks both knoivled£e and experience to deal
effectively with the issues involved in exporting. A new production and
export marketing culture has to be developed. Public support for this
cannot be achieved via existing institutions and mechanisms must be
provided to assist the pLivate sector in solving its own problems.
Prosram of Assistance and Promotion of NTAEs
7.       For the purposes of the project, non-traditional agricultural
exports (NTAEs) will include fruit, horticultural, agro-industrial and
small livestock products from the smallholder (sraniero) sector, as well as
other innovatively processed items including meat, dairy and forest
industry products.
8.       The program has been designed to encourage potential and actual
exporters to take sound, programmed actions, aimed at placing non-
traditional agricultural and agro-industrial products in overseas markets.
Two subcomponents have been designed: (a) an Export Awareness Sub-
Component, designed to bring specialized expertise to groups to exporters,
concerning production, post-harvest practices, processing and marketing;
and (b) a Risk Fund for the Promotion of Non-Traditional Agricultural
Exports to finance critical actions of exporters designed to gain external
market access for specific non-traditional agricultural products.
Exporters will be publicly invited to participate with proposals, to be
selected according to their technical soundness, operational capability of
the entity seeking assistance, and number of direct beneficiaries involved.
9.       A Coordinating Unit for the Promotion of NTAEs, to be created by
Presidential Decree, will be responsible for the execution of the program.
It will function in MGAP and be presided over by an MGAP representative.
The Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) and COEX/MEF will participate, with
one representative each. The Coordinating Unit will be supported by a
small Technical Secretariat, comprising a Director, two qualified
professionals, one administrative officer and one secretary.
10.      The Subcomponent of Export Awareness will bring specialized
expertise, targeted to groups of exporters with common interests in issues
concerning their external markets, processing, post-harvest, plant
varieties and cropping in specific export fruits, vegetables and other
graniero products. The subcomponent will include:
(a) group visits (up to 10 exporters, for one week) to overseas
marketing hubs, allowing exporters to appreciate quality
standards, receiving facilities, storage and handling,



ANNU IV
- 56 -                    Page 3 of 12
presentation of produce at retail outlets, price ranges and
margins, operational procedures of importers, and to make the
first commercial contacts with receivers;
(b) group visits by exporters or their technical advisors to overseas
production areas (10 to 15 exporters and technicians, for ten
days), to gain experience on variety performance, cropping
techniques and management, post-harvest management and processing;
(c) local technical field trips (10 to 20 growers, exporters or
technical advisors, for one to three days), involving short-term
consultants, to deal with specific crop management matters, pests
and diseases, post-harvest management, processing and other
problems; and
(a) short seminars and talks (20 to 30 participants, for threes days
to one week), on issues such as external marketing, shipping,
packing, post-harvest treatment, varieties and quality standarcs,
toxic residues and phyto-sanitary standards for Ppecific products
or groups of related products.
An ad-hoc technical document presenting background information, operational
issues, and a related biliographical list will be prepared and distributed
for each of the above events. Participants will be charged for a
proportion of the cost of the event. The beneficiaries of the subcomponent
will include exporters, growers, processors and technicians presently
engaged in the export business, or planning to invest in export-oriented
projects.
11.      The Technical Secretariat will prepare an Annual Operating Plan
for the events and submit it for approval to the Coordinating Unit. A copy
of the approved Operating Plan will be sent to the World Bank in October of
each year. Execution will be carried out through force account by the
Technical Secretariat or by contracting service companies to organize an
event, including all arrangements to hire consultants and publishing the
corresponding technical document. The progress of the subcomponent will be
assessed through the following indicators; number of events by type,
product and field of issues involved; number of participants in each event
and capacity of participation, (e.g., potential or actual exporter,
technician, etc.); list of documents published, distributed and destination
of same.
12.      The Risk Fund for the Promotion of NTAEs will finance, on a non-
reimbursable basis, 50Z of the direct costs of eligible risk-involving
actions of exporters attempting to explore and gain external market access
for specific NTAEs. The fund will commit resources to support a set of
critical actions proposed by the exporters in an 'export project,
containing sound, programmed, market-related steps, aimed at setting up a
commercial flow of export products. An export project will be considered
successfully completed upon arrival of the first commercial shipment. The
fund's contribution will be limited to US$25,000 in any one export project.
Fund financing will be restricted to one or a set of eligible actions
encompassing a maximum period of 24 months within the time-frame of a
selected export project. The period will be computed from the date of the
first disbursement,



- 57 -                    Page 4 of 12
13.      Actions generating knowledge, familiarization and experience with
overseas markets, including those allowing exporters to assess production,
processing and transport feasibility on a small, non-commercial si.ale, will
be eligible for financing. Fund financing will includes
(a) market studies, oriented to identifying in-season product niches,
required qualities and mixes, alternative destination points,
appropriate marketing channels, reliable importers, competitive
suppliers, probable price ranges and profit margins, and long-term
demand proapects for the product in question;
(b) preparation and shipment of samples to interested overseas
receivers;
Cc) pilot shipments allowing assessment of transit problems and
condition of arrival of fresh or processed products;
td) market-testing in one or several destination areas, including
promotion expenses;
Ce) monitoring of first commercial shipments, including travel
expenses of exporters to watch condition of arrival; and
(f) participation in specialized overseas commercial fairs, with the
purpose of closing business deals.
The fund will also be used, once satisfactory market knowledge has been
achieved, for:
Cg) setting up small pilot cropping plots, to assess production
feasibility, yields, qualities or harvesting dates of promising
varieties or to allow exporters to ship their first samples;
(h)  post-harvest and processing testing, to identify the most suitable
means of product handling when producing on a commercial scale.
14.      The fund will benefit exporters of graniero, dairy, beef, mutton,
fish and wood products, which qualify as NTAEs (as defined in Appendix A).
A minimum of 90o  of the fund resources will be allocated to non-traditional
araniero export projects.  Financing will be made available to selected
projects of individual or associated business firms, or any grouping with
juridical standing ('personeria juridica"), representing directly either
potential or actual exporters.
15.      The Coordinating Unit will organize three annual public
invitations for eligible organizations to participate with export project
proposals.  Invitations will be publicized three months before the deadline
set for the presentation of proposals to the Technical Secretariat.  A set
of documents, including guidelines, will be available to exporters on the
date of publication.  These documents will contain, amongst other things:
description and operational regulations of the fund; definition of an
export project; facsimile of required presentation format of the proposal;
eligibility criteria for actions to be considered; and selection criteria
to be applied. World Bank approval of the set of documents will be
required before each invitation process is initiated.



ANNEX IV
-58 -                     Page S of 12
16.      The Technical Secretariat will assist exporters in preparing
proposals. Final versions are to be submitted by exporters in sealed
envelopes, to be opened on the date and time publicized in the invitation.
After processing the proposals, the Technical Secretariat will present the
Coordinating Unit with a ranked list of the eligible export projects,
indicating the actions eligible for financing and their revised budgeted
cost. Ranking will be based on a scoring system which will consider, with
equal weight:
(a) the technical soundness end effectiveness of the proposed actions;
(b) the operational capability of the proponent(s), as judged bys
past internal or overseas sales performance, production
experience, organizational ability to implement the export
project, and past performance in this or other public-funded
projects; and
tc) the number of direct beneficiaries who will contribute to the
costs and have access to the results of the export project.
The Coordinating Unit will be responsible for the final selection of the
export projects to be financed and will communicate through the Technical
Secretariat the results of the process to all applicants. An execution
contract will be signed between MGAP and the beneficiary. The contracting
procedure described above will be formalized as an Annex to the Loan
Agreement.
17.      The following operational regulations will be observed for fund
operation:
Ca)  exporters will be allowed to submit one single proposal for each
invitation to participate. The export project may involve one
single product, or a group of market- or production-related
products;
(b) exporters will be entitled to submit further proposals to
forthcoming invitations, provided: (i) they have completed all
actions eligible for disbursement of a project financed by the
fund; (ii) their new proposals are not related with the same
product or group of products financed earlier by the fund;
(c)  to allow for flexibility, exporters may apply for changes in
planned eligible actions during the implementation of export
project. Such changes would not exceed 20Z of the original total
fund financing commitment to the project, nor surpass the limit of
US$25,000. The Technical Secretariat will be responsible for
approval of the proposed changes. Changes will not be permitted
in the target product or group of products;
(d). 5OZ of the budgeted costs for each eligible action, as originally
approved upon selection or as modified through approved changes,
is the maximum to be disbursed by the fund, independently of the
actual resulting cost of the action for the exporter. Positive
balances between budgeted and actual costs from one eligible
action cannot be applied towards financing budgetary deficits of
other actions in the same or other export projects;



Page 6 of 12
(e) disbursements for eligible actions will be made by the fund only
once they have been carried out by the exporter and acceptable
technical and expense evidence presented to the Technical
Secretariat; and
(f) eligible actions resulting in findings compromising the successful
achievement of the export project objectives may cause suspension
of the disbursements for the rest of the ensuing actions.
18.      Progress in the execution of this subcomponent will be indicated
by the number of applications for fund financing processed by the
Coordinating Unit; number of beneficiaries involved; nature and number of
export products involved; nature, number of evolution of financed actions;
and materialization of commercial shipments (products, FOB value) as a
consequence of same.
Institutional and Administrative Aspects
19.      The Coordinatina Unit for the promotion of NTAEs, to be created
through a Presidential Decree, will be responsible for the execution of the
program. The draft decree is presented as Appendix B. The unit will:
(a) revise and approve the annual operating plans for the Subcomponent
of Export Awareness (SEA);
(b) revise and approve the set of documents providing guidelines to be
followed by entities seeking assistance from the fund and submit a
set for V'-ld Bank approval;
(c) select periodically the export projects to be financed by the
fund, according to the established procedure; and
(d) expedite the recommendations of the Technical Secretariat
regarding the suspension of disbursements to export projects.
20.      The Coordinating Unit will be supported by a small Technical
Secretariat in executing the two sub-components of the program. An
internationally recruited Director will head the Secretariat, staffed with
two qualified professionals, one administrative officer and one secretarial
clerk. Tentative job descriptions and required qualifications for the
Director and the two professionals are outlined in Appendix C. The
administrative officer, a qualified accountant, will be in charge of
budgetary execution and control, program procurement and disbursements
associated with the implementation of both the Export Awareness Sub-
Component and the Fund.



60 -                   Page 7 of 12
DRAFT DECREE CREATIS TM COORDIRATING WIT
FOR THE PROMOTION OF RON-TRADITIONAL
AGRICULTIURAL EXPORTS
HINISTERIO DE GANADERIA, AGRICULTURA Y PESCA
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FI ARZAS
Montevideo,
VISTO: El interds del Poder Ejecutivo en incentivar la exportacion de los
productos de granja y otros agrlcolas no tradicionales, como ferma de
lograr el desarrollo do estas actividades en el sector.
CONSIDERANDO: I) Que con tal finalidad so instrumentarA un programs de
Apoyo T4cnico y Promocion orientado a facilitar el acceso a mercados
externos de lo productos agricolas no-tradicionales especificados on el
Articulo 8°.
II. Que resulta necesarlo coordinar las iniciativas, acciones
y recursos tanto estatales como privados a fin de identificar, evaluar y
promover aquellos programas que tiendan al desarrollo de las exportaciones
del Sector Granjero y sus sub-sectores.
III. Que a tales efectos results conveniente crear una Unidad
Coordinadora en la 6rbita del Ministerio de Ganaderia, Agricultura y Pesca.
ATENTOt A lo expuesto precedentemente
EL PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA
DECRETA
ARTICULO 10s Crease la Unidad Coordinadora para la Promociln de
Exportaciones de Productos no-Tradicionales en el Sector Granjero. La
misma estars integrada por los siguientes representantes y sue tespectivos
alternos, de cada uno de los siguientes organismos que a continusci6n se
detallan: doe del Ministerio de Ganaderia, Agriculture y Pesca (uno de
ellos la presidirs y otro pertenecers al Plan Granjero); uno de la Oficina
de Planeamiento y Presupuesto y otro del Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
(Direcci$n General de Comercio Exterior).
ARTICULO 20: La Unidad Coordinadora funcionara en la 6rbita del Ministerio
de Ganaderia, Agricultura y Peaca, el que le proporcionart el local, la
infraestructura y los recursos necesarios pars el normal desenvolvimiento
de las labores asignadas.
ARTICULO 30t Sue cometidos seran los siguientess
a) procesar y someter a consideraciln del Poder Ejecutivo los
objetivos a alcanzar, y las estrategias a aplicar, los planes y programas a
cumplir, los proyectos a impulssr y las acciones a ejecutars



ANMU IV
- 61 -                    Page 8 of 12
b)  recoger iniciativas pG1blicas y privadas coincidentes con sus
objetivos, orientadas a impulsar las acciones necesarias para su
ef&i Avizaci6n;
c) asesorar en materia de cooperacion tecnica y de la aplicacion de
los fondos destinados al apoyo y promoci6n de exportaciones agricolas no-
tradicionales;
d) asesorar en las asignaciones de recursos destinados al apoyo y
promocion de las exportaciones agroindustriales no tradicionales de
conformidad a los mecanismos de financiamiento;
e) participar en el proceso de invitaciones p6blicas a participar a
empresas priva.das interesadas en el apoyo a las exportaciones agricolas no
tradicionales;
f)  efectuar peri6dicamente la seleccion de las propuestas presentadas
para su aprobaci6n por el Ministro;
g) realizar el proceso de seguimiento de las acciones financiadas y
dar aprobaci6n a los desembolsos comprometidos para las mismas;
ARTICULO 40°  La Unidad Coordinadora contara con una Secretaria Tecnica, la
que tendri las siguientes funciones;
a)  preparar, para consideracion de la Unidad Coordinadora, Planes
Anuales Operativos para la ejecuci6n de programas destinados al apoyo y
promocion de exportaciones agricolas no-tradicionales;
b)  ejecutar directamente dichos programas o coordinar su ejecuci6n por
terceros del sector pdblico o privado;
c)  asistir a la Unidad Coordinadora en el proceso de preparacion de
invitaciones p6blicas a participar a empresas privadas interesadas en el
apoyo a las exportaciones agricolas no tradicionales;
d)  dar apoyo tecnico a las empresas en la preparacion de propuestas
que las mismas desearan presentar a las invitaciones p6blicas a participar;
e)  asistir a la Unidad Coordinadora en el analisis y selecci6n de
propuestas presentadas;
f)  asistir a la Unidad Coordinadora en la realizacion del proceso de
seguimiento de las acciones financiadas;
g)  autorizar cambios de acciones durante la ejecuci6n de las
propuestas seleccionadas, en la medida en que los mismos no afecten los
objetivos de la propuesta;
h) analizar y recomendar cursos de accion a seguir respecto de los
desembolsos de recursos comprometidos en las acciones de las empresas
ejecutantes.



ANNEX IV
- 62 -                   Page 9 of 12
ARTICULO 50: La Secretarla T6cnica estara dirigida por un Secretario
Tecnico designado a propuesta del Ministerio de Ganaderia, Agricultura y
Pesca en acuerdo con los demas organismos que integran la Unidad
Coordinadora.
ARTICULO 60:     Para el cumplimiento de sus cometidos la Unidad
Coordinadora podra requerir la colaboraci6n y asesoramiento de otros
organismos nacionales y departamentos cuyo concurso sea necesario.
ARTICULO 70:     Seran recursos de la Unidad Coordinadora los provenientes
de afsctaciones legales con tal fin, donaciones o financiamiento externo.
ARTICULO 80°     Para los efectos de los objetivos a alcanzar, las
estrategias a aplicar. los planes y programas a cumplir, los proyectos a
impulsar y las acciones a ejecutar, se considerarAn como productos
agricolas de exportaci6n no-tradicional a aquellos no contenidos en la
siguiente lista:
(LISTA DE PRODUCTOS AGRICOLAS TRADICIONALES)
ARTICULO 90:     Commiquese, publiquese, etc.



- 63 -                   Page 10 of 12
JOB DISCRIPION AND IUALIFICATIONS FOR T8L
PROFeSSIONAL STAFF OF TRE TECHNICAL SKCRtARIAT
Position: Director
Job Descrintiont
The Director will be responsible for the implementation of both
the Export Awareness Subprogram and the Risk Fund for the Promotion of Non-
Traditional Agricultural Exports. He is expected to play a major role ins
(a) orienting and assisting exporters seeking assistance; (b) designing
appropriate, business-oriented, export promotion activities; and
(c) generating a substantial flow of sound Export Projecta eligible for
Risk Fund financing.
Amongst others, his functions will include:
Ca) Preparation of the Annual Operating Plans for the Subcomponent of
Export Awareness (SEA);
(b) Implementation of the program of events, as approved in the Annual
Operating Plans for the SEA by the Coordinating Unit, either
through force account or through contracting services companies;
(c) Monitoring the implementation of the SEA;
'd) Carrying out the process of publicly inviting exporters to
participate with proposals for fund financing;
Ce) Assisting exporters seeking assistance from the fund in the
preparation of their proposals;
(f) Processing and ranking the Export Projects according to selection
criteria, for submission to the Coordinating Unit;
(g)  Preparation of Execution Contracts between MGAP and organizations
selected for fund financing;
(h) Authorizing changes in eligible actions, as requested by
exporters;
(i) Analyzing the outcome of eligible actions carried out by exporters
and technical approval for disbursement;
(j) Recommending to the Coordinating Unit the suspension of
reimbursements to failing Export Projects; and
(k) Monitoring the execution of the Sub-Component.
The position will be held by an internationally-recruited
professional for three years. After this period, it is expected that a
properly trained and experienced local technician will be nominated to
carry on for the rest of the five year operational period of the Program.



ANNE IV
- 64 -                   Page 11 of 12
Qualifications:                        r
The position requires a qualified professional with a degree in
business administration, agricultural economics or similar. It is
indispensable for the candidate to be experienced in the fruit and
vegetable export or import business and to be fluent in Spanish and
English. A minimum of four years in positions related to agricultural or
agro-industrial product marketing is required. Business experience in or
with Latin American countries would be desirable.
An effective management capability is needed from the candidate,
for him to carry through activities involving innovating design and
organization of multiple field actions--both local and overseas--and direct
advising to exporters. The ability to communicate easily on technical and
business subject matters with local entrepreneurs and public officers at
the highest levels is necessary for the position. As functions involve
actions aimed at bringing in foreign expertise and at establishing overseas
operational links by exporters, the candidate must be able to develop
active working relationships with foreign applied research institutes,
specialized consultants and business firms.
Position:  Local Professional I
Job DescriDtion:
Functions involve activities related to the implementation of the
Export Awareness Subcomponent. Duties include: (a) contribution to the
preparation of Annual Operating P'Lans; (b) organization and logistics of
the activities, including promotion, targeting and registration of
participants; (c) preparation of terms of reference for consultants and for
contracting service companies to organize events; and (d) following up of
participants and keeping record of monitoring indicators.
Qualifications:
The position requires a young, full-time qualiiied professional
with a degree in agricultural economics. Wide knowledge of the Uruguayan
agricultural sector and a working relationship with the farming and
exporting community are necessary. The candidate should have some
experience associated with exporting, and must be fluent in written and
spoken English.  Contacts with academic and technological centers, as well
as with consultants and business firms abroad, are desirable.
A capacity to organize field activities and independently solve
associated operational problems are required to effectively perfo, his
functions.
Positions Local Professional II



NNEX IV
- 65 -                   Page 12 of 12
Job Descriptions
Functions for this position involve implementation of activities
related to the operation of the Fund. Assistance to the Director will be
provided in: (a) carrying out the process of publicly inviting exporters
to participate with proposals for Fund financing; (b) processing the Export
Projects submitted for financing, preparing Execution Contracts between
MGAP and organizations selected for fund financing; (c) analyzing the
outcome of eligible actions carried out by exporters, analyzing expense
claims in disbursement requests and monitoring the execution of the
Subcomponent.
Qualifications:
The position requires a young, full-time qualified professional
with a degree in business administration or agricultural economics.
Knowledge of the Uruguayan agricultural sector and sound communication with
local producing and exporting firms are necessary. The candidate should be
business-oriented and have at least two years of experience associated with
exporting. His background and experience should allow him to relate
technically with exporters, as regards their proposals and eligibility for
financing by the fund. Fluently spoken English is required.



-66-                                                          _m.
SFate         C4al6l        l_  _Sn        TtIPaeTl
Prjc                                    ..t .et  _ s.l Io) Sc.1,e.   re,                                   est    l
FDesT U~N
(Loan 24-)    12/2/1960    6/80/196            7.0             11.1            she"  nd Deft Cattle:;          Ze.od asswr. Sed
Llvestock/Cropping; and        Fertilizer, FencIfg
Oairy ttar_.  GMtoal,          Mete Points. b,lndIng
of shick   0 am uld be         flterials (ee.,  arde)
flnanced.                      llainery for Fnrune
bcklnefry for Contractors
Techniald    ln
Troaing
rJ0
(LeAn 4074*r    12l/qg16      6/80/1970        12.7            68.0            beo an  sef Cattle Farm.   A. ebow. plus Livestock
8.600 total, of akich          Porcheas.
2.600 wold bu finaned.
(Loan 6-43')   2/11/1971      6/80/198         01.8            18.1            Sha and neef Cattle Farm.   As above.
First Tranchc                                                                  Up to 8.000 total, of Which
about 2.000  v slriedy hve
earllr Plan lvolvea_t under
the First or Second Projects.
(LO* 778-8      10/8/171    18W1972            4.0             6.8
~RltI Ult6
(Lon 616-)   6/18/1972        8/18/1974        U.2             I5?       e-       e  ad  ef Cattle, Dary.   s abovt plue Dairy, Beef
Befd Pork Prodution IhIto. and, Pk  productIoP
lp to a total of *oe 7.80      Seed Production end
(Loan 9404*)    1/22/1974     8/0/1977         18.5                            eubloae (a_an  epetd to         Pr.ceelng.
be reeeter ub leon taken out
under the PLAN).
mr
(Loan 116-4*)   2/18/1976     0/18/191         1.0             80.4            she" and Bee Cattle; and        An above (waif the exception
Obi i Fa. *  to 8.4t0          of Pork Producten).
aubles inteluding
repeaters.
(Loan 11U-t   6/21/1960        2/81/19         94.0            111.0             e   en  Bef Cattle; LIve-   As above, Including Feeder
atock/Croln4; end Dairy        R"de.
Farm. lb to 6.6010 oubloan
_ncluding  so r eptri.



ANNEX VI
- 67 -                    Page l-of 4
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Investment Models
Introduction
1.       The project would provide long-term credit to finance part of
investment in farm development, in the provision of contractors' services,
and in agro-industrial processing. Many of these investments would be
associated with improved technology from existing packages and from the
results of agricultural research, both that funded under the project and
that from the expanded research program under the IDB loan. Improved
technology will be important under the three main components promoted via
institutional support and technical assistance.
2.       To analyze the technical and financial impact of expected
investments and technological improvements, ten investment plans have been
modelled as illustrative of the probable investments under the project.
Costs and revenues are based on actual farm-gate prices. Bank price
projections indicate only modest increases in the real price of beef and
citrus, stable prices for timber, and declining real prices for grains
(which are not expected to be important products under the project). With
these price assumptions, the internal financial rates of return of the
models lie in the range of 14: and 47Z.
3.       Brief descriptions of the ten models and results of the financial
analysis are presented below. More detailed data is available in the
Technical File. In Uruguay, all landholdings are classified in terms of
their unimproved productive capability in beef and wool, according to the
CONEAT index, 100 being average quality land.
Models
4.       Model No. l  Sheen and Cattle Ranch (800/ha).  The ranch is on
land of average quality (CONEAT index 100), and bhs 13 fenced paddocks that
total 725 ha of natural pasture, 48 ha of over-sown pasture, 16 ha of
planted leys, 4 ha of annual forage crops and 7 ha of trees. The ranch
operates the Ociclo completo- system (i.e., it breeds and fattens both
cattle and sheep) and carries a total of 616 livestock units (LU), one
livestock unit being equivalent to an adult bovine or five adult sheep.
The breeding coefficients assumed are average for Uruguay. These are:
(a) for cattle breeding rate, 69X; mortality rate, 4Z for calves and 32 for
adults; most steers are sold at 3-4 years of age for slaughter; 33? of
heifers are serviced at two years of age; and the culling rate for cows is
152; and (b) for sheep lambs marked, 752; mortality rates, 62 for lambs and
adults; 54Z of the two-year-old ewes are put to the ram; culling rate for
eves is 18?; and fleece production from adult sheep is 3.7 kg per head.
The investment package consists of fencing (32Z of total), farm machinery
(28?) and pastures (262), with the balance used for the purchase of stock
and for establishing forestry. The most important investment is in



ANNX VI
- 68 -                    Page 2 of 4
fencing; the original 13 paddocks become subdivided into 32, and the
average size is reduced from 62 ha to 25 ha. In addition, 14 ha of natural
pasture are oversown, 9 ha are ploughed and planted to leys, 1 ha is used
for annual forage crops, and 3 ha of trees are planted. The improved off-
take from the natural pastures (because of the smaller size and increased
number of paddocks) is the result of the increase in carrying capacity,
which increases from 616 LU to 722 LU. The breeding coefficients only
marginally change; a smaller percentage of calves die, and a higher
percentage of cows are culled and steers fattened. Beef produced, on a
live-weight basis, increases from 69 kg/ha to 82 kg/ha. Net income
increases from $11/ha to $15/ha. The estimated internal rate of return is
30Z.
5.       Model No. 2s  Sheep and Cattle Ranch (1.000 ha).  The model
consists of 993 ha of natural pasture and 7 ha of trees. The farm breeds
and fattens both cattle and sheep, and carries a total of 735 LU. The
breeding coefficients for both cattle and sheep are similar to those used
for the 800 ha model. The investment package differs because of the
purchase of a tractor and consists of farm machinery (36Z of the total),
fencing (322), livestock (16Z), and 15? on pastures. The most important
investment is made in fencing; the original 8 paddocks are subdivided into
32. and the average size diminishes from 125 ha to 32 ha. In addition,
15 ha of planted leys and 60 ha of oversown pastures are established. The
increase in carrying capacity from 735 LU to 891 LU and the improved off-
take from the natural pastures results from the reduced size and increased
number of paddocks. Breeding coefficients change only marginally. Beef
production, on a live-weight basis, increases from 65 kg/ha to 76 kg/ha.
Net income rises from $15/ha to $19/ha. The estimated internal rate of
return is 232.
6.       Model No. 3:  Dairy Farm (130 ha).  The farm is on better than
average land (CONFAT index 140) and has 10 paddocks, which include 80 ha of
natural pasture, 9 ha of oversown pasture, 27 ha of leys, 12 ha of annual
forage crops, and 2 ha of trees. The ranch produces milk and beef, and
keeps enough sheep to feed the employees.   Milk production is about 2,000
litres/cow in production, and the farm carries a total of 122 LU. The
investment package consists of pasture improvement (53Z of the total),
machinery (212), livestock (19Z), and fencing (71). The most important
investment is made in pastures; the farm doubles its area of planted leys
to 54 ha and more than doubles the annual forage crops to 27 ha. The
increase in productivity is shown by an increase in milk per cow in
production to 2,500 litres; in addition, three-quarters of the heifers are
serviced at two years of age. Beef production, on a live-weight basis,
increases from 60 kg/ha to 77 kg/ha, and milk production from 919 litreslha
to 1,543 litres/ha. The net income rises from $27/ha to $45/ha. The
estimated internal rate of return is 27Z.
7.       Model No. 4:  Mixed Farm (480 ha).  The farm is on better than
average land (CONEAT index 140) and has eight paddocks with a total of
320 ha of natural pasture, 126 ha of crops (both winter and summer crops),
30 ha c.7 leys, and 4 ha of trees. The farm has sheep and cattle breeding
and fati.ening; wheat and barley (as winter crops, both single cropped and
with uw.dersown pastures); and sorghum and sunflower (as summer crops).
Wheat yields are 1,500 kg/ha; barley 1,550 kg/ha; sorghum 2,500 kg/ha; and



ANE  VI
- 69-                     Page S of 4
sunflower 700 kg/ha.  The farm carries a total of 295 LU, of which one-
third are sheep.  The investment package is very different from models 1
and 2: the major investment is in livestock (502 of the total), with
smaller investments in pasture improvement (232), machinery (172), and
fencing (102). The investment package is designed to take full advantage
of the fattening potential, given better soilst in essence, the breeding
herds are sold off and the ranch buys in steers and whethers to fatten.
There is no change in the area of cropped land. Once the investment
package has been fully developed, the natural pastures are better managed
and cover only 199 ha. There are 126 ha of leys, 14 ha of annual pastures,
and the area under trees and crops remains unchanged. Before the
investment, two-thirds of sales revenue originated from crops and one-third
from stock; after the development of the farm, the inverse is true. Crop
yields increase only slightly, but beef production, on a live-weight basis,
increases from 77 kg/ha to 205 kg/ha. Net income rises from $20/ha to
$50/ha. The estimated internal rate of return is 372.
8.       Model No. 5t  Eucal"ytus Plantation (200 ha).  The model is based
on a phased planting of-SO ha per year of eucalyptus, in a pure stand. The
species proposed for planting are E. grandis or E. saliana, as most of the
wood is expected to be exported for puxlp processing. The cost of planting
over a two-year period is $180/ha. Soil preparation is undertaken in
strips, using either a rotovator or a disc plough. Ant control is
essential for the first two years. Trees are typically hand planted, at a
density of 1,660 plants/ha (spacing of 4m x 1.5m). Maintenance costs are
very low, and consist mainly of manual weeding during years 1 and 2 and
clearing of firelanes. The trees regenerate from the cut stump, and are
harvested three times, in years 8, 16 and 24; yields are about 200, 142 and
120 tonslha, respectively. Pruning is carried out in years 9 and 17. The
price estimated for wood placed on truck in the forest is $11S/m3. The
internal rate of return estimated is 462 (the proposed incentive was
excluded).
9.       Model No. 6s  Pine Plantation (200 ha].  The model is based on a
phased planting of 50 ha per year of pine, in a pure stand. The species
proposed for planting are Southern Pine, Pinus taeda and Pinus elliotii.
The wood is to be used mainly as sawn timber, and most of the timber is to
be exported. The cost of planting over a two-year period is $135/ha. Soil
preparation is carried out in strips, either by rotavator or disc plough.
Ant control is essential in the first two years. Planting density is
1,250/ha (spacing of 4a x 2m), and can be mechanized as plants are planted
with bare roots. Maintenance costs are low, and are made up mainly of
weeding which is important in the initial years. Pine trees do not
regenerate, but are thinned out in years 3, 9, and 13, and finally
harvested in year 20; yields in years 9, 13, and 20 are 38, 76 and 238
tons/ha respectively.  The estimated price for the wood placed on truck in
the forest is $23/m3. The internal rate of return estimated is 372.
10.      Model No. 7: Citrus Plantation (30 ha).  The model is based on
the establishment, in one year, of 30 ha of Valencia oranges. The planting
density is 600 plants/ha.  The total cost of the investment (i.e.,
establishment and maintenance) is $206,122 over the first four years.  The
largest investment is in irrigation equipment (222 of the total), followed
by the nursery stock (152).  The cost of labor and materials for the first
four years is 352 of the total, and fuel, power and pesticides figure
highest in these costs. Annual operating costs are high, and increase to



ANNEX VI
- 70 -                    Page 4 of 4
over $70,000 p.a. by year 13. Trees bear fruit only in year 5 (at 6.8
ton/ha) and do not reach maturity until year 13 (at 45 tons/ha). Two-
thirds of output is expected to be of exportable quality, which commands a
price almost three times that paid in the local market. The internal rate
of return is estimated at 14X.
11.      Model No. 8s  Irrigated Citrus Plantation (30 ha).  The model is
based on the rehabilitation of 30 ha of Valencia oranges, in one year,
through the introduction of irrigation. The cost of investment ($82,000)
is considerably lower than model No. 7, which includes establishment costs.
It is assumed that the investment is made in year 9 of the life of the
plantation. In addition, the cost of mechanization is lower. Because
irrigation is being introducted to a mature grove, yields increase almost
immediately and continue to increase until year 14. The internal rate of
return is estimated at 352.
12.      Model No. 9t ADDle Orchard (10 ha).  The model for this
plantation is based on an orchard of 10 ha, planted in one year; the
variety planted is Granny Smith.  The planting density is 400 trees/ha.
The cost of investment is $102,259. The largest part of the investment is
in irrigation equipment and machinery. The cost of labor and materials is
higher, on a per ha basis, than in the models for citrus; fuel, power and
pesticides costs are also high in this model. Annual operating costs rise
to $48,000 by year 9. Trees begin to bear fruit in year 5 (at a yield of
10 tons/ha) and reach maturity by year 8 (at a yield of 50 tons/ha). Half
of production is projected to be of export quality, which commands a price
four times that paid on the local market. The internal rate of retarn is
estimated at 16Z.
13.      Model No. 10,  Horticultural CroDs (10 ha).  The model is based on
6 ha of sweet peppers and 4 ha of strawberries. The cost of investment is
$63,510. The largest component of the investment is for irrigation
equipment and machinery. The cost of labor and materials, on a per ha
basis, for strawberries is six times that of sweet peppers; labor and
fertilizers are the main operating costs. Peppers are planted at 47,000
plants/ha; strawberries at 95,000 plants/ha. The product is classified in
both cases. Seventy percent of the sweet pepper crop is exported, at six
times the price of those peppers sold on the local market. A similar
percentage of the strawberry production is exported fresh, and a further
202 is exported after processing. The internal rate of return is estimated
at 34X.



_ 71 -
AM1E VII
Page 1 oi 5S
AIctULTURAL ICUELOPHENT ROCT II
sarur  Accowts bw Tear
Totals Includird Continmnin
(US I '000)
1999    190    199        1992    193       1"94   1995  19     Tot.1
I. INVESTINT COSTS
A. CREDIT                               ?.603.9 12,339.4 189678.9 25019.4 30l155.7 169W.4 79363.0 '65.0 1182452.6
D. INSTIUlTIONAL SUPPORT
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSLtTANTS                         525.4   425.2   370.1    46.1           -        -             -   1,366.9
HATERIALS AND TRPYEL                 50.4      2.9      4.2      2.8        -        -       -    -       60.4
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         575.8   428.2   374.4    49.9           -        -       -    -   1942?.3
2. TRAINING                          1.203.7  1,271.0  160.0  15409,4  1,451.2   ?44.9          -    -  79440.3
3. RESEARCH                            509.8   246.7    253.3   128.0   103.9    41.6           -    -   1,293.4
4. DEJONSTRATION FARMS                 169.6   145.7   266.3   250.9    29e.5   279.8  192.1 249.6   19772.0
S. OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT                247.4        -        -        -        -        -      -    -    247.4
Sub-Tot3l IN8TITUTIONAL SUPPORT         2,706.3  2s091.5  2s254*6  1,93r.2  17M.?  1905.4  192.1 249.6  12#170.4
Total INUESTHENT COSTS                    10.310.1 14,929.9 20.933.5 269855.6 31,929.4 17u194.1 7555.1 714.6 130s423.0
I  11.3 zcz==080    ZSZ                 asauau 3__8*0
1I. RECURE  COSTS
A. SALARIES                              166.0   174.7  12.9   227.0   236.3   222.2             -    -   1s209.2
9. OAiTING COSTS                         124.5   139.5   146.0   134.4   135.4   136.3           -    -    816.2
Total RECURRNT COSTS                         29.5   314.3   329.0   361.4   371.7   359.6            -          -      07S.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                        10600.6 15v244.2 21,262.5 27,217.0 32,301.1 17PS53.4 7,5.1 714.6 132s449.3
jlh' 30v 199 11'44



- 72 -
AUN=E  VII
Page 2 of 5
URUGAY
AGRICULTURAL £EWLOPMENT PROJECT II
Suiari Acount bi ProJuct Cowonent
(US I '00)
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Phvsics1l
NON-TRADITIONAL            Continieteies
INVESTMENT          TRADITIONAL  AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT   FORESTRY AGRICULTURE    EXPORTS        Total       I   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CREDIT                               1199252,6         -           -               -  119,252.6   0.0    0.0
B. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSULTANTS                               -     '60.0       150.0           360.0    11170.0   5.0   58.5
MATERIALS AND TRAWL                       -      53.4           -               -       53.4    5.0    2.?
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               -    713.4        150.0           360.0    13223.!   5.0   61.2
2. TRAINING                                  -    222.0    1,910.0           3,832.0    5994.0    5.0  299.?
3. RESEARCH                                  -     488.0       43.0            100.0   1,081.0   5.0   54.1
4. DEMONSTRATION FARNIS                      -         -     1,353.0     -        -    1J353.0   5./   67.7
5. OFFICE ESTABLISHENT                       -    206.B                         15.0      221.9   5.0   11.1
Sub-Total INSTITUTIAL S IPPORT                  -  l1630.2      3P936.0         4307.0    ?PB?73.2   5,0   .93.7,
Total IMNESTMENT COSTS                     119,252.6  1,630.2    3#936.0           4,307.0  129125.9   0.4   493.?
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                                          6 620.4         -           398.8   1,009.2   0.0    0.0
B. OPERATING COSTS                             -    527.4            -           159.3     686.?   0.0    0.0
Total RECURREIT COSTS                              -   1,147.8           -           548.1   1,695.9   0.0    0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                        118,252,6   29778.0    3,936.0          4v95W.1  129,821.7   0.4  493,7
Phwical Continienies                             -      81.5       196.8           215.4      493.7   0.0    0.0
Pricw Continkencius                              -    433.?        76658           932.5   2133.0   i.0   95.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                         118,252.6  3M293.1      4899.6         65002.9  132.,44.3   0.4  579.5
~22UW3UUUZ    23m  aft=vomu23                  2S*3U      2=3W2
Foreign Exchau                            35,475.8 IB 3O.0    2t543.8            3,770.7   439170.3   0.   3t3.5
Juls 30, 1989  11'44



A6RICULtWL DEUELWIt PRCT II
ProJsct Coawwonts bw Year
Bs costs                                                     Total
199        1990       M19          199        1993        1M         19        1996        us9          (1US9)
A. DlWESTIt CREDIT                      ?,603,900.0 1293400.0 19,671,900.0 250198400.0 30P155700o.0 16,12,400.0 7,a63,00o00 465,000.0 1194252,600.0 119,252,600.0
B. INSTTUTIflfiL SUPPORT
FORESTR                                955,aeo300.0   474900.0   549,50.0   291,500.0   253,300.0   253,300.0       -        -   2o777.9500   ,7m,ss.0
AMTIeoML ARICtLTUE                     990,000.0   662,000.0   666O,O0.0   U66000.0   592,0o0.0   2O1,00o.O  133,000.0 166,000.0   3,93,000.0  3,936,000.0
W-TRADITIONML AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS     954100.0   924,600.0   9,9600,0   904,100.0   7899600.0   595,1OO0            -        -    ,055,100.0  4,95,5100.0
Sub-Total INSTITUTIOAL SUPPORT          2,699,400.0  2,061,400.0 N,114,350.0  1,731,600.0  146239900.0 109ON400.0  133,000.0 16600oo.0  311569050,0  11,569050.0
Totail ASELIE COStS                      10,303,200.0 l4e999900.0 2097939250.0 26,750,000.0 31779,600.0 17168,900.0 79496o000o0 631,000.0 129921650.0 129,921,650.0
Phwical Contirngies                      121,300.0    9U,025.0    91,672.5    71,760.0    66,550.0    39,400.0    6,650,0  9300M 0    43L657.5    493,P57.5
Price Contingencies                      176,09.2   255,333.2   37,546.3   395,225.0   454,977.7   346,169.9   52,17.5 75,252.0   2.1330o09.9  2,133009.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                      10,600,599.2 15,244,158.2 21,262,469.9 27216,95.0 32,301,917.7 179553,368.9 7,5,067.5 714,52.0  1324493417.4 132,449,317.4
Foruign Exchange                        4,095,564.3 5.255,609.4 7,061,931.9 3e69O,16.9 10,129,176.1 5,451,127.9 2,247s313.5 1899410.*  43,170,290.4  3,170,290.4
Julu 30, 192  1144
0'



M6RICULflI"ULW T  UC  11
VREMM OF MMn ACCOUNITS
(WI '000)
Piwical Contini lus            Price Contioggnceis
Saw Casts                                                                                         T_ta l Irl. rrnt.
Local                           Lcal
Local (Excl. DUts I           for. (Cxcl. utis  (Ixcil htius I                                        Lecdl (ntc. hAts t
Fe?. Exch.   Toxe)    Tax      Totl    Exci. t7=) Txs  Total Fot. Exch. Tn)  TuXes  Tol   For. Exch.   Tax)    Tsx    Totl
1. M la    O
A. CREDIT                              353475.9    92,776.        -11892.6       -      -       -    -           -       -       -      -   353475.9    12,276.9        -12B9252.6
U. IDTITlUrlUL 91'rT
t. 1ECIJCM. ASSISTAIICE
COISLTITS                           919.0       351.0       -  1,170.0  41.0  17.6         - 58.5        96.9   41.3       -  139.4       94..        410.1        -  1,366.9
MATERIALS MM TWL                     37.3        16.0       -      33.4   1.°   0.9        -  2.7         3.1    1.3       -    4.4        42.3        19.1       -      60.4
-Total lEODUCAL ASSISTANCE             956.3       367.0       -  1,223.4  42.9  19.4         - 61.2       9.9   42.9         -  142.9       M.1         429.2       -  I2.J
2. TRAININ                           4,195.9    t1799.2        -  3.SM.0 20.9  09.9           - 29.7       902.6  344.0         1,146.6     P,209.2    2,232.1       -  ?7440.3
3. RESEARCH                             56.7       324.3       -  1491.0  37.8  16.2          - 54.1       103.9    4.S       -  149.3       999.4       395.0       -  1921.4
4.    N9TATION FAS                     270.6     1,082.4       -  19353.0  13.5  54.1         - 67.7       70.3  291.1        -  31.3        354.4    1tM17.S        -  2Im.0
S. WFFICE ESTAILILIl                   135.3        66".            221.9   7.9   3.3         - 11.1        10.2    4.4       -   14.3       173.2        74.?       -    247.
Sub-Total INTITUMIML 9RT                6234.7      3638.4        -  9,973.2 311.7 19.9         - 93.?    1,096.9  716.7         -1,903.6    ?.633.3      4,337.1       - 12,170.M
Total IIRICSTIEN! COSTS                   41,710.5    96415.3       - 129,125.9 311.7 191.9        - 43.7    1,086.9  716.7         - 1,903.6   4310V9.0    P,313.9        - 130,423.0
It.    -      COSS
A. SD-'E9                                   -      1009.2        -  19009.2      -     -       -    -           -  200.0        -  200.0           -     1,209.2       -  1209.2
D.  RATI COaSm                           51.5        635.2       -    696.7      -     -       -    -         9.7   1.7         - M22.5         61.2       734.9       -    916.2
Total RECIitT COSTS                          31.5     1644.4        -  1,695.9      -      -       -    -         9.7  319.?        -  329.5        61.2     1.964.1       -  2,025.4
Total                                     41,762.0    99,05S.?       - 2299821.7 311.7  191.9       - 493.7    1,9.6.6 1,036.4       * 2,33.0   43,170.3    99,279.0        - 132.U49.3
.Me. 30, IM   11:44



unUr
AsRIWCLTIIRL DEVELUREJT PROJECT It
Finaning Plan bh SMarv Accouts
(U3 '000)
tENTEITIONAL 00S                                    J EW
FMR RECONSTRUCTION    FINWlICAL                   OVE          T O _IUNT  OF
NMD DEYELOPT    INTEREDIARIES               S         FUND          UNUT           Totl
Local (E1,.
ho 2mt     3      Aaott  I    Amot  2           Ammt    2    _usmt   2    A_mt           I   For. Excb .    Tsw)
1. IN'ESTm    COSTS
A. CRlEDIT                              59126.3   50.0  35,475.9 30.0 23,650.5 20.0            -      -     0.0  0.0  11O,252.6 8.3   35475.0          920776.9
B. INSTITUTIOL SUlT
1. TEOBHICAL ASSISTANCE
SONSULTANTS                        1.016.5   ?4.4          -   -          -   -      350.3  25.6         -    -   1,366.9  1.0        956.9         410.1
MATERIALS AND TRAYL                      -       -         -   -          -   -       60.4  100.0      0.0  0.0       60.4  0.0        42.3          18.1
Sub-Toatl TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        1,016.5   71.2          -   -          -   -      410.7  29.8       0.0  0.0   1,427.3  1.1           .1         428.2
2. TRAINING                           3,553.1   47.9          -   -          -   -   1,000.5  13.4  2,986.7 38.9   7,440.3  5.6    s.20.2            2,232.1
3. RSEARCH                              700.1   54.5          -   -          -   -      437.5  34.1   145.8  11,4    1M283.4  1.0         ".4          395.O
4. DEMNSTRATION FARMS                   410.6   23.2          -   -  1.255.7 70,9           -      -   105.6  6.0  l1,7M.o   1.3         354.4       1,417.6
5. OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT                 247.4  100.0          -              -   -          -      -       -    -       247.4  0.2       173.2          7.2
Sub-Total 2NSTITUTIONAL SUPFORT          5,927,7   49.7          -   -  1,255.7 10.3   1,849.7  15.2 3,138.2 25.0  12,170.4  9.2    7.633.3             45371.
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     659054&0   49,9  359475.9 27.2  24,906.3 19.1   1.849.7   1.4 3,138.2  2.4  130,423.0 99.5   43,109.0          97,313.9
II, RECUWENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                                   -      -          -   -          -   -          -      -  1,209.2 100.0   1.209.?  0.9           -       I.209.2
9. DPERATIN6 COSTS                            -      -          -   -         -   -           -      -   816.2 100.0      916.2  0.6        61.2         754,9       . 
Totl RECENT COSS                                  -      -          -   -                                  2,025.4 100.0   2'O25.4   1.5        61.2       1,964.1
Total Dishwsgmnt                            65,054.0   49.1  35,475#8 26.0 21,906.3 18.9   1,94D.?   14 5,163.5  3.9  132449.3 100.0   43170.3             899278*0
u         =         _       =3 0,_ 19__ 11:44                                           M                                          °
bulu 309 lmV II44



- 76 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN? PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements - Bank 11
CUS$ million)
Net
Bank                         Diabursement    Undisbursed   Cumulative
Fiscal Year   Semester Ending   in Semester        Balance    Disbursement
1990         12.31.1989          6.0  21          59.0           6.0
6.30.1990         1.3              57.7           7.3
1991         12.31.1990          2.6              55.1           9.9
6.30.1991         3.2              51.9          13.1
1992         12.31.1991          3.8              48.1          16.9
6.30.1992         4.5              43.6          21.4
1993         12.31.1992          5.2              38.4          26.6
6.30.1993         5.9              32.5          32.5
1994         12.31.1993          6.7              25.8          39.2
6.30.1994         7.3              18.5          46.5
1995         12.31.1994          8.0              10.5          54.5
6.30.1995         6.1               4.4          60.6
1996         12.A1.1995          4.3               0.1          64.9
6.30.1996         0.1               0.0          65.0
1997         12.31.1996          0.0               0.0          65.0
6.30.1997         0.0               0.0          65.0
Notes:  11 Conforms to the Bank's disbursement profile for agricultural
credit projects in the LAC Region.
2/ Initial disbursement for the Special Account.



- 77 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements - Japanese Grant Funds
(USS thousand)
Net
Bank                         Disbursement    Uhdisbursed   Cumulative
Fiscal Year   Semester Ending   in Semester       Balance    Disbursement
1990         12.31.1989          200.0  1/     1,650.0          200.0
6.30.1990         125.0          1,525.0         325.0
1991         12.31.1990          250.0         1,275.0          575.0
6.30.1991         200.0          1,075.0         775.0
1992         12.31.1991          150.0           925.0          925.0
6.30.1992         180.0            745.0       1,105.0
1993         12.31.1992          200.0           545.0        1,305.0
6.30.1993         180.0            365.0       1,485.0
,.994        12.31.1993         150.0            215.0       1,635.0
6.30.1994         140.0             75.0       1,775.0
1995         12.31.1994           75.0             -          1,850.0
6.30.1995           -                -         1,850.0
1996         12.31.1995            -               -          1,850.0
6.30.1996           -                -         1,850.0
1997         12.31.1996            -               -          1,850.0
6.30.1997           -                -         1,850.0
Notes 1/ Initial disbursement for the Special Account.



-                        ANNE J X
Page 1 of 4
URuGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ey- Indicators and Reporting Reauirements
A. ReY Indicators
by end calendar year
1991      1993      1995      1997
1. Loan disbursements:
(a)  credit                     15Z       492        90Z       looz
(bJ  institutional support      37Z       69Z        942       100Z
2.  Japanese Grant Fund Dl-bursement:  41!        792       100!       --
B.  Relortina Requirements
1.  The reporting requirements have been designed to assist with the
submission of progress reports, the mid-term and ex-post evaluation of
the project, and the completion of Part III of the Project Completion
Report. Monitoring and evaluation under the project would be the
responsibilities of MGAP and OPP, respectively. Monitoring would be
carried out by a small unit attached to the DGSE and would cover
(a) credit operations; (b) analysis of technical aspects of
investments; tc) financial analysis based on (i) farms and enterprise
models; and (ii) a small representative sample of actual investments
supported by .he credit component of the project; (d) institutional
support and technical assistance.
Lending Operations
2.  For each sub-loan made, the IF! would be obliged to send to the BCU a
completed format data sheet which would be passed to the Monitoring
Unit. Each participating IFI would submit a report semiannually to the
BCU, which would include information on:
(a) amounts committed;
(b) number and type of subloans granted;
(c) subloan disbursements;
(d) subloan repayments by borrowers, and repayments to BCU; and
(e) amounts in arrears and number of affected subloans.
3.  The monitoring of lending operations would include a data base
generated from the format data sheets of subloans to allow
analysis of lending beyond the normal reporting requirement. The
system would monitor, but would not be restricted to, the
following:



- 79 -                   ANNEX X
Page 2 of 4
(a) description of activities financed (main and eubsidiary
categories);
(b) subproject size. total investment, subloan size, other
financing;
(c) number of loan applications, loan commitments and
disbursements, withdrawal from IBRD loan proceeds,
':payments, arrears; and
(d) evolution of indices for maintenance of principal value in
subloans.
Investments
4. Based on the information provided by IFIs through BCU, the
monitoring unit would report on the investments actually being
made under the project. The credit component is not restricted to
the subsectors receiving institutional support under the project.
Reporting on investments would include:
(a)  tractors and agricultural machinery purchased;
(b)  livestock purchased, by category;
(c)  ranch development: pasture establishment and improvement,
permanent and electric fencing, watering facilities;
;d)  on-farm structures;
(e)  annual crop establishment;
(f)  perennial crop establishment and renovation;
(g)  irrigation facilities installed;
(h) forest planting;
(i) agro-industries established, by type, including packing
plants, cold storage.
Institutional Support
5. The monitoring unit would also report on the progress achieved
under the three areas of institutional support. It would be
responsible for compiling the semiannual Progress Reports to which
the PLAN, the Forestry Directorate, and the Coordinating Unit
(Technical Secretariat) for NTAEs would make their contributions.
Each of these units would provide information on the progress of
its subcomponents.
6. The statistical data and background information required for
Part III of the Project Completion Report is shown in Appendix 2
of this Annex. The data required for Section 6, Project Results,
will be compiled by the monitoring unit in the course of its basic
work.



-  80  -
HOJA DE DATOS                                      Page 3 of 4
Para el Uso do Productores del
Segundo Pno  de Da,rolo Agropuaulo - Banco MundW
Nombre                                                 HarNon del
del Clients                                            Adhdrr_  oC
Contraist de
Tipo de Negocdo             Pecuario,              Agriola                Silvicuftua°   Maquinaria
Tamato deo la PPd  1
Hectareas a
trabajar                                 Otras Faciidades
Ubicion de la bwaon                                    IPmpiode la Iwsion y
Equileso en US$                            PFcentaje
CosloTOW del Proyeto
Equipo, obras o servicins
de terceros
Animales
Cultivos anuaes o perennes                          1  .III
EquiWet. an US$                             PealeMO
Plan de Fwri meo                                 LIZI[00%
Contribucion del CAiente
Contribucion del BCU
Contribucion de IFI 3/                                    Z
Otras Contribuciones
Termnrios y Condicknes pata el dents en relacin ala onrbion dd PCU
Tipo de indice de ajuste
Tasa delrnteres %                         r                    Comision                  r1      1
Plan de amortizacion (con fechas)
Periodo de Gracia                          Li | Mesas                              AIY o (a)
Nombre y Dkeocion del Conair quo pXra semvicios de Asisencia Tenrd /
11 Solo para Productores
2/ Describa el equipo principal
3/ Instucion Fmnanciera Intermediaria



- 81 -                   ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 4
APPENDIX 2
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENS PROJECT
Proiect Comoletion Renort Data
1.       The statistical data and background information required for
Part III of the Project Completion Report (PCR) will be agreed at
negotiations. The data will be systematically collected during
project implementation.  The responsibilities of the Bank and the
Borrower for data and information collection is as followss
Section                                      Responsibilitv
1. Related Bank loans                                Bank
2.  Project timetable                                Bank
3.  '.oan and Grant funds disbursement               Bank
4.  Project implementation - key indicators          Bank
5.  Project costs and financing                      Bank
6.  Project results - key indicators         Bank/Borrower
- economic impact       Bank/Borrower
- financial impact      Bank/Borrower
- studies               Bank/Borrower
7.  Status of covenants                              Bank
8.  Use of Bank resources - staff inputs,
mission costs                       Bank
2.       Data requirements for Section 6 will be the responsibility of
the project monitoring unit at MGAP and, for studies, OPP.
Information concerning the use of credit in investments will be
provided by the IFIs, via the BCU, to the monitoring unit.



ANNEX X
82 -                   Page 1 of 2
URUGUlAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.       Preparation Report
Programa de Desarrollo Sectorial Agropecuario y Forestal,
OPP and MGAP, 1988
Texto Principal
Subprograma de Desarrollo Agropecuario
Informe Principal
Anexo I       Estadisticas
Anexo II      Plan Agropecuario
Anexo III     Modelos Prediales
Anexo IV      Calculos
Anexo V       Instituciones
Anexo VI      Recomendacione3 de Investigaci6n
Subprograma de Desarrollo Forestal
Informe Principal
Anexo I       Modelos Forestales
Anexo II      Estimaci6n de Precios de E. grandis y Pino
Anesc, III    Estimaci6n de la Produccion de Madera de
Calidad de Eucalipto y Pino
Anexo IV      Componentes del Proyecto Forestal
Anexo V       Clima
Anexo VI      Suelos
Anexo VII     Lineas del Credito del BROU
Anexo VIII    Marco Legal
Anexo IX      Principales Caracteristicas de las Especies de
Eucalipto y Pino para Forestacion y Usos
Anexo X       Datos Censales
Subprograma de Apoyo a los Productos No Tradicionales de
Exportacion
Informe Principal
Anexo I       Datos Preliminares de la Encuesta Fruticola de 1988
Anexo II      Relevamientr de Intenciones de Inversi6n en PNTE
Anexo III     Fortaleciminto Institucional del MGAP
Anexo IV      Infraestructura Fisica de Exportacion (Terminalcs de
Carga)
Anexo V       Capacitaci6n
Anexo VI      Asistencia Tecnica Internacional
Anexo VII     Apoyo a la Generaci6n de Tecnologia para PNTE
Anexo VIII    Propuesta de Subsector Semillas
Anexo IX      Aspectos Especificos del SEPENT
Anexo X       Costos de Producci6n y Viabilidad Externa de los
PNTE
Anexo XI      Proyecciones del Subprograma
Anexo XII     Mercados Externos de los PNTE
Anexo XIII    Analisis Econ6mico



ANNEX X
- 83 -                   Page 2 of 2
2.       Pre-Aooraisal Consultants Reports
Non-Traditional Exports Component
Forestry Component
Livestock Sub--eector
3.       A praisal Working PaDers
Agricultural Credit
Forestry
Non-Traditional Export Promotion
Traditional Sectors Demonstration Farms, Research
and Scholarships
Traditional Sectors Agricultural Training



IBRD 21503
58   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~5
-  sr  A BRAZ ILAG                                                            A DEVELOPMENT
rt-~>_    _f<av igas                                                   PROJECT 11
t1 D  AfT Areas of forest priority
-6 -Main roads
ARGENTINA                                                                                                                        Secondary roads
Rj ,\ [                                        ,> ip-vera  Railroods
'00, ~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~R~ivers
k  fiClobstitucn .                                                                                            1,.>, \L+/ ffi W>. _ Bridges
!Z                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports
P Ports
--Department boundaries
a to                                         , L T,,( 0     )     \  ,3^N,._---International boundaries
Kilometers 0    20   40    60   80  100
~~f'RO   LAf~~~~ile             ioBranco
3r2 y                                               Piedt4Sol
ARG  PaAi d                                                                                            X
'2 1 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       -S 
0 ~ ~      C~  h~
A   Z NT     EI   TA 
Fray Bent                                                                  einto y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-~S  t.S
E S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~- 
L A V A L L ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     \OLVI 
Colo6iael Sacrmen   E1ROCCor                                                                                                           HilE     v,
0 L 0  ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL18



