Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18489
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3131-UR and associated Japanese Grant TF 026600)
October 22, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit':        Uruguayan Peso
Exchange rate at appraisal:  US$1       NU$640
NU$1    US$0.002
Exchange rate at closing:    US$1  =  U$9.97
U$1   =  US$0.103
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President    Shahid Javed Burki
Director         Myrna Alexander
Director         Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader      Steven Oliver
The New Uruguayan Peso (NU$), in use at the time of appraisal, was changed to the present Uruguayan Peso (U$)
in March 1993 with the equivalency of NU$I 1000 = US 1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIAlTIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASL         - Agricultural Sector Loan
ASR         -Agricultural Sector Review
BCU         - Central Bank of Uruguay
BROU        - Bank of the Republic of Uruguay
FAO/CP      - Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
CPI         - Consumer Price Index
FUCREA    - Uruguayan Federation of Regional Agricultural Experimentation Groups
GATT        - General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOU         - Government of Uruguay
1DB         - Inter-American Development Bank
IFI         - Intermediate Financial Institution
INIA        - National Agricultural Research Institute
JGF         - Japanese Grant Funds
MEF         -Mnistry of Economy and Finance
MGAP        - Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries
OPP         - Office of Planning and Budget
PBPI        - Product Basket Price Index
PENTA       - Non-Traditional Agricultural Exports Program
PRENADER  - National Irrigation Program
PREDEG    - Small-holder Development Program
PLAN        - Livestock Plan
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
SAL         - Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE         - Statement of Expenditures
TC          - Audit Board
UPCT         - Projects and Technical Cooperation Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3131-UR and Japanese Grant Tlr 026600)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pafe No
PRtEFACE ...................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................                                       iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .               ...................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ....................................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................9
D. Project Sustainability ...................................................                       12
E. Bank Performance ...................................................                             12
F. Borrower Performance ...................................................                         15
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................                       16
H. Key Lessons Learned .................................................... 19
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................. 21
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .................................                                 21
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ................................. 23
Table 3:  Project Timetable .................................                                      24
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................... 24
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................... 25
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project .............................................                26
Table 7:  Project Costs .............................................. 27
Table 8:  Project Financing .............................................                          27
Table 9.  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................                                    28
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................                                 32
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions                      ..                     ......................... 32
APPENDIX  1:  Borrower Contribution to ICR .................................                                 33
APPENDIX  2:  The Forestry Sub-Sector .................................                                      38
APPENDIX  3:  The Livestock Sub-Sector .................................                                     42
MAP:              IBRD No. 21503



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3131-UR and Japanese Grant T]F 026600)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural
Development Project in Uruguay, for which Loan 313 1-UR, in the amount of US$65.0
million equivalent, was approved by the Board on October 31, 1989 and became effective
on May 11, 1990. The project was also financed in part by the associated Japanese Grant
TF 026600, for Y250 million.
2.    The Loan was closed on December 31, 1997, the Closing Date having been
extended by a total of 31 months from the originally-specified Closing Date of May 31,
1995. Final disbursement took place on May 28, 1998, at which time a balance of
US$43,619.36 was canceled.
3 .    This ICR was prepared by Steven Oliver of the Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development Department (LCSES), Sector Management Unit of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Region (LAC), and Percival Bonci (Consultant, FAO/CP).
4.    The ICR is based on material in the project file and on discussions with Bank staff
and consultants who worked on the project, and with the stafl of the implementing
agencies and other public and private entities in Uruguay. Three background reports are
available in the LCSES Department Project File. These are: i(a) a report on the evolution
of interest rates under the credit component, produced by UPCT/MGAP; (b) a report on
the present status of the forestry sub-sector, produced by the IDirecci6n Forestal; and (c)
the evaluation report for PENTA, produced by the consulting firm, PROMESUR.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3131-UR and Japanese Grant TF 026600)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Second Agricultural Development Project was the seventh in a series of
projects providing direct support to agricultural production in Uruguay. The technical
foundation for this support resulted from a joint mission by the Bank and the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) in 1950, which concluded that the production frontier of
the agricultural sector could be massively extended via the adoption of already-proven
technology. Six projects, supported by eight Bank loans, extended from 1960 to 1989 and
promoted the adoption of prescribed investments and technology via directed credit, with
the emphasis mainly on pasture improvement and livestock production.
2.    Insufficient attention was paid during this period to the importance of macro-
economic and sector-specific policies which discriminated against investment and the
adoption of technology. Recognition of these distortions gave rise to a program of
reforms, including an agricultural sector adjustment operation supported by the Bank in
the mid-1980s. By the late-1980s, most of the most serious distortions had been removed.
A Bank Agricultural Sector Review (ASR) in 1988 described the achievements of reform,
and emphasized the changes still required in order to place the sector on an even footing
with the rest of the economy, itself embarked on a wide-ranging set of reforms and
adjustments which continue to this day.
Project Objectives
3.    The project as appraised had four objectives and was intended: (a) to increase and
diversify agricultural production and exports; (b) to encourage better use of Uruguay's
natural resources by promoting: (i) the adoption of technology in the extensive pasture
areas, (ii) the diversification of production in the more intensively-farmed southern and
western areas, and (iii) the establishment of commercial forestry in priority areas; (c) to
encourage competition in the provision of long-term agricultural credit and to increase
market influence in the determination of interest rates paid by final borrowers; and (d) to
encourage privately-financed extension services to compete with those provided by the
Government. A fifth objective was implicitly added after project start-up when the
Ministry of Agriculture created a new unit to coordinate the project and to act as the focal
point of its efforts to modernize and restructure the Ministry.



- iv -
4.    The project had two major components: (a) a line of medium- and long-term
credit, to finance investments by producers in the agricultural sector and permanent
working capital complementary to investments; and (b) institutional support to traditional
agriculture (livestock and cropping), forestry and non-traditional agricultural export
promotion.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The objectives of the project were clear and realistic; they addressed the main
issues and were oriented towards growth in the sector. The project was not particularly
demanding for the four implementing agencies or for the coordinating unit. It was not a
complex or a risky operation, and the project's design was easily adapted to the few
changes brought about by the Borrower. The objectives were in the categories of
institutional development, financial sector development and physical results, and the
achievements were substantial. The design of the project was appropriate for achieving
the objectives, but the criteria for measuring their achievement were not well quantified in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), being restricted to key indicators based on
disbursements; the quantification of objective measures was made in a base-line study
carried out under the project and completed in May 1991.
6.    The last ten years has been one of the most dynamic periods in the history of
agricultural development in Uruguay. The benefits of liberalization and stable policy have
generated a significant response from farmers. Investment and innovation have driven
growth in the sector, and major expansion has been achieved in the beef, dairy, rice,
forestry, and citrus sub-sectors. The project contributed to this in a number of ways.
7.    Since 1960, the Government and the Bank have collaborated continuously in
investment and the search for solutions to low productivity in the extensive pasture areas,
which cover 73% (12 million ha) of the productive area of the country. The results were
not always encouraging, the main problem being the short life of improved pastures. In
the last decade, however, dramatic results have been obtained through new and reliable
techniques and the availability of well-adapted legumes, based on the over-sowing of
natural pasture, resulting in the establishment and permanence of more than 700,000 ha of
improved pastures of this new type.
8.    There has been significant diversification in the areas of better soils. Dairy
production has expanded into crop and traditional beef production areas. There has been
spectacular growth in forestry, where the project was able to complement the basic
framework put in place by the Government to promote its development. This included a
new Forestry Law, an important line of credit from BROU for plantation establishment,
and the strengthening of the Direcci6n Forestal. At appraisal, it was estimated that
160,000 ha of eucalyptus and pines would be planted over eight years; by the end of 1997,
it is estimated that 269,500 ha had in fact been established, and projections for the year
2005 indicate that this total will more than double.



9.    The rate of investment in sub-projects greatly exceedled the projections and the
credit component was fully disbursed in thirty months. The Central Bank (BCU)
functioned as a "re-discount window" bringing to an end the de facto monopoly of
BROU in the Bank's previous loans. Participation in on-lending credit was open to any
intermediate financial institution (IFI) meeting a set of criteria. In practice, five IFIs
(including BROU) participated in the project. For reasons extraneous to the project, the
Bank accelerated disbursements under the loan by increasing the contribution to a sub-
project from 50% to 80%; this had the effect of reducing the size of the investment
component of the project from a projected US$118.25 million at appraisal to an estimated
US$98.7 million at completion.
10.   The modification to the project's structure to create the project coordinating unit
(the UPCT) and to pursue an ambitious program of modernization and restructuring of
MGAP was a pragmatic initiative carried out by a new administration determnined to effect
change in public sector management. The wide range of teclhnical assistance to MGAP
through the UPCT and financed from the loan contributed significantly to the achievement
of the goals; the number of executing units of MGAP was reduced from thirty-three to
seven, and the staff of MGAP was reduced from 4334 to 2914 without reducing the level
of services provided.
11.   A number of important exogenous factors influenced the evolution of the project.
Several strongly-negative price shocks were transmitted with important effects at the level
of producers, including a fall in the international price of wool and the international prices
of dairy products (in the latter years) that led to a reduction in the producer price of milk.
By contrast, buoyant demand and strong, stable prices had a significant effect in
maintaining the expansion of rice production and the development of forestry plantations.
12.   Significant sector policy initiatives during the life of the project included: (a) the
complete liberalization of the export of live animals; (b) the eradication of foot-and-mouth
disease; (c) the liberalization of the processing and marketing of dairy products; (d) the
incentive program to establish a critical mass of plantation forest resources; and (e) the
export policy in support of non-traditional agricultural expoits.
13.   The sustainability of the project is rated as likely. Ihe Government's
commitment is strong; it has initiated several other related projects with multilateral and
bilateral support, and it has included further support for both forestry and non-traditional
exports in the Bank-supported irrigation program, PRENADER. The most significant
limitation to sustainability is related to parts of the project's institutional structure.
Although the Plan Agropecuario has been "privatized", its future remains uncertain
particularly because no clearly-defined provision has been made for its future budget. Of
more immediate concern, PENTA is currently facing a management crisis which could
threaten its existence.



- vi -
14.   The physical objectives of the project were oriented principally towards supporting
investments and the adoption of technology by private sector producers. The maintenance
of a policy environment in which many of the market signals are received from the external
sector means that the long-term economic and financial viability of individual products
cannot be guaranteed. However, an encouraging feature of the recent evolution of the
agricultural sector has been the flexibility shown by producers in adjusting their activities
in response to market signals and relative profitability.
15.   The most significant social impact of the project has been the increase in demand
for labor provoked by the development of forestry and of fruit and vegetable production.
By providing an increasing number of permanent wage-earning positions in rural areas,
this is helping to reverse the trend, which has existed for a long time, of a continuous rural
exodus to the cities. This "emptying" of the interior of the country is of major concern to
the Government, and development of the forestry sub-sector in particular holds some
promise of helping to reverse the trend in specific areas.
16.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory, and in project identification and
preparation should be considered highly satisfactory. The project followed directly from
the analysis and conclusions of the ASR, and was consistent with the process of structural
reform then supported by the Bank. Sector development policy identified livestock, non-
traditional exports and forestry as the main priorities. There was significant continuity of
Bank and FAO/CP staff and consultants over this period, with a mix of skills carefully
selected to deal with the major issues. The Bank paid particular attention to the issue of
commitment to the project. The Government and the agricultural sector producers'
organizations have had an unbroken association with the Bank since the late 1950s. The
Ministry of Economy, OPP and MGAP followed very closely the process of appraisal, and
participated with ideas and staff in the final shape of the project.
17.   The project was not complex, and the Bank took care to ensure that the design
would lead to a relatively simple process of implementation. However, the Bank was less
than critical in the recognition and evaluation of some potential project risks, particularly
in the areas of institutional weakness. The risk of failure of some elements of improved
pasture technology was also under-estimated. There were no deviations from Bank
policies and procedures during project implementation.
18.   Progress with project implementation was adequately reported. During
implementation, twelve supervision missions were fielded, and progress and problems
were periodically reported. Although the project was supervised by the same task
manager during most of the period of implementation, some missions were staffed with
specialists to deal with particular problems, such as credit, finance, and forestry.
Considering that the project was rated almost continuously as "satisfactory", supervision
was a smooth exercise, characterized by flexibility and good personal relations between
the task manager and Government representatives.



- vii -
19.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. Despite the fact that the
Government endorsed the conclusions of the ASR, certain areas of conflict emerged
during project preparation, concentrated mainly on the challenge to rationalize the Plan
Agropecuario. OPP played a crucial role in project preparation, articulating the wishes of
the agricultural sector as expressed by MGAP and producers. A clear division of labor
emerged by which OPP was responsible for planning and budgeting of the project while
consultants, supervised by MGAP and FAO/CP staff, carried out the preparation. The
consultants were of good professional quality and explored a range of technical
alternatives to meet the objectives of the project. The overall quality of preparation was
satisfactory.
20.   The Borrower's performance during implementation vwas also satisfactory. The
project had institutional development, financial sector and physical objectives, most of
which were achieved during project implementation. BCU managed efficiently its role as
apex lending institution and operator of the special accounts. The management and staff
applied to these tasks were highly competent. BROU and the other IFIs had a satisfactory
performance; they were able to disburse the credit component quickly and efficiently, to
the extent that the period of disbursement was half that envisaged at appraisal.
21.   The Non-Traditional Agricultural Exports Program (PENTA) was a new
institution, created under the project on an inter-ministerial basis; its design took
advantage of foreign experience, mainly Chilean, adapted to the Uruguayan environment.
The quality of its Technical Secretariat was good, and the staff were fully committed,
enthusiastic and motivated. Producers and exporters were responsive. A rigorous
selection of beneficiaries characterized the implementation of this component.
Unfortunately, since 1995 PENTA has been suffering an internal crisis which has seriously
damaged the achievement of the objectives of non-traditional export promotion.
22.   In comparison with previous projects, the role of the Plan Agropecuario was
considerably reduced. However, it performed satisfactorily in spite of the dislocations
caused by its restructuring. It consistently applied qualified and committed staff, and it
was particularly effective in training, both overseas and locally, where it has pioneered a
novel approach to practical training for middle-level farm operators.
23.   The Direcci6n Forestal was transformed under the project from a small, neglected
line agency of MGAP into a well-organized and funded body responsible for the provision
of technical assistance to the emerging forestry sub-sector. Under the project, it had a
very clear sense of purpose and resisted the temptation to grow beyond the necessary size.
It has carefully monitored sector development, not least because it is the Government
body responsible for the administration of the incentive program for forestry plantation.
24.   Compliance on the part of the Government and the implementing agencies with
major loan covenants and commitments has been satisfactory. The major short-coming
has been in the area of auditing of project accounts. MGAP has been consistently late in
submitting to the Bank the annual audit report. It is recognized that this is a problem that



-viii -
affects many Bank-financed projects in Uruguay. Despite strenuous efforts, particularly
in recent years, by the UPCT to achieve the timely completion of the accounts and the
audit, the blame for this problem would seem to be equally shared between the
implementing agencies and the Tribunal de Cuentas.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
25.   The project's outcome was satisfactory. The achievements of the major
objectives oriented towards physical results (i.e., the increase and diversification of
production and exports, and the improved use of natural resources) were more than
satisfactory. The achievement of the minor objectives was mixed. In the area of long-
term credit, the achievements were probably temporary, however, in large part because of
the structure of the financial sector. There has been an increased market influence in the
determination of interest rates, and with increased macro-economic stability the use of
product-basket price indices (PBPIs) to adjust loan balances and interest payments has
passed into history.
26.   Although the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its cost-effectiveness in
achieving project objectives should be considered highly satisfactory. In the investment
component, individual producers supported by professional technical assistance sought
least-cost solutions in their on-farm development plans. In the institutional development
component, in which one institution, the Direcci6n Forestal, was strengthened and
another, PENTA, was created, the investments in staff, goods and technical assistance
were relatively modest and calculated carefully to achieve the objectives
27.    The future of the institutions supported by the project is far from clear. The
Direcci6n Forestal has grown in stature with the development of the forestry sub-sector,
one of the most dynamic in the economy. There is no reason to doubt that it will continue
to function effectively in the future, as long as its activities remain relevant to the
requirements of the forestry sub-sector. By contrast, and despite its significant
achievements in the early years of the project, PENTA is now a considerable
disappointment. Its future is clouded by uncertainty. Strong and decisive action should be
taken to resolve the management problems. PENTA's activities are of considerable
importance for the continued development of a dynamic and emerging sub-sector for
which there are undoubtedly many market opportunities, as demonstrated by some of the
achievements under the project.
28.   The most important lessons learned from the implementation of this project were:
(a)   It is essential that proper economic and sector work should be carried out
on a regular basis to provide in-depth knowledge on the opportunities for and constraints
to economic development and other requirements of the rural sector.
(b)   The need is confirmed for the closest possible participation of
representatives of the different sub-sectors in identification and design.



- ix -
(c)   The need is confirmed for early discussions with, and full involvement of,
key parts of the executive branch of the Government in project identification and
preparation.
(d)   The importance is confirmed of the Bank taking a firm stand on key issues,
particularly at appraisal and negotiations, and of the government doing the same.
(e)   A project start-up seminar and the preparation of an Operational Manual
would have helped to minimize some of the issues encountered particularly in the early
years of the project.
(f)    The project's design did not include a project coordinating unit, but the
value of such a unit was recognized early in implementation, resulting in the creation of
the VPCT. This unit was kept simple (it did not have a "coordinating committee" that
would have jeopardized its function). On the contrary, as it had a semi-executive role, its
performance was efficient and its process of decision-making was fast.
(g)   The experience of the project shows, once again, that good project design
must be accompanied by a stable macro-economic and sector policy environment, and that
policy interventions should be carefully tailored to relatively simple objectives.
(h)   The experience of the project confirms the decision to open up the retailing
of credit to the whole financial sector and to make investment resources available to all
productive activities in the sector. It also demonstrates the difFiculty of projecting credit
requirements and potential credit demand.
(i)   In institutional development, a number of valuable conclusions can be
reached. The experience with the Direcci6n Forestal shows the importance of timely
strengthening of institutions expected to play a key role in achieving clearly identifiable
objectives. The presence of a good legal basis (the Ley Forestal) was also of paramount
importance for the success of this component. In the case of PENTA, project experience
shows the virtue of small-scale operations, even of a pilot nature, modestly funded and
with clear aims and instruments. However, it also demonstrates that no matter how well
designed an institutional initiative may be, its effectiveness can always be limited by
inappropriate management. Despite the government's best intentions with respect to the
future of the Plan Agropecuario, neither the financial solution nor the actual impact of the
changes made have been those expected, suggesting the need for continuous monitoring
and assessing of impacts during rationalization so that the process can be adjusted as
required.
(j)    Experience under the project confirms the importance that the Bank has
recently given to the need to define closely during appraisal the precise accounting system
to be used to record project expenditures. It also confirms the need to integrate



accounting and project monitoring in such a way that the accounting process can provide
financial management information as well as historic accounting data.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3131-UR and Japanese Grant TF 026600)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The Second Agricultural Development Project was the seventh in a series of
projects aimed at providing direct stimulus and support to agricultural production in
Uruguay. The technical foundation for this support is to be found in the report2 of a joint
mfission to Uruguay by the Bank and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the
United Nations in 1950: the basic conclusion of the report was that the production frontier
of the agricultural sector in Uruguay could be massively extended via the adoption of
already-proven technology. A sequence of six projects, supported by eight Bank loans,
extended from 1960 to 1989 and promoted the adoption of prescribed investments and
technology via directed credit, with the emphasis heavily on pasture improvement and
livestock production.
2.    It is now widely accepted that insufficient attention was paid during this period to
macro-economic and sector-specific policies, which actively discriminated against
investment and the adoption of technology by seriously distorting input and product
prices, thereby greatly reducing the basic profitability of the agricultural sector and, in
particular, the livestock sub-sector. Belated recognition of the importance of these
distortions gave rise to an agricultural sector adjustment operation3 supported by the
Bank, which achieved only limited success. Nevertheless, by the late 1980s the tide of
reform was surging in favor of the agricultural sector. An Agricultural Sector Review
(ASR)4 produced by the Bank in 1988 described the achievements of reform and
emphasized the changes which were still needed to place the sector on an even footing
with the rest of the economy, itself embarked on a wide-ranging set of reforms and
adjustments which, in effect, continue to this day.
2Report of a Mission sponsored by the IBRD and the FAO at the request of the GDvenunent of Uruguay July 25,
1951.
3The Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2468-UR) of 1984.
4Te Agricultural Sector Review, Report no. 7502-UR, November 14, 1988.



2 -
3.    The identification and preparation of the project followed from the dialogue
provoked in part by the preparation and dissemination of the ASR. The process was
marked by three departures from the by-then traditional approach of the Government and
the Bank to projects in the sector. First, the dirigiste approach of restricting the
availability of credit for investment to a closely-prescribed technological package for
livestock and pastures was abandoned5, in favor of open access to the credit component to
all agricultural producers. Second, the monopoly of credit retailing by the State-owned
commercial bank, the Bank of the Republic of Uruguay (BROU), was dispensed with, in
favor of participation by all qualifying intermediate financial institutions (IFIs). Third,
institutional support was given to two emerging sub-sectors, those of forestry and non-
traditional agricultural exports, whose promotion was of specific interest to the
Government.
4.    The project outline was developed by Government officials and by Bank and
FAO/CP staff during the preparation of the ASR, and the project was prepared by a
working group' supported by a team of local and foreign consultants. Three preparation
missions were made by staff of the Bank and FAO/CP between December 1987 and
August 1988. The project was pre-appraised in September-October 1988 and appraised in
February-March 1989; the loan negotiations were held during July 1989 in Washington,
D.C. The project design was consistent with the analysis and conclusions of the ASR and
with the process of structural reform supported by the Bank (in SAL I and SAL II). The
Government's Letter of Development Policy, included with SAL II documentation,
presented a second medium-term program, 1989-1992, to follow and complement the
first. Sector development policy for agriculture identified the livestock sub-sector, non-
traditional exports and forestry as the main priorities.
5.    Project Objectives   The project was intended: (a) to increase and diversify
agricultural production and exports; (b) to encourage better use of Uruguay's natural
resources by promoting: (i) the adoption of technology in the extensive pasture areas,
(ii) the diversification of production in the more intensively-farmed southern and western
areas, and (iii) the establishment of commercial forestry in priority areas; (c) to encourage
competition in the provision of long-term agricultural credit and to increase market
influence in the determination of interest rates paid by final borrowers; and (d) to
encourage privately-financed extension services to compete with those provided by the
Government. In addition, the project was intended to encourage the modernization of
institutions, to widen the mechanisms for the supply of credit to agriculture by establishing
the Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU) as the apex lending institution, and to give enhanced
responsibility to the private sector in terms of production and of the provision of support
services to production.
5 In practice, this had been partially extended to include some cropping activities under the Agricultural Development
Project (Ln. 183 1-UR) of 1980.
6The Working Group was established by the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) of the Presidency of the Republic,
the Plan Agropecuario (Plan), and the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP).



- 3 -
6.    Project Components   The project had two major components: (a) a line of
medium- and long-term credit to finance investments such as agricultural machinery,
pasture and other ranching improvements, commercial forestry, orchard establishment and
renovation, agro-industrial processing facilities (including packing facilities), and
permanent working capital complementary to investments; and (b) institutional support to
traditional agriculture (livestock and cropping), forestry and non-traditional agricultural
export promotion.
7.    None of the objectives was modified during the implementation of the project.7
The objectives were clear and realistic; they addressed the rnain issues facing the sector, as
defined in the ASR, and were oriented towards the promotion of economic growth in the
sector. The project was not particularly demanding for the four implementing agencies
(the Central Bank - BCU, the Direcci6n Forestal, the Plan Agropecuario and the
Program of Non-Traditional Agricultural Exports - PENTA), or for the coordinating unit,
the UPCT. It was not a complex or a risky operation, and in terms of its design the
project was easily adapted to the few changes brought about by the borrower.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    The objectives of the project were concentrated in the categories of institutional
development, financial sector development, and physical results; they did not include
macro-economic or sector policy objectives. In these three areas, the achievements of the
project were substantial. The design of the project was appropriate for achieving the
objectives. However, the criteria for measuring the achievement of objectives were not
well quantified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), being restricted to key indicators
based on disbursements. The quantification of objective measures was made in a base-line
study, carried out under the project, which was completed in May, 1991. At appraisal, it
was considered that economic analysis of the project was not applicable because the bulk
of the expenditures planned under the project were destined to finance a program of
investments whose content was to be determined by individual farmers throughout the
whole agricultural sector. It is considered that the project represents the least-cost
solution to attain the objectives and benefits of the project. On-farm investment programs
were carefully designed by technicians and producers, and the institutional development
programs were modest in terms of staffing, training, use of consultants and acquisition of
goods.
7A fifth objective was implicitly included in the project in August 1991 when, at the request of the Govermment, a
new Loan Category (Category 9) and a new part of the Project Description (Part B.5) were added to the Loan
Agreement. This new objective was to strengthen the administration of and to help to modernize the MGAP,
and to create a Projects and Technical Cooperation Unit (the Unidad de Proyectosy Cooperaci6n Tecnica -
UPCT) to coordinate the implementation of the project.



-4-
Objective #1 - Increase and Diversification of Production and Exports:
9.     The last ten years has been one of the most dynamic periods in the history of
agricultural development in Uruguay. After many decades of stagnation and neglect
caused mainly by inappropriate macro-economic and sector policies, the benefits of
liberalization and continuity in policy have generated a significant response from farmers.
Investment and innovation have driven economic growth in the sector, and major
expansion and increase in production has been achieved in beef, rice, forestry, citrus and
dairy. The project can claim some part of the credit for this, in the sense of being in the
right place at the right time. The speed with which the investment credit component was
absorbed is witness to this, but the credit component was only able to fund a small part of
the fixed capital investment that occurred in the decade.
Objective #2 - Better Use of Natural Resources:
- the adoption of technology in the extensive pasture areas
10.    Since 1960, the Government of Uruguay and the Bank have collaborated
continuously in a program of investment and the search for solutions to the intrinsically
low productivity of the extensive pasture areas of Uruguay, which cover 73% of the
productive land area of the country and amount to approximately 12 million hectares.
However, due to problems related with the finance and organization of agricultural
research, practical results were slow in being transferred. Improvement was mainly based
on the establishment of conventionals pastures and some limited top-dressing and seeding
of the natural sward. The results were not always encouraging, and the main problem was
the short life of conventional pastures. However, in the last decade, dramatic results have
been obtained through new and reliable techniques and the availability of well-adapted
legumes9. This has resulted in the establishment and permanence of more than 700,000
hectares of productive cobertura pastures.
- diversification in more intensive areas
11.    As the result of a combination of many factors, there has been significant
diversification in the past decade in the areas of better soils. This has been particularly the
case of the expansion of dairy production into crop and traditional beef production areas,
resulting in the development of dairy production regional "poles" in the east, west and
north of the country. This expansion was supported by the timely construction of road
and electricity infrastructure.
8 Pasture improvement in Uruguay is based on two principal techniques. The pastura convencional involves full soil
preparation and seeding with exotic grasses and legumes. The pastura en cobertura is established by
introducing exotic species to the natural sward either by over-seeding/top-dressing or by direct seeding.
9 In particular, the fortuitous discovery of a cultivar of the introduced legume Lotus subbiflorus, which has been
named Rinc6n after the name of the estancia where it was first identified. It is assumed that it was introduced
into Uruguay in the early 1970s as an impurity in imported White Clover seed.



-5 -
12.   Rice has expanded from the east into new areas scattered in the north-east, north
and Litoral, based on the construction of small dams. The increase in the area planted to
rice has also allowed the establishment of large areas of low-cost and highly-productive
pastures on the rice stubble remaining after harvest; these pastures are used both for the
fattening of steers and for the production of clover and lotus seed, an important source of
income.
13.   In recent years, there has been a tendency to integrate livestock production
activities into traditional cropping areas. This has been particularly the case in cropping
establishments that have realized the need to diversify their production and, at the same
time, take advantage of the attractive prices of beef. This has also resulted in a positive
synergy based on the development of long ley farming'°.
14.   Sheep production has suffered seriously from the drop in the international price of
wool, which has resulted in the reduction of the national flock from 24 to 17 million head.
This has affected particularly the shallow basaltic soils of the north, where there are
currently no credible technical packages available for pasture improvement. However,
some alternatives have been successfully explored, such as intensive fat lamb production
and the expansion of exports to the traditional markets of the Middle East.
15.   Citrus production and exports have continued to grow; diversification away from
the almost-total emphasis on oranges and towards other citrus varieties, such as mandarins
and lemons, has taken place.
16.   Cereal production has experienced a process of rationalization that has resulted in
a significant drop in the number of wheat farmers. The adoption of improved cultural
practices and varieties has resulted in the doubling of average yields, although the costs of
production are still high.
17.   Until the beginning of this decade, irrigation in Uruguay was identified almost
exclusively with rice and citrus production. In the last few years, however, irrigation has
been adopted in a wide range of other activities, particularly in fruit and vegetable
production but also increasingly in the production of maize and other fodder crops for
conservation. The Bank-financed PRENADER project has been a key element in this new
approach.
18.   In recent years, the Govemment has given considerable attention to the promotion
of small-holder activities (market-gardening or granja). Aidding to the efforts carried out
by PENTA, a new project to finance production and export of fruit and vegetables is being
implemented by the Small-holder Development Project (PREDEG) with financing from
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
0 Long ley fanning can be defined as the integration of crop and livestock production through the medium- to long-
term rotation of land use between planted pasture and cultivation with crops.



-6-
- forestry in areas of priority
19.   The last ten years have seen spectacular growth in this sub-sector. The project
was able to complement the basic framework put in place by the government to promote
its development. This included a new Forestry Law approved in 1988 (which provided
inter alia for fiscal and financial incentives), the availability of an important line of credit
from BROU for plantation establishment, and the assignment to the Direcci6n Forestal of
the responsibility for planning, supervising and monitoring the forestry development
program. The felling of natural forest, which cover about 600,000 ha, was practically
prohibited under the new law, and some 2 million ha of essentially poor quality pasture
land were designated as being of forestry priority. At appraisal, it was estimated that
100,000 ha of eucalyptus and 60,000 ha of pines would be planted over eight years. By
the end of 1997, it is estimated that 237,000 ha of eucalyptus and 32,500 ha of pines had
in fact been established. Projections for the year 2005 indicate that this total of 269,500
ha will more than double.
20.   Although there has been strong interest and major investment by large multi-
national companies, over 50% of the plantation area is in the hands of small- and medium-
scale producers with areas varying between 10 and 500 ha each. The social impact has
been important and is growing; forestry employs five times as many people per hectare as
livestock production, provides considerably higher wages and is also a source of
employment for women who, in the extensive livestock areas, have little or no other
source of employment.
Objective #3 - Encouragement of Competition in Long-Term Credit Supply:
21.   From the beginning of the project, the rate of investment in sub-projects greatly
exceeded the projections made in the SAR. As a result, the disbursement of the credit
component of the Loan was completed within thirty months. A new and highly effective
system for distributing credit was introduced by the project. The BCU took on the
responsibility of functioning as a "re-discount window" and received the disbursements
from the Bank, thus bringing to an end the de facto monopoly of BROU which had
persisted in all of the Bank's previous loans in support of the sector. Participation in the
retailing of credit was opened to any financial institution which could meet a set of
established criteria, which had been developed during project preparation and appraisal in
conjunction with the BCU and the Asociaci6n de Bancos. In practice, five IFIs (including
BROU) participated in the project.
22.   At the beginning of the project, IFIs other than BROU were reluctant to
participate because of the requirement that they contribute from their own resources at
least 30% of the financing required by any given sub-project. The incentive for these IFIs
to participate received a boost early in the project's life when a significant change was
made in this requirement for sub-project financing, caused by considerations completely
extraneous to the project's circumstances. In order to compensate Uruguay for a reduced
inflow of foreign exchange anticipated as a result of the partial interruption of its exports



- 7 -
to the Middle East during the Gulf War, mechanisms were sought by the Bank to
accelerate disbursements under its loans. Accordingly, the financing requirements for a
sub-project were altered by modifying the Credit Regulation; as from May 17, 1991, a
participating IFI was no longer required to contribute its own resources to the financing
plan of a sub-project. The contribution financed from the B3ank's loan rose from a
maximum of 50% to a maximum of 80%, with the producer's contribution remaining at a
minimum of 20%. This had the overall effect of reducing the size of the investment
component of the project from a projected US$118.25 million (at appraisal) to an
estimated US$98.7 million at completion."'
23.    During the last ten years, there have been substantial changes in the financial sector
in Uruguay. In the agricultural sector, however, BROU reimains by far the most important
bank although some of the commercial IFIs have maintained their interest in short- and
medium-term lending. As far as term lending to the agricultural sector is concerned, the
most important change has been the disappearance of interest, on the part of both
borrowers and lenders, in the use of product-basket price index (PBPI or canasta)
adjustment of the value of sub-loans, and experience under the project appears to have
contributed greatly to this. In the credit component, 86% of the total was lent indexed to
the PBPIs'2 though the percentage was much higher in BROU (94.1%) than in the other
IFIs (59.8%) . Starting from early in the life of the project, the PBPIs grew at a faster rate
than the US dollar index but substantially less than the Consumer Price Index (CPI). In
general terms, sub-borrowers seem to have taken for granted that PBPI-adjusted sub-loans
would be the low-cost alternative, but did not fully anticipaLte the close connection
between product prices and the real cost of credit. For the credit component as a whole,
interest rates to final borrowers were positive in real terms, and the real interest rates paid
were higher for PBPI-indexed sub-loans than for US$-indexed sub-loans.
24.    Of the total credit component, 76.4% was on-lent by BROU, 8.7% by the Banco
Pan de Azucar, 7.4% by COFAC, 4.2% by Banco ACAC, and 3.3% by the Banco
Comercial. Sub-loans were all denominated in domestic currency, and minimum spreads
were established between the BCU and the IFIs, and between the IFIs and the sub-
borrowers, depending on the adjustment-index selected. The actual final spreads were
negotiated between the IFIs and their clients (the sub-borrowers), and were higher for the
four private IFIs than for BROU. Based on model farm budget analysis, the real rate of
interest on sub-loans varied between -2.96% and 6.55%, depending on the year and on
In practice, it is difficult to calculate the exact value of the investments made by producers under the project. The
amount in Category 1 (sub-loans) of the Bank's Loan was reduced from US$58.8 million to US$57.9 million to
create the new Category 9. In addition, the BROU not only contributed its own resources to the financing of
some sub-projects in the early part of the project but also continued to lend from its own resources once the
Category 1 fmancing was fully disbursed, including a line of credit made available to continue work on the
demonstration farms. At least one other IFI continued to lend for a brief period from its own resources once
Category 1 funds were exhausted; in both cases, the reason given was the same - that their promotion of the
credit had generated a demand from producers that they felt obliged to satisfy, at least up to a point, even
though they could no longer re-discount the sub-loans at the BCU under Ln. 3131-UR. The best estimate of the
total investment made in sub-projects is US$98.7 million.
12Livestock index: 32%; dairy index 34%; livestock/agriculture index 20%.



-8 -
the adjustment index in which the sub-loan was extended. The comparable real rates of
interest on loans by BROU from its own resources varied between -2.29% and 1.16% (for
lending in US$) and between 9.62% and 23.72% (for lending in domestic currency).
Objective #4 - The Role of Privately-Financed Extension Services:
25.   The objective was to encourage privately-financed extension services to compete
with those provided by the Government by severing the obligatory link between the
retailing of the credit by BROU and the preparation of sub-projects (for a limited range of
investments in technology) by technicians of the Plan Agropecuario. In the course of
project implementation, sub-borrowers had the possibility to make use of Plan
Agropecuario staff or to recruit private professionals. The cost of their services could be
included in the sub-project costs. In large part, because the bulk of the credit was on-lent
by BROU, which has its own technical staff but also maintained the link with the Plan
Agropecuario, the proportion of plans prepared by private professionals was very small.
An innovation under the project was the establishment of eighteen demonstration farms
(two more than the appraisal estimate), evenly distributed throughout the country and on
representative soils; on these commercial and privately-owned farms, close technical and
financial monitoring was carried out and the farms were visited by large numbers of
private producers.
Objective #5 - Modernization of MGAP, and the Establishment of the UPCT:
26.   The modification to the project's structure to allow the creation of the UPCT and
to pursue an ambitious program of modernization and restructuring of the MGAP was a
pragmatic initiative carried out by a new administration determined to effect change in
public sector management. Through the new Category 9, total expenditures from the
Loan were US$1.4 million. Activities fell into four broad categories: (a) the monitoring
and coordination of the project itself; (b) the preparation of projects and policy initiatives;
(c) training of senior management of MGAP; and (d) overseas visits by MGAP technical
staff in the area of phyto-sanitary and animal health control.
27.   The wide range of technical assistance used under Category 9 contributed
significantly to the modernization of MGAP. In the restructuring, the number of
executing units of the Ministry was reduced progressively from thirty-three to seven, and
between March 1990 and November 1997 the staff of MGAP was reduced from 4334 to
2914 without reducing the level of services provided. The coordination of the project was
significantly improved, and the UPCT formed a focal point for the executing agencies and
the IFIs. The UPCT was itself important in helping to articulate and resolve certain issues,
including those related to disbursements, procurement and accounting/financial
monitoring.



-9 -
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
- Factors not subject to Government control
28.   A number of important exogenous factors had significant influence over the
evolution of the project; the increased openness of the economy and the maintenance of
relatively stable and non-interventionist macro-economic and sector policy had the
inevitable effect of allowing the full weight of these factors to penetrate to the farming
sector.
29.   Several strongly-negative price shocks were transmtitted with important effects at
the level of producers. The international price of wool has dropped considerably during
the last four years. The effect was a sizable reduction in the size of the national flock and
a serious impact on the financial situation and profitability of many farms, particularly
those situated on the shallow soils of the northern basalt areas. The international prices of
dairy products were relatively stable during the major part of the project life, but
experienced a reduction in the latter years that led to a reduction of the producer-price of
milk; the effect of this was seen mainly among small dairy farmers. Uruguay has a strong
comparative advantage in dairy production, and it competes without export subsidies in
the world market. The impact of falling dairy prices has been: (a) to remove smaller,
marginal producers; and (b) to intensify investment and the adoption of technology by the
majority of producers in the search for lower costs.
30.   The support price for wheat in Uruguay was abandoned in the late 1980s. This,
combined with low world prices in the early part of the project, caused a massive
rationalization and drop in a number of cereal growers. However, the adoption of
technology by the remainder led to a doubling of average yields. Half way through project
implementation, a significant increase in world prices coincided with excellent growing
conditions in Uruguay to produce a short-lived boom. Among other cereals, malting
barley, which can be produced to a high quality in Uruguay, has received a significant
boost from strong overseas demand.
31.   Buoyant demand and strong, stable prices have had a significant effect in
maintaining the expansion of rice production and the development of forestry plantations.
32.   Both export and domestic markets have been changed, in some areas quite
drastically, by the creation of Mercosur and the culmination of the Uruguay Round of
GATT. This has had strong positive effects in the case of dairy, beef and rice, as well as
fruits and vegetables. More generally, the increased openness of the economy has caused
a shift in producers' appreciation of market demands, both domestic and export.
33.   Two important climatic phenomena characterized the beginning and the end of the
project's implementation. The first was the effects of the 1989 drought that badly affected
both livestock and crop producers. It emphasized once more the unreliability of rain-fed



-10-
agriculture in Uruguay, and gave a significant boost to irrigation in general and to fodder
conservation in particular. Principal among its major structural effects was a serious
depletion of the cattle population, particularly in northern Uruguay. The second was the
persistence of the weather phenomenon of "El Ninio" in 1997-1998, which had two
opposite consequences. Almost 30% of the winter cereal harvest at the end of 1997 was
lost because of excessive precipitation but, at the same time, the growth of an unusual
amount of pasture resulted in exceptional conditions and a record production of beef. As
a consequence, for the first time the price per kg. liveweight of store cattle (ganado de
reposici6n) was higher than that for finished animals. This has modified substantially,
albeit temporarily, the economics of breeding and fattening.
- Factors generally subject to Government control
34.   Against the background of increasing openness of the economy, the Government
maintained relatively stable macro-economic policy in a decade which saw two changes of
mandate between the main political parties. The most important single problem has been
the rate of price inflation, which remained stubbornly high throughout the period of
project implementation in comparison with Uruguay's neighbors and other Latin American
countries. Over the life of the project, it was steadily and substantially reduced.
35.   Sector policies have similarly been relatively stable and clear. As a net agricultural
exporter, development of the agriculture sector of Uruguay is virtually synonymous with
exports, and the increasing openness of the economy places an ever-sharper focus on
comparative advantage. Significant sector policy initiatives during the life of the project
included: (a) the complete liberalization of the export of live animals"3; (b) the eradication
of foot-and-mouth disease; (c) the liberalization of the processing and marketing of dairy
products; (d) the incentive program to establish a critical mass of plantation forest
resources; and (e) the export policy in support of non-traditional agricultural exports.
36.   Government commitment to the project has been strong throughout the whole
period of implementation. Key staff associated with the project have, in general, been
effective and committed, with the required training and experience. The availability of
counterpart funds has not presented a constraint to project implementation. However, the
administrative procedures adopted for the project were mixed. The Direcci6n Forestal
represents an excellent example of the transformation of a small, bureaucratic and
neglected entity into a well-organized, dynamic implementing agency at modest cost.
During the implementation of this sub-component, there was also a successful example of
collaboration between the Government, the Bank, and a specialized United Nations
agency, the FAO.
13 The restrictions on live animal export were one vestigial remain of the very comprehensive policy of "support via
distortions" which had been applied over the long term to the meat-packing industry (thefrigorificos) at the
expense of livestock producers; the removal of this restriction had long been sought by livestock producers.



- I1 -
37.   In PENTA, the early years were successful, in spite of the fact that the
intemationally-recruited staff who had been included in the project's design could not, in
practice, be recruited. The enthusiasm and qualifications of locally-recruited staff,
together with the strong support of foreign technical assistance in key areas, were more
than adequate to drive this sub-component forward and achieve significant progress.
However, since 1995, internal problems have had the effect of paralyzing by degrees the
work of the Technical Secretariat and, therefore, the achievement of the objectives of the
whole sub-component of support to non-traditional agricultural exports.
38.   In the Plan Agropecuario, the administrative procedures for the project were
uniform and consistently good; that this occurred within the context of major institutional
change and continuous uncertainty is the more remarkable. The staff involved in the Plan
Agropecuario were clearly focused on and committed to the institution's responsibilities
under the project, confronting problems head-on and bringiing them quickly to the
attention of the Bank.
- Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
39.   In general, management was effective to highly effective in the implementing
agencies. The BCU adapted very well to its new role of "re-discount window" of the
credit component and management of the Special Accounts. It worked closely with the
IFIs and carefully monitored their participation in the project. The Plan Agropecuario
accepted well its reduced role under the project, in comparison with earlier projects. It
gave considerable emphasis to the three activities under its responsibility (i.e.,
demonstration farms, applied research, and training). The Direcci6n Forestal was
effective in its management, particularly in the use of techniical assistance to address
emerging problems in support of private sector producers. PENTA was able to attract a
large number of small producers and organize them successfully in demanding export
promotion operations.
40.   The UPCT was created, after the start of the project, to coordinate it and to
execute a program to modernize and strengthen the management of the MGAP. The
UPCT benefited from its small size and flexibility, from its association with a "cutting
edge" activity of MGAP - the rationalization and modernization program - and from its
close proximity to the Minister and his advisors.
41.   The Closing Date of the Loan was extended twice, for a total of two years and
seven months, compared to the expected project life of seven years and one month
anticipated at Loan signing14. The major reasons for the delay in project implementation
(and the need for Closing Date extensions) were the late start-up of the program of
applied pasture research and the expansion of the program of demonstration farms beyond
14 The anticipated duration of the project between loan signing and closing was five years and six months, and
between loan signing and project completion seven years and one month.



- 12 -
the number specified in the original design of the project. By definition, very little could
be done to accelerate these activities.
D. Project Sustainability
42.   The sustainability of the project is rated as likely. The borrower's commitment is
strongly positive. Since the beginning of project implementation, the Government has
initiated several other related projects with multilateral and bilateral support. In particular,
it has included further support for both the Direcci6n Forestal and PENTA in the design
of the Bank-supported irrigation program, PRENADER. The policy environment in terms
of both macro-economic and sector-specific policy has been and remains strongly
supportive of the project's achievements.
43.   The only project-related uncertainty to sustainability is the future of parts of the
project's institutional structure. Although the Plan Agropecuario has been "privatized",
its future remains uncertain. Of more immediate concern, PENTA is currently facing a
serious management crisis which could threaten its very existence. It is important that
PENTA's effectiveness be established and a decision taken to make PENTA fully
functional once more.
44.   The physical objectives of the project have been oriented principally towards
supporting investments and the adoption of technology by private sector producers. The
maintenance of a policy environment in which many of the market signals are received
from the external sector means that the long-term economic and financial viability of
individual products cannot be guaranteed. However, an encouraging feature of the recent
evolution of the agricultural sector has been the flexibility shown by producers in adjusting
their activities, in response to market signals and relative profitability.
45.   The most significant social impact of the project has been the increase in demand
for labor provoked by the development of the forestry sub-sector and of fruit and
vegetable production. By providing an increasing number of permanent wage-earning
positions in rural areas, this impact is of considerable importance because it is helping,
albeit in a modest way, to reverse the trend, which has existed for a long time, of a
continuous rural exodus to the cities. This "emptying" of the interior of the country is of
major concern to the government, and development of the forestry sub-sector in particular
holds some promise of helping to reverse the trend in specific areas.
E. Bank Performance
Project Identification
46.   The Bank's performance in project identification was highly satisfactory. This
included close cooperation with the FAO/CP and the Government, and began with a
detailed and comprehensive ASR. The project was fully consistent with the Government's
development strategy and sector priorities, as these were defined at the end of the 1980s.



- 13 -
47.   The project followed directly from the analysis and conclusions of the ASR, and
was consistent with the process of structural reform supported by the Bank in SAL I and
SAL II. The Government's Letter of Development Policy, which was included with SAL
II documentation, presented a second medium-term program for the period 1989-1992 to
follow and complement the first. Sector development policy for agriculture identified the
livestock sub-sector, non-traditional exports and forestry as the main priorities.
48.   The project departed from previous operations that were solely concerned with
livestock development and introduced innovative activities such as forestry, and fruit and
vegetable production and exports.
Project Preparation
49.   The performance of the Bank in assisting the borrower with project preparation
was also highly satisfactory. The design of the project benefited greatly in all aspects from
the recently-completed ASR and the dialogue it provoked. There was significant
continuity of Bank and FAO/CP staff and consultants over this period, with a mix of skills
carefully selected to deal with the major issues.
50.   With respect to the adequacy of project design, the following key issues should be
mentioned:
(a) technical aspects: Very considerable experience was already available in Uruguay
concerning the potential for and constraints to development in the livestock sub-sector.
To address specific issues, highly specialized consultants were employed. In innovative
areas, such as forestry and non-traditional agricultural exports, FAOICP and the Bank
mobilized the appropriate international expertise.
(b) financial aspects: In its financial aspects, the project represented a significant
departure from previous Bank-supported operations in Unmguay. The Bank was
instrumental in making the BCU the apex lending institution, in producing a modem credit
regulation with the participation of the Asociaci6n de Bancos, and in creating a level
playing-field for the participation in credit retailing by all qualified financial intermediaries.
(c) Economic/commercial aspects: The credit component was made available to all
productive activities in the agricultural sector at the Bank's insistence, thus ending 20
years of narrow credit targeting mainly to the livestock sub-sector.
(d) Institutional aspects: The Bank placed great emphasis on the clarity and efficiency of
the key institutional requirements of the project in creating PENTA and in modernizing
the Direcci6n Forestal. However, it was unable to prevail on the issue of the
rationalization of the Plan Agropecuario.



- 14 -
(d) Environmental aspects: At the time-of project preparation, there was no requirement
to submit the project to environmental analysis. However, all of the sub-projects financed
under the project were required to have appropriate environmental analysis in their
preparation, and a number of activities carried out by the project were designed to have a
specific impact on the sustainable use of natural resources (e.g., demonstration farms and
forestry development).
Project Appraisal
51.   The Bank paid particular attention to the issue of commitment to the project. The
Government and the agricultural sector producers' organizations have had an unbroken
association with the Bank since the late 1950s. The Ministry of Economy, OPP and
MGAP followed very closely the process of appraisal, and participated with ideas and staff
in the final shape of the project.
52.   Because of its previous association with the country and the similarity of some of
the sub-components with those of earlier projects, the Bank was already familiar with the
institutional capacity and the weaknesses of some of the agencies; this facilitated the task
of institutional assessment. However, because of the uneven quality of the agencies
involved, each one was carefully examined and the conclusions led to a more specific
effort to strengthen some of the less well-performing.
53.   The project was designed in such a way that it made participation attractive for the
beneficiaries, mainly because packages consisting of credit, research, transfer of
technology, and the promotion of exports were made available to fill a gap.
54.   The project was not complex, and the Bank took great care to ensure that the
design would lead to a relatively simple process of implementation. However, the Bank
was less than critical in the recognition and evaluation of some potential project risks,
particularly in the areas of institutional weakness. The risk of failure of some elements of
improved pasture technology was also under-estimated.
55.   The use of a Japanese Grant to co-finance the project was helpful in funding a
number of innovative elements. It is clear, with the benefit of hindsight, that the size of
the investment component was inadequate, given actual credit demand and the rate of
disbursement of the component.
56.   Throughout appraisal, the Bank maintained a close relationship with FAO/CP and
introduced Japanese trust funds. The preparation of the implementation plan and
performance indicators drew on the Bank's experience in previous projects. The Bank's
experience in the previous thirty years and the lessons learned were drawn upon heavily
during the appraisal.
57.   There were no deviations from Bank policies and procedures during project
implementation.



- 15 -
Project Supervision
58.   Progress with project implementation was adequately reported. During
implementation, twelve supervision missions were fielded, and progress and problems
were periodically reported. Although the project was supervised by the same task
manager during most of the period of implementation, some missions were staffed with
specialists to deal with particular problems, such as credit, finance, and forestry. Advice
was given to the implementation agencies when required. The quality of staff involved in
supervision missions was good. Considering that the project was rated almost
continuously as "satisfactory", supervision was a smooth exercise, characterized by
flexibility and good personal relations between the task manager and Government
representatives.
F. Borrower Performance
Project Preparation
59.   Despite the fact that the Government endorsed the conclusions of the ASR, certain
areas of conflict emerged during project preparation. The debate concentrated mainly on
three points: the institutional future of the Plan Agropecuario, the viability of some of the
technical packages for pasture improvement, and the specific conditions under which
credit should be made available for on-farm investment. They were successfully resolved
during appraisal and negotiation, although the rationalization of the Plan Agropecuario
remained an area of disagreement. OPP played a crucial role in project preparation,
articulating the wishes of the agricultural sector as expressed by MGAP. A clear division
of labor emerged by which OPP was responsible for planning and budgeting of the project
while consultants, supervised by MGAP and FAO/CP staff, carried out the preparation.
The consultants staffing the project preparation team were of good professional quality
and explored a range of technical alternatives to meet the objectives of the project. The
overall quality of the exercise was satisfactory.
Project Implementation
60.   The representative of the borrower was the Minister of Agriculture. The
participating entities in project implementation were the EBCU, IFIs, PENTA, Direcci6n
Forestal and the Plan Agropecuario. The borrower's performance during implementation
should be considered satisfactory. The project had institutional development, financial
sector and physical objectives, most of which were achieved during project
implementation.
61.   BCU managed very efficiently its role as apex lending institution and operator of
the special accounts. The management and staff applied to these tasks was highly
competent and carried out activities related to project monitoring successfully.



-16-
62.   BROU and the other IFIs had a satisfactory performance; they were able to
disburse the credit component quickly and efficiently, to the extent that the period of
disbursement was half that envisaged at appraisal.
63.   PENTA was a new institution, created originally under the project on an inter-
ministerial basis. It was designed taking advantage of foreign experience, mainly Chilean,
adapted to the Uruguayan environment. The quality of its Technical Secretariat was
good, and the staff were fully committed, enthusiastic and motivated. Producers and
exporters were responsive. A rigorous selection of beneficiaries characterized the
implementation of this component. Unfortunately, since 1995 PENTA has been suffering
an internal crisis which has seriously damaged the achievement of the objectives of non-
traditional export promotion.
64.   In comparison with previous projects, the role of the Plan Agropecuario was
considerably reduced. However, it performed the task assigned to it satisfactorily in spite
of the dislocations caused by its restructuring. The Plan Agropecuario consistently
applied qualified and committed staff to the management of these activities: it was
particularly effective in the field of training, both overseas and locally, where it has
pioneered a novel approach to practical training for middle-level farm operators.
65.   The Direcci6n Forestal was transformed under the project from a small, somewhat
neglected institution into a well-organized and funded agency responsible for the provision
of technical assistance to the emerging forestry sub-sector. Under the project, the
Direcci6n Forestal had a very clear sense of purpose and resisted the temptation to grow
beyond the necessary size. It has carefully monitored sector development, not least
because it is the Government body responsible for the administration of the incentive
program for forestry plantation. It has, however, suffered from a small loss of experienced
staff attracted by the higher levels of remuneration offered by the private sector.
66.   Compliance on the part of the.Government and the implementing agencies with
major loan covenants and commitments has been satisfactory. The major short-coming
has been in the area of auditing of project accounts. MGAP has been consistently late in
submitting to the Bank the annual audit report. It is recognized that this is a problem that
affects many Bank-financed projects in Uruguay. Despite strenuous efforts, particularly
in recent years, by the UPCT to achieve the timely completion of the accounts and the
audit, the blame for this problem would seem to be equally shared between the
implementing agencies and the Tribunal de Cuentas.
G. Assessment of Outcome
67.   The project's outcome was satisfactory. The achievements of the major
objectives oriented towards physical results (i.e., the increase and diversification of
production and exports, and the improved use of natural resources) were more than
satisfactory. The achievement of the minor objectives was mixed. In the area of long-
term credit, the achievements were probably temporary, however, in large part because of



- 17 -
the structure of the financial sector. There has been, however, an increased market
influence in the determination of interest rates, and with increased macro-economic
stability the use of PBPIs to adjust loans balances and interest payments has passed into
history.
68.    Although the extent to which private extension services have grown in
competition to the public sector is limited, it should be recognized that the Plan
Agropecuario, which was the center of polemical debate during preparation and appraisal,
was "privatized" in 1995.'5
69.    Although the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its cost effectiveness in
achieving project objectives should be considered highly satisfactory. In the investment
component, individual producers supported by professional technical assistance sought
least-cost solutions in their on-farm development plans. In the institutional development
component, in which one institution, the Direcci6n Forestal,was strengthened and
another, PENTA, was created, the investments in staff, goods and technical assistance
were relatively modest and calculated carefully to achieve the objectives. For example, in
the case of PENTA no vehicles were purchased under the project. In both cases, a highly-
intelligent use was made of information technology to improve productivity. Although the
Plan Agropecuario was not a focus of institutional development objectives under the
project, following its privatization modest reallocations of project resources enabled it to
make similar investments.
70.    The sustainability of the project's achievements is judged to be likely, and most of
its objectives have been met.
Investment in the sector
71.   Investment in the agricultural sector has been strong and sustained throughout the
1990s as the result of increased market opportunities, deregulation and opening of the
economy, and the establishment and maintenance of supportive macro-economic and
sector policies. The project's investment component disbursed rapidly because of its
timely availability. In response to stable macro-economic and financial sector policy, long-
term credit at accessible market rates and conditions is now available to the agricultural
sector. It is interesting to note that other forms of long-term finance have also emerged,
for example the "managed funds" for forestry development. As further rationalization is
achieved in the financial sector, an increased integration between it and the agricultural
sector is expected to develop.
15 It was restructured as a "public non-state entity" which removed it from the operational and control orbit of
MGAP. However, for a transition period of five years it receives most of its funding from MGAP's budget,
following which it is supposed to be financially self-supporting. At present, it is not clear how (or if) this will
be achieved, which places a serious question-mark over its future.



- 18 -
Institutional Development
72.    The future of the institutions supported by the project is far from clear. The last
two decades have seen a proliferation of institutions created to channel development in the
agricultural sector. However, it seems that they have not been able always to fulfill
satisfactorily their mandate.
73.    The Direccion Forestal is a line agency of the MGAP which was itself totally
reformed under strong leadership during the life of the project. The Direcci6n Forestal has
grown in stature in step with the development of the forestry sub-sector, one of the most
dynamic in the economy. It is being supported under a follow-on operation (PRENADER)
supported by the Bank. There is no reason to doubt that it will continue to function
effectively in the future, as long as its activities remain relevant to the requirements of the
forestry sub-sector.
74.   In spite of its significant achievements in the early years of the project, PENTA is
now a considerable disappointment. Its future is clouded by uncertainty. Strong and
decisive action should be taken to resolve the management problems described above.
The functions carried out by PENTA are of considerable importance for the continued
development of a dynamic and emerging sub-sector for which there are undoubtedly many
market opportunities, as demonstrated by some of the achievements under the project.
75.    Although the Plan Agropecuario was not included in the institutional
development objectives of the project, it did receive modest support after its
reorganization. Despite the fact that one of the objectives of its re-organization was that,
after a period of five years, the budget responsibility would be transferred to the private
sector and assistance to farmers paid for; it is not clear that this approach will work, thus
potentially endangering the future of the Plan. It is, therefore, extremely important that
both the farmers' organizations (now responsible for the Plan's management) and the
Government should define and adopt as soon as possible the financial and organizational
measures that are essential for ensuring effective transfer of technology, particularly in the
more extensive beef production areas of the country.
Follow-up Operations
76.   The Bank is funding PRENADER through Loan 3697-UR, within which is
included continued support to the Direcci6n Forestal and PENTA. The flow of funds to
the Direcci6n Forestal has already begun. The initiation of support to PENTA under the
loan is subject to the independent evaluation of the program by consultants, which was
completed in March 1997, and the presentation of a proposal by the Government to the
Bank which is still awaited.
77.   The agricultural sector at the end of 1990s is very different from what it was at
the beginning. Macro-economic stability, and the deregulation and opening of the
agriculture sector have made producers aware of the opportunities and challenges they



- 19 -
face in a country now fully exposed to international markets. The Government remains
keen on the Bank's continued presence and has expressed interest in a further operation.
This project and PRENADER were both the result of sector and sub-sector reviews
carried out by the Bank and FAO/CP. Therefore, at this stage, it would be appropriate to
carry out another sector review which would, as before, analyze the constraints and
opportunities for further sector development and define the potential role of the
Government and the Bank.
H. Key Lessons Learned
78.   The most important lessons leamed from the implementation of this project were:
(a)   It is essential that proper economic and sector work should be carried out
on a regular basis to provide in-depth knowledge on the opportunities for and constraints
to economic development and other requirements of the rural sector.
(b)   The need is confirmed for the closest possible participation of
representatives of the different sub-sectors in identification and design.
(c)   The need is confirmed for early discussions with, and full involvement of,
key parts of the executive branch of the Government in project identification and
preparation.
(d)   The importance is confirmed of the Bank taLking a firm stand on key issues,
particularly at appraisal and negotiations, and of the Government doing the same.
(e)   A project start-up seminar and the preparation of an Operational Manual
would have helped to minimize some of the issues encountered particularly in the early
years of the project.
(f)    The project's design did not include a project coordinating unit, but the
value of such a unit was recognized early in implementation, resulting in the creation of
the UPCT. This unit was kept simple (it did not have a "coordinating committee" that
would have jeopardized its function). On the contrary, as it had a semi-executive role, its
performance was efficient and its process of decision-making was fast.
(g)   The experience of the project shows, once again, that good project design
must be accompanied by a stable macro-economic and sector policy environment, and that
policy interventions should be carefully tailored to relatively simple objectives.
(h)   The experience of the project confirms the decision to open up the retailing
of credit to the whole financial sector and to make investment resources available to all
productive activities in the sector. It also demonstrates the difficulty of projecting credit
requirements and potential credit demand.



-20 -
(i)   In institutional development, a number of valuable conclusions can be
reached. The experience with the Direcci6n Forestal shows the importance of timely
strengthening of institutions expected to play a key role in achieving clearly identifiable
objectives. The presence of a good legal basis (the Ley Forestal) was also of paramount
importance for the success of this component. In the case of PENTA, project experience
shows the virtue of small-scale operations, even of a pilot nature, modestly funded and
with clear aims and instruments. However, it also demonstrates that no matter how well
designed an institutional initiative may be, its effectiveness can be limited by inappropriate
management. In the case of the Plan Agropecuario, neither the financial solution nor the
actual impact of the changes made have been those expected, suggesting the need for
continuous monitoring and assessing of impacts during rationalization so that the process
can be adjusted when required.
(j)   Experience under the project confirms the importance that the Bank has
recently given to the need to define closely during appraisal the precise accounting system
to be used to record project expenditures. It also confirms the need to integrate
accounting and project monitoring, in such a way that the accounting process can provide
financial management information as well as historic accounting data, and to plan for and
monitor carefully the process of audit.



- 21 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3131-UR, and Japanese Grant TF 026600)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives       Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                     ni             iiI
Sector Policies                    n ii Fi 
Financial Objectives               El                                   1  0 1]
Institutional Development          ni                              r-1                ]
Physical Objectives                               E                                 lii
Poverty Reduction                  n                               lIi               El
Gender Issues                      n              0                F                 E
Other Social Objectives            ni             FI               El                El
Environmental Objectives                          ii               E l D
Public Sector Management           F1             F 
Private Sector Development                        iii              F        
Other (specify)                                                    F                 IA



- 22 -
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilitv            Likely                Unlikelv                 Uncertain
(/)                     (/)                      (/)
21                      L]                       II
Hlighly
C. Bank Performance                   Satisfactorv        Satisfactorv              Deficient
(/)                    (/)                      (/)
Identification                                                                    II]
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                         F]                      E
Supervision                      F                        El
Highl
D. Borrower Performance                     satisfactorv  Satisfactory    Deficient
(/)            (/)            (/)
Preparation                                2 1                           :
Implementation                             n                             D
Covenant Compliance                        F 
Operation (if applicable)                                               Iz 
Highly                                          Hihv
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactor   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
D-)            (1)              D)



- 23 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title          Purpose            Year of approval   Status
Preceding operations
1. First Livestock Project  Agricultural Credit and          1959     Closed
(Loan 245-UR)           Extension
2. Second Livestock Project  Agricultural Credit and         1965     Closed
(Loan 407-UR)           Extension
3. Third Livestock Project    Agricultural Credit and        1970     Closed
(Loan 698-UR)           Extension
(Loan 773-UR)                                              1971     Closed
4. Fourth Livestock Project   Agricultural Credit and        1972     Closed
(Loan 816-UR)           Extension
(Loan 940-UR)                                              1973     Closed
5. Fifth Livestock Project  Agricultural Credit and          1975     Closed
(Loan 1166-UR)          Extension
6. Agricultural Development  Agricultural Credit and         1980     Closed
Project             Extension
(Loan 183 1-UR)
7. Agricultural Sector Loan   Policy Adjustment              1984     Closed
(Loan 2468-UR)
Following operations
1. Irrigation and Natural  Investment in farmer-group        1994    In
Resources Management     irrigation schemes; micro-                   progress
Project (Loan 3697-UR)    catchment area natural
resource management; forestry
development



- 24 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned    J       Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Initial Executive Project                           September 7, 1988
Summary)
Preparation                                                        Dec. 1987 - Sept. 1988
Appraisal                                     February 13, 1989    Feb.13 -Mar. 4, 1989
Negotiations                                                       July 24 - 29, 1989
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)    -
Board Presentation                            June29, 1989          October31, 1989
Signing                                                            November 20, 1989
Effectiveness                                 January 15, 1990     May 11, 1990
First Tranche Release (if applicable)
Mid-term review (if applicable)
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if       |
applicable)
Project Completion                            December 31, 1996  December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                                  May 31, 1995         December 31, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal Estimate   7.3   13.1   21.4   32.5   46.5   60.6   65.0   -      -
Actual             -     11.9   34.6   59.9   62.1   63.0   63.7   64.1   65.0
Actual /Estimate, %    -  90.8  161.7  184.3  133.5  104.0   98.0   98.6  100.0
Date of Final
Disbursement    May 28,1998



- 25 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
r. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR
Estimate         Actual
1. Loan disbursements - credit   (% of total)
end of CY 1991            15.0              14.6
end of CY 1993            49.0              97.6
end of CY 1995            90.0             100.0
end of CY 1997           100.0             100.0
2. Loan disbursement - institutional support
(% of total)
end of CY 1991            37.0               5.3
end of CY 1993            69.0              38.1
end of CY 1995            94.0              69.6
end of CY 1997           100.0              90.5
3. Japanese Grant Disbursements (% of total)
end of CY 1991           41.0                6.3
end of CY 1993            79.0              58.0
end of CY 1995           100.0              70.3
end of CY 1997           100.0              92.4



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                       at Appraisal/Redefined     Status                      Impact of Study
1. Discrimination and protection in  To define what (if anything)  Completed in   Levels of protection and discrimination were found to be, in
agricultural production; a study of the   could be done to remove  July 1991  general, low and declining. Agricultural inputs and fuel were
sources and causes.               apparent remnants of                     important determinants of discrimination. Improvements were
discrimination against                  seen over the period studies (1986-1990) and it was considered
traditional exports and                 that continued opening of the economy would continue this
protection of import-                   trend; the main obstacle was excessive de facto bureaucratic
substitutes                             controls on imports.
2. Micro-regulation of the export trade,  To identify constraints in    Completed in    A large number of small but cumulatively important constraints
including technical, administrative,  export procedures     July 1991      were found to have a significant impact on the export process.
commercial and legal procedures                                            However, the (then) recently-initiated Programa Nacional de
Desburocratizaccin was working specifically on these issues,
to considerable effect. The second phase of the study,
therefore, was modified to give a more strategic dimension to
the technical, administrative, coninercial and legal procedures
of export.
3. Base-line study for physical   To prepare the basic      Completed in
monitoring and evaluation of the  "before-project" bench-   May 1991
project.                          mark data.
4. Alternative methods of achieving  To provide alternative  Completed in   The study identified only limited means to achieve the policy
the policy objectives of using product-   methods to achieve policy    September  objectives without the use of PBPIs. By the time the study was
basket price indices (PBPIs) to adjust   objectives without distorting  1992  completed and approved, the credit component was almost
the value of sub-loans to producers.    credit mechanisms.                 disbursed.



Table 7: Project Costs
l______________________                    Appraisal Estimate (1JS$M)                                Actual (US$M)
Foreign           Total          Local            Foreign            Total
Item                           Local Costs            Costs                            Costs            Costs
1. On-farm Investment                      82.8             35.5            118.3            64.1            34.6             98.7
2. Technical Assistance                     0.4               1.0             1.4              5.8            3.3               9.1
3. Training                                 2.2               5.2             7.4
4. Research                                 0.4               0.9             1.3              0.8            0.2               1.0
5. Demonstration Farms                       1.4              0.3             1.7              0.8            0.6               1.4
6. Office Establishment                      0.1              0.2             0.3              0.3            0.8               1.1
7. Salaries and Operating Costs              1.9              0.1             2.0              2.2            0.4               2.6
TOTAL                                     89.2              43.2           132.4            74.0            39.9            113.9
Table 8: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                               Actual (USSM)
Local           Foreign          Total              Local          Foreign              Total
Source                     Costs             Costs                             Costs           Costs
IBRD                            24.9            40.1              65.0             25.8              39.2           65.0
Co-financing Institution         0.2              1.6              1.8              1.4               0.7           2.1
Other Extemal Sources              
Domestic Contribution           64.1              1.5             65.6             46.8             -               46.8
TOTAL                          89.2            43.2             132.4             74.0            39.9            113.9



Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section      Covenant   Present    Original       Revised
Type      Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                      Comments
Date         Date
LA          3.01(c)                     C                                  ..the Borrower shall maintain the Executive Division (of    Complied with
the Direcci6n Forestal) and the UPCT and ensure that they
are provided ..with funds.. and other resources... including
a Director for each of them...
LA          3.02(aXI)                   C                                  The Borrower shall .... through BCU enter into a    Complied with
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each IFI on terms and
conditions set forth in the Reglamento de Credito.
LA          3.02(aXii)                  C                                  The Borrower shall .... through BCU, establish and  Complied with
maintain separate accounts to record .... amounts lent to
each IFI...
LA          3.02(b)                     C                                  The Borrower shall, through Comisi6n, enter into a  Complied with
contract with each owner of a Demonstration Farm.. for
the purpose of making available a grant under such
contract.
LA          3.02(cXI)                   C                                  The Borrower shall, through the Ministry (MGAP),    Complied with                    00
establish and maintain a Fund... to reimburse... as a grant
a share of expenditures incurred in ... a selected set of
Export Promotion Actions.
LA          3.02(cXii)                  C                                  ..... keep within the Fund separate records.        Complied with
LA          3.02(cXiii)                 C                                  .... credit the Fund ... with such amounts ...withdrawn  Complied with
from the Loan Account.
LA          3.02(cXiv)                  C                                  .... enter into contractual arrangements ... with each  Complied with
person.. or entity expected to carry out a Selected Set of
Export Promotion Actions.
LA          3.02(e)                     C                                  Take all such actions as shall be necessary ... to ensure  Complied with
that Approved Sub-loans are made in accordance with the
Reglamento (Credit Regulation).... that Demonstration
Farms are selected and implemented in accordance with
the Procedures, and all actions belonging to Selected Sets
of Export Promotion Actions are carried out in accordance
with the Fund Rules.



Agreement    Section      Covenant   Present      Original      Revised
Type      Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                 Description of Covenant                     Comments
Date          Date
LA          3.03                         C                                   The Borrower shall establish and maintain the     Complied with
Coordinating Unit .... including a Technical Secretariat
comprising a Director and two professionals.
LA          3.03(bXi)                    C                                   Furnish to the Bank for its approval not later than  Complied with
October I each year an operating plan for the following
year.
LA          3.03(bXii)                   C                                   Furnish to the Bank for its approval not later than  Complied with
October I each year a set of all documents to be used for
publicizing invitations.
LA          3.04                         C                                   Procurement of goods, works and services shall be  Complied with
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4.
LA          3.05(aXI)                    C                                   The Borrower shall ... ensure that no advance is made to    Complied with
finance any sub-loan of an agricultural producer.. .in an
amount that exceeds US$300,000 unless such sub-loan
has been previously approved by the Bank.
LA          3.05(aXii)                   C                                   The Borrower shall ... ensure that no advance is made to   Complied with
fmance any sub-loan to a sub-borrower other than an                              N
agricultural producer... in an amount that exceeds                              '..
US$500,000 unless such sub-loan has been previously
approved by the Bank.
LA          3.06                         C                                   The Borrower shall ... cause each IFI to ensure that each   Complied with
sub-loan is made under a written contract with the sub-
borrower providing... rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank.
LA          3.07(a)                     CP       5/11/1991                   The Borrower shall... ensure that the studies under Parts   The studies were
Dl, D2 and D4 are completed not later than one year  completed in July 1991
after the Effectiveness Date.                     (Dl and D2) and in
September 1992 (D4).
LA          3.07(a)                     CP       6/30/1990                   The Borrower shall ensure that study under Part D3 is  The study was completed
completed not later than June 30, 1990.           in May 1991.
LA          3.07(b)                      C                                   The Borrower shall .submit to the Bank for commnents   Complied with
the fndings and recommendations of each study.
LA          3.07(c)                      C                                   The Borrower shall.... discuss said findings and   See comments in
recommendations and put into effect such          Table 6.
recommendations as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.



Agreement    Section      Covenant  Present    Original        Revised
Type      Status    FulMfilment   Fulfillment                Description of Covenant                     Comments
Date          Date
LA          3.08(a)                     C                                  The Bofrower and the Bank hereby agree to undertake  See Comments in
consultations on (A) fiscal cost to the Borrower of making   Table 6
credit available.... for financing Part A (credit)... or for
other credit lines for the same or closely similar, purposes
financed from other sources; (B) whether the demand for
sub-loans has been affected by factors under the control of
the Borrower, (C) the findings under D4 and measures.
LA          3.08(b)                     C                                  The Borrower and the Bank.. will determine whether  Complied with
changes to the Reglamento or credit policies are
warranted.
LA          4.01(a)                     C                                  The Borrower shall maintain separate records and    Complied with
accounts in respect to the project.
LA          4.0 l(bXi)                  C                                  The Borrower shall have the records and accounts audited   Complied with. Audits are
by independent auditors.                            late in part                   U
because of the pressure        o
work under which the
Tribunal de Cuentas
operates.
LA          4.01(bXii)                  C                                  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the report of such   Complied with
audit.
LA          4.01(bXiii)                 C                                  The Borrower shall furnish... other such information as the  Complied with
Bank shall request.
LA          4.01(cXl)                   C                                  For all expenditures made on the basis of SOEs, the  Complied with
Borrower shall maintain records and accounts.
LA          4.01(cXii)                  C                                  For all expenditures on the basis of SOEs, the Borrower    Complied with
shall retain all records evidencing such expenditures.
LA          4.01(cXiii)                 C                                  For all expenditures.. on the basis of SOEs, the Borrower   Complied with
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
LA          4.01(cXiv)                  C                                  For all expenditures.. on the basis of SOEs, the Borrower   Complied with
shall ensure... such records and accounts are included in the
annual audit.



Agreement    Section      Covenant  Present    Original          Revised
Type      Status    Fulfillient   Fulfillment                 Description of Covenant                        Comments
Date          Date
LA           5.0 l(aXI)                  C                                   The Borrower shall cause each Agency to take out ...  Complied with
insurance consistent witi appropriate practice.
LA           S.0l(aXii)                  Cc                                  The Borrower shall cause each Agency to carry out its  Complied with
operations.. in accordance with sound.. .practices under the
supervision of qualified. ..management assisted by
competent staff.



-32 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                          Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle                                _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _   _  _      _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _
Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$         Weeks        USS
Preparation to Appraisal                                                                               39.1          84.3
Appraisal-Board                                                                                         30.2        67.6
Negotiations through Board Approval                                                                     6.1          14.6
Supervision                                                                                            88.6         249.0
Completion                                                                                              9.0         30.0
TOTAL                                                                                                 173.0       445.8
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of         Days in        Staff Skills      tation          ment          Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field        Represented        Status        Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal      Feb.'89     7           24            Livstck
Agronomist
Forestry Spec.
Fin. Analyst
Appraisal through      April       2                         Economist              _
Board Approval                                               Fin.IAnalyst
Supversion 1           March 90   1            7             Ag. Economist          1               1            None
Supervision 2
Supervision 3          Sept. 91    1           6             Fin. Analyst            1              1          Slow audit
Supervision 4          Nov. 92    2            7             Fin. Analyst           1               1            Report
Agronomist                                       disbursement
not well
organized
Supervisiont 5
Supervision 6          Nov. 93     1           7             Ag. Economist          I               1            Pasture
research
_____________ delays
Supervision 7          March 94   3            8             Ag. Economist           I              I
Forester
Supervision 8          Oct. 95
Supervision 9          Oct 96      1           8             Ag. Economist          S               S
Supervision 10         Jan. 97     1           8             Ag. Economist          S               S           Financial
Performance
Supervision 11         July97      1           7             Ag. Economist          S               S
Completion             May98       2           15            Ag. Economist                                                  I
Agr. Livestock



- 33 -
APPENDIX 1
Borrower Contribution to the ICIt
1.    The Second Agricultural Development Project is the seven in a row that initiate on the
early 1960s as a result of a joint mission World Bank / FAO. The first five projects were oriented
to support the livestock sector through supervised credit and technical assistance. The sixth one,
besides the support to the livestock sector, give support to the dairy and mixed farms using the
same tools that the previous ones.
2.    For the identification of this specific Project it was fundamental an agricultural sector
study done in 1987. As a result of this sector study new areas were included in the project.
3.    The main objectives of the Project, stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were (i)
increase agricultural output, especially that of export products, by providing long-term financing
for farm development and agro-industry, and institutional support in key areas. In addition, the
project would promote increased efficiency in agricultural lending and the provision of technical
assistance.
4.    The credit component was open to the agricultural and agro-industry sector without any
restriction but a technically, economically and financial viable project.
5.    The loans were channeled to sub borrowers through any financial institution (IFI). The
requirement was to sign a solidarity loan agreement with the BCU, and meet some conditions
established in the Loan Agreement. In the previous loans, the only IFI participating was the state
owned Banco de la Repuiblica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU).
6.    The Project has a component of Institutional Support to the traditional livestock and
cropping sub-sectors, to the forestry and the non-traditional agricultural export promotion.
7.    In 1991 the Loan Agreement was amended to include support for a Project Coordinating
Unit and collaborate with a restructuring program being implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (MGAP).
8.    The Executing Agency was the MGAP, and the Project was implemented by the Central
Bank of Uruguay (BCU) in the sub loans area, the Plan Agropecuario (PLAN) for the traditional
livestock crop area, the Forestry Directorate for the forestry related aspects and for the Non
Traditional Agricultural Export Promotion Program (PENTA) for the aspects related to export
promotion.
9.    The total loan amount was 65 millions of United States dollars and has an associate
Japanese grant of 250 millions of Japanese yens, equivalent to 1.8 million United States dollars.
10.   The main component was the credit component that accolnted for near the 90% of the
total loan amount.



- 34 -
11.   The Loan Agreement established May 31, 1985 as a loan closing date, but two extension
were accorded with the Bank. The first one extended the Project life until December 31, 1996
and the second to December 31, 1997.
Project implementation and major achievements of the Project.
Credit component.
12.   The funds allocated to the credit component were disbursed in less that three years. The
original estimation was for five years and in the SAR, credit demand was stated as one of the
Project risks.
13.   The participation of the private IFI's was limited but four private IFI's plus the state owned
BROU participated in the in the Project. The sub loans channeled through the BROU accounted
for more than 76% of the total sub loans amount in Uruguayan pesos and for 80% of the
rediscounted amount on the BCU.
14.   The index for the sub-loans adjustment was elected by the sub borrowers between the US
dollar evolution, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the Product Basket Price Index (PBPI). In
the last the use of one of the three available PBPI, Livestock Price Basket, Dairy Price Basket or
Mixed Livestock Crop Basket, has a direct relation with the production output generated by the
Sub-Project.
15.   The 86% of the sub-loans was indexed using PBPI, 13% using the dollar index and 1%
using the CPI index.
16.   The investments financed were diverse but equipment and livestock accounted for and
65% (equipment 34% and livestock 31%), infrastructure 7.8% and pastures 7.3%. The remaining
20% correspond to fences, water points, forestry, etc.)
17.   The real interest rate for PBPI indexed sub-loans, could be estimated positive (around
2%).
Institutional Support
18.   PENTA Program. A private consultant firm evaluated the PENTA as previous condition
for its incorporation to the Irrigation and Natural Resource Management Project. For this reason,
PENTA was excluded from the last extension of the Project closing date. The Bank didn't send
any formal communication related to the conclusion of the financing PENTA activities under the
Loan Agreement 313 1-UR, but the borrower accepted the reallocation of the remaining founds in
the PENTA assigned categories.
20.   The conclusions of the evaluation are very favorable for PENTA. The survey developed
among the PENTA beneficiaries qualified the performance of PENTA as positive or highly
positive. Most of the beneficiaries recognize an improvement in his exporter profile after being
PENTA beneficiaries and the majority initiated exportations after his relationship with PENTA.



- 35 -
21.   The analysis of the value of non-traditional agricultural exports related to the total exports
shows the marginal importance of the non-traditional exports. Nevertheless for the 1990-96
period, the growing rate of non-traditional agricultural exports was higher than the rate for total
exports. PENTA is in part responsible for this increase, because the impact comes from items
that have received a strong support from the program.
22.   The report mention the low use of founds, related to total amount available, and the main
reason is due to some beneficiaries that didn't use the full amount assigned to them. The main
adversity for the PENTA was the 1994/95-export experience of sweet onions to the United States
market. After two years of successful pilot experience, in 1994/95 PENTA promotes a
commercial export and was involved in the whole operation. Neither the structure of PENTA nor
the technical capacity was prepared for such type of activity. The main role of PENTA has been
as a facilitator but not operator of exports. Besides this bad experience, the main objective to
open new markets for sweet onion was done.
Forestry component
23.   In 1988 was passed a new Forestry Law with two main purposes, to preserve the natural
forest and to promote the development of commercial forestry, given fiscal incentives plus a
partial reimbursement of the planting costs.
24.   The Project supported the forestry development through the credit component and the
institutional component.
25.   The credit component was not used by the forestry sector, because BROU put in the
market a competitive credit line with a more adequate debt service.
26.   The target of 160,000 new-planted hectares in eight year, doing at the time of Project
appraisal under estimated the response to this new activity.
27.   The figures gathering by the Forestry Directorate, shows an increase of 30,000 ha of new
forestry area per year as an average for the 1990-19997 period.
28.   The institutional component assisted the Forestry Directorate with training, foreign
specialists in key areas, applied research and equipment.
29.   Traditional livestock cropping sector. The Honorary Commission of the Plan
Agropecuario (PLAN) implemented this component. There was a change respect to the six
anteceding projects when the PLAN was the apex institution.
30.   The performance and roll of the PLAN was analyzed in the 1988 ASR, detecting a sharp
declining in the level of activity. At the time of Project negotiation the Bank asked for a
rationalization of this MGAP executing unit. There was no agreement in this matter and for this
reason, the PLAN didn't get any direct assistance, but was responsible for the implementation of
three sub components of the Project, (i) Demonstration Farms, (ii) Applied Research and (iii)
Training.



-36 -
31.   Seventeen Demonstration Farms were implemented in the livestock area of the country
with very success, from which seven already finish the contractual relationship with the PLAN,
one contract was resigned and the last nine remaining under contract. They have been used as
extension tools, with acceptable results.
32.   Applied Research were contracted with the National Agricultural Research Institute
(INIA), the University (Faculty of Agronomy and Faculty of Veterinary) and the National Meat
Institute (INAC). These contracts were in areas not covered by the formal research and most of
the results were transferred immediately to the farmers.
33.   The training sub component was used to provide specialist in key areas, training of some
PLAN technicians, but the most important activities were the training of future Agricultural
Managers, oriented to young people and implemented abroad, and local country training oriented
to farmn foremen, in conjunction with farmers associations.
34.   The PLAN changed his status and became a private institution in 1996, and for the first
five years the government will support this new institution with public founds. In the year 2000,
the PLAN will have to charge the services provided to cover the annual budget.
35.  In 1994 the Bank accepted to assist directly the PLAN with a small amount to collaborate
with the equipment necessary for the newly institution.
Projects and Technical Cooperation Unit (UPCT)
36.   The UPCT was not included in the original design of the Project. In 1991 the Borrower
asked for a Loan Agreement amendment to crate the UPCT, with two main objectives: (i)
coordinate the Project execution and (ii) coordinate a program designed to modernize the MGAP.
The results of this new and small Unit in the Ministry structure were impressive. The UPCT
selects and contracted specialists for all the key areas in the modernization process and as a result
improvements in the management process of the whole MGAP were achieved.
37.   In the last MGAP restructuring UPCT was included as a permanent unit at Minister advice
level.
Bank performance
38.   The performance of the Bank could be rated as a satisfactory in all the Project phases.
The participation in the identification phase was one of the most important and assured a Project
with sound components.
39.   In the implementation phase, the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower were
correct, with open lines in both sides. The Loan Agreement was amended in various occasions to
adapt the Project to the real necessities of the Borrower, as the two extensions in the closing date
requested by the Borrower.
40.   There were only a few problems in the implementation stage.



-37 -
41.   The account system was developed at the very beginning of the Project and approved by
the Bank. At mid time the Bank request for the account to be presenrted in another format
approved by the Bank after the Loan Agreement signature. The audited account were sent to the
Bank systematically later, but was not caused by this requirement.
42.   The last extension in the closing date PENTA was excluded, but the BANK didn't send
any official communication announcing such exclusion. The only action was to suggest the
Borrower to reassign the remaining found in the PENTA assigned categories.
43.   The management of the accounts of the associated Japanese grant was impractical and
caused a lot of confusion. The account balance denominated in different currencies, Japanese
yens at Bank level and United States dollars al BCU level complicated things to the level that at
the end of the Project with a null real balance in the grants accounts, the Bank balance shows a
positive balance of more than three million Japanese yens.
Borrowers performance
44.   The Borrower performance was in general acceptable. It was a compliance with all the
legal covenants, and the only remarkable shortcoming was the delay in submitting the audited
Project accounts. The Borrower was systematically later.
45.   There was a delay in implementing the applied research and the demonstration farms in the
traditional livestock cropping institutional component.
46.   PENTA use only around the 55% of the total assigned founds.
Conclusions
47.   The Project was successful in all the phases. In the identification phase the Bank
assistance was very useful and the 1987 ASR was fundamental.
48.   In the preparation, appraisal and negotiations phases, the actions of both the Bank and the
Borrower could be rated as highly satisfactory.
49.   The fluent communications between the Bank and the Borrower at implementation phase
and frequent and good scheduled supervision missions assured a good project execution and
helped to detect problems and solve then almost immediately.
50.   The main objectives were achieved and the results obtained are likely to be sustainable
over the time.



-38 -
APPENDIX 2
The Forestry Sub-Sector
Introduction
1.    Until ten years ago, Uruguay was not a country interested in forestry. Its main activity
was livestock production and some cropping, mainly winter cereals and rice. It is endowed with
more than 15 million ha of grassland, and trees were planted only for shade and shelter purposes.
In 1990, the area of natural forest and woodland was 608,000 ha, situated mainly along the rivers
and water courses. The natural forest does not have any industrial use. There were also 190,000
ha of plantations scattered around the country, and the main species were eucalyptus and pine.
Along the Rio de la Plata and the Atlantic coast, pine plantations were established forty years ago,
mainly for sand-dune stabilization and recreational purposes. Between 1975 and 1989, 30,000 ha
were planted and used for industry. Average yields of the old plantations was 15 cubic meters per
year. The forest industry base was limited to small paper plants, with good technology, and
sawmills were few, small, and with old and inefficient equipment.
2.    Wood consumption in 1990 was 2.8 million cubic meters, of which 70% was used for
energy, 27% for industry and 3% for export. Industry used 13% for paper production and the
remainder for sawn wood, furniture and peeled logs. The main exports were in the form of pulp
(82,000 tons) and paper and cardboard (almost 12,000 tons). Sawn wood was barely 2,000 tons.
Total exports amounted to US$13 million whilst imports of forest products in 1990 were of the
order of US$40 million.
3.    When the Second Agricultural Development Project was appraised by the Bank, three
important factors appeared simultaneously. The first was the recent approval of a good Forestry
Law that set the basis for sound development based on exports and supported by a coherent
promotional policy framework, including fiscal and financial incentives and the determination of
areas of forestry priority. The second was the establishment of an important credit line by the
Bank of the Republic of Uruguay (BROU) for plantation establishment and wood harvesting on
reasonable terms and conditions. The third was the decision to strengthen a then very small
technical unit (the Direcci6n Forestral) within the Ministry of Agriculture (MGAP) and to assign
to this unit the role of planning, supervising and monitoring a rather ambitious forestry
development program.
Ten Years of Forestry Development
4.    In theory, Uruguay was always concerned about the need to take forestry problems
seriously. Children were taught about the importance of trees and the need to preserve the limited
resources that were available. However, the country had no forestry tradition. Tree planting and
the establishment of small areas of woodland as part of infrastructure for better cattle handling
(e.g., shade, windbreaks, wood for posts and rural construction) were encouraged, but with
limited results. The use of wood as a partial substitute for oil in the production of energy (which
received a boost following the oil-price shocks of the 1970s) and as the main source for pulp and
paper were then the only objectives. The rate of plantation seldom exceeded 2,000 ha per year.



- 39 -
5.    The new Forestry Law was approved in 1988; the main purpose was to preserve the
natural forest and to give incentives for commercial forestry development in areas of declared
forestry priority. Regarding natural forests, emphasis was given to their conservation; felling was
practically prohibited, and management had to be carried out through a Plan supervised by the
Direcci6n Forestal. For commercial plantations, the law was regulated with well-defined
mechanisms to provide financial incentives for commercial tree planting and tax exemptions to
forestry-related activities. The incentives are summarized as follows:
*  Exemptions from land-based taxes on forested areas.
*  Partial reimbursement of planting costs (a grant of up to 20-50% of the standard
costs). 16
*  Special credits made available by the BROU for establishing forest plantations (up to
80% of the real costs), loans in US$ at Libor + 1.5% with a ten-year grace period.
*  Exemption from import tax for machinery to be utilized for wood harvesting and
processing.
6.    On the basis of their natural resource endowment, areas considered to be of "forestry
priority" were defined. These responded to some key parameters such as soils, topography,
proximity to railways, etc. In order to secure good plantation results, the best species to be
established were identified and promoted (mainly Eucalyptus grandis and saligna, and Pinus
elliouti and taeda), based on part performance and research results. Priority was given to growth,
adaptation to local conditions and market demand. Out of the 4.5 million ha of land suitable for
forestry, 2 million ha have been declared as priority for forestry development. These areas have
mainly sandy soils and gentle rolling hills. The natural vegetation is exclusively grassland and
small shrubs.
7.    The BROU supports forestry activities through a line of credit for the establishment of
different types of plantations. It finances up to 80% of the Investment Plan, which has to be
submitted and approved by the Direcci6n Forestal. By the end of 1996, the establishment of
73,000 ha had been financed through this line for a total of US$25 million. The majority of the
operations financed by BROU have been for medium- and small-size plantations (between 10 and
500 ha), and 25% are situated in the center and north of the country.
8.    The Direcci6n Forestal was strengthened through the institutional support component of
the Second Agricultural Development Project in order to give the best possible assistance to the
forestry programs. The Direccion Forestal has excellent leadership and good staff. Its
headquarters are in Montevideo with two regional offices, one in Tacuaremb6 (covering Rivera,
Tacuaremb6 and Durazno) and the other in Young (to serve Paysanduj, Rio Negro, and Soriano).
These two offices supervise the largest area of land defined as forestry priority, and Montevideo
serves the southern part of the country. The main objectives of the :Direcci6n Forestal have been
the following:
16 The actual net incentive is of the order of US$184 per ha, payable one year after the plantation's establishmnent. It has to be
certified by the Direcci6n Forestal, and the rate of survival should be not less than 75%.



- 40 -
*  To promote forestry development through research, transfer of technology, and
publicity.
*  To study and plan national forestry development by analyzing its costs, prices and
markets and to monitor its progress in plantations and processing.
*  To encourage and plan forestry in private and public land.
*  To increase and improve plants and seed production for forestry purposes.
*  To assist public and private enterprises in the rational management of natural and
planted woodlands.
*  To organize woodland protection against diseases, parasites and other causes of
destruction.
*  To coordinate with the local fire brigades the protection against fire hazards.
*  To develop research programs in forest ecology, forest exploitation and forest
industries in collaboration with other entities.
*  To coordinate with municipalities all activities associated with the promotion of
forestry development.
During the last eight years, the Direcci6n Forestal has been able to fulfill its terms of reference
efficiently. The different steps related to forestry development, from the definition of the priority
area to the specific problems related to planting, supervision, plant protection, etc., have been
carried out with a limited number of technicians and modest budget. Its latest effort, the creation
of a System of Forestry Information, an elaborate but practical instrument for monitoring the
whole forestry sub-sector, is in progress and covers now more than 60% of natural and planted
forest.
9.    At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that 100,000 ha of eucalyptus would be planted
during eight years. By the end of 1997, the available data indicate that, over the eight years,
237,000 ha of eucalyptus have been planted, an average of some 30,000 ha per year. During the
same period, 32,500 ha of pines were established, mainly in the north, at an average of 4,000 ha
per year. Today, the total area under planted species is more than 270,000 ha; effective plantation
exceeded the appraisal forecast by more than 170%. Projections for the year 2005 indicate that
the area planted will be 550,000 ha.
10.   The areas now covered by new plantations closely approximate the areas declared as
forestry priority (i.e., the north-east, the center and the west). Less than 50% of the plantation
area was developed by large foreign or multi-national companies. The size of private plantations
varies from 10 to 500 ha. All of the Eucalyptus grandis is being used for pulp, and 50% of
Eucalyptus saligna for rolls. Pines are being utilized for sawn-wood. Wood is now exported to
18 countries, amongst which Spain and Scandinavia are the most important. The main products
are pulp-wood (467,000 tons), sawn-wood and paper.
11.   The social impact of forestry has been important. Forestry employs five times more labor
per ha than livestock production, and salaries paid in activities related to forestry are 25% higher
than in livestock. Forestry is employing an important number of women who otherwise have no
other source of work in the rural areas. Benefits and salaries are considerably higher in forestry
than in livestock production, and this has had an important impact in the rural economy.



- 41 -
Conclusions
12.   The combination of an intelligent and pragmatic Forestry Law, the availability of credit at
reasonable terns and the consolidation of a well-managed and staffed Direcci6n Forestal has had
and will continue to have a very important role. The combined effects of these three elements
resulted in:
*  A critical mass of plantations which can form the base for a competitive, export-
oriented wood-processing industry.
*  An instrument to control the establishment of new plantations and to direct it to areas
which are most favorable from the land-use planning and social development point of
view.
* An indication to investors, both local and international, that the Government is
committed to long-term forestry development. A drastic departure from this support
would have serious detrimental effects, especially on industrial development. It is,
therefore, essential that any phasing-out or reduction of incentives should be gradual
and with proper advance announcements.
*  Long-term support to land-owners to manage their plantations in a sustainable manner.
* A system which brings very good returns from a fiscal point of view. The incentive
package has helped land-owners to adopt a more profitable form of land use. The
state, in the long term, will have a rate of return of about 22% on its "investment" in
incentives and tax exemptions, mainly from tax revenues generated by the new
enterprises.



- 42 -
APPENDIX 3
The Livestock Sub-Sector
Introduction
1.    Out of a total of 18.7 million ha of territory, Uruguay has 16.6 million ha that can be used
for agricultural purposes; of this, recent figures indicate that 15.5 million ha are used for livestock
production. The beef cattle population is 10.5 million head, of which 3.5 million head are
breeding cows; these numbers have remained constant over the last five years. The national sheep
flock has considerably decreased during the same period, from 23 to 17 million head. The dairy
herd, which is accounted separately, totals 662,000 head. The total livestock population expressed
in livestock units"7 is 12.2 million.
2.    Total annual beef production is estimated at 857,000 tons live-weight. The extraction rate
during recent years has been around 18-19 %, equivalent to 2.06 million head slaughtered each
year, the majority steers and cows. Age at slaughter, particularly of steers, has decreased
considerably, and herd composition shows a definite increase in younger animals. Weaning rates
have remained static, at around 60%. Present productivity expressed in terms of meat-equivalent
(which includes the production of beef, wool and mutton, and dairy) is of the order of 79 kgs live-
weight equivalent per hectare, an increase of 20% in the last ten years.
3.    Dairy has shown a notable success. Total milk production has almost doubled to more
than 1,200,000 tons a year. Milk output per lactation increased from 1.7 tons to almost 2.9 tons,
the number of cows milked per property went from 28 to 42 head, and productivity increased
from 800 to 1,400 liters per ha. At the same time, the number of dairy farmers decreased from
7,100 to 5,800.
4.    These figures are the result of several factors, amongst which are a better nutrition base, a
more efficient management system (particularly in the dairy farms), and more effective animal
health control, especially in the beef herds.
5.    Sheep production has decreased in the last five years as a consequence of a serious
reduction in wool prices. Uruguayan wool is of good quality, and is exported mainly in the form
of tops.
6.    It has been estimated that the area of improved pastures is around 2.2. million ha,
representing 14% of the area dedicated to livestock production (including dairy). Approximately
500,000 ha of pasture are established each year, (which includes conventional pasture, over-sown
pasture, and short leys such as rye grass and red clover).
17 One livestock unit is quivalent to .......



- 43 -
Livestock Development and the Bank
7.    The Bank's association with livestock development in Uruguay dates from the early 1950s
when a joint Bank and FAO mission produced a diagnosis of the sector, underlining the main
limiting factors and proposing a basic strategy to tackle its stagnation. The first loan was signed
in 1959 with the purpose of modernizing livestock production. The main approach was the
adoption of supervised credit, with particular emphasis on pasture iimprovement and management.
It was considered at the time that the examples of Australia and New Zealand were the most
appropriate to fit Uruguayan conditions, and that priority was to be given to the establishment of
permanent pastures based on grasses and legumes, top-dressed with phosphate fertilizers. An
autonomous organization, the Comisi6n Honoraria del Plan Agropecuario, was created within the
Ministry of Agriculture to be responsible for the project's impleme:ntation.
8.    Although the farmers' response was enthusiastic at the beginning, the project experienced
serious technical problems particularly with the establishment and persistence of cultivated
pastures. At the time, agriculture research was disorganized, understaffed and facing a difficult
financial situation, and was not, therefore, in a position to provide the necessary guidance. On-
farm investments were mainly in fences, water points, farm machinery and breeding cattle; only an
average of 20% of the value of sub-loans were invested in pasture improvement. During project
implementation, particular attention was paid to the problems of establishing "conventional"
pastures and very little to their utilization by breeding cattle. They were utilized mainly for
fattening purposes, from which quicker and higher returns were obtained.
9.    Five other projects followed, amounting to US $165.0 million of Bank loans and US$
403.0 million in total project costs. Although their performance was considered satisfactory, the
main problem remained; the pastures' short life (4 years, instead of the expected 6-7 years) and
the related weed invasion, particularly of Bermuda grass (Cynodon dactylon). Pasture
management and utilization improved considerably, but little attention was given to the nutritional
requirements of the breeding herd. The result was that one of the most important production
parameters, the weaning rate (the number of calves weaned each year from 100 cows), remained
unaltered. Only in recent years were the principles of herd management, aiming at higher
conception rates, incorporated in the extension programs of public and private institutions. Even
today, problems associated with the short persistence of conventional pastures have not always
been successfully resolved. The utilization of glyphosate herbicides, the progressive introduction
of zero-tillage, and the use of direct-seeding is solving part of the problem.
10.   In the early years (during the 1960s and 1970s), besides the conventional pastures, other
approaches were adopted such as the top dressing of natural grasslands with phosphate fertilizer
or the introduction of legumes in the natural sward using the Australian-designed "sod-seeder".
The results were mixed. Native pastures in Uruguay are mainly of spring and summer growth and
the serious forage deficiency occurs in winter. Natural pastures fertilized with phosphate
improved their production in spring and summer, but the basic problem of deficient fodder supply
in winter remained. The introduction of winter-growing legumes in the sward proved to be a
difficult task, as some of the exotic species (such as Subterranean clover) did not persist for more
than two or three years (mainly because of nodulation problems). The natural sward, in general,
was too aggressive to allow the successful establishment of slow-growing permanent legumes like
White Clover and Lotus corniculatus.



- 44 -
11.   In recent years, and in some parts of the country, a successful approach has been adopted.
It consists of over-sowing a mixture of legumes, mainly Lotus and White Clover, with no less
than 80 or 100 units of P205 after intensive grazing to reduce the presence of natural species.
Particular attention is paid to inoculate the seed with the right type of rizobium to avoid the
nodulation problems that in the past led to poor persistence. The following spring, the mixture
gives an important mass of forage, followed by reseeding, mainly of Lotus. The mixture
integrates well with the natural grasses, and after a few years (and periodic dressing with
phosphate fertilizer) a change in botanical composition favoring the most productive species of
the natural grassland can be observed.
12.   Over the last eight years, a new specie, Lotus subbiflorus, has been identified and
developed in Uruguay under the name of Lotus Rinc6n. Found by chance as an impurity in White
Clover seed imported from New Zealand, it is an annual legume, very well adapted to the
Cristalino and sandy-gravel soils of central and eastern Uruguay. It produces a great amount of
seeds and, when properly inoculated, it integrates very well with the natural species. It responds
positively to phosphate fertilizers, and its annual production of dry matter is of the order of eight
tons per ha, mainly in the spring. Although it is not the best solution to solve the winter forage
deficiency, its massive spring production can be harvested for hay to be distributed during the
critical winter months. The use of Lotus Rinc6n as the principal legume for over-sowing is being
widely adopted in the extensive, poor grassland of the center and eastern parts of the country
because it is easy to establish, produces a reasonable volume of forage and seed, improves the
performance of the natural species, and perpetuates itself easily. It is estimated that more than
500,000 ha of Lotus Rinc6n have been successfully established. This development can be
considered the major breakthrough of the last forty years in the search for solutions to pasture
problems in Uruguay.
13.   In recent years, several important developments have contributed to improve the livestock
situation in the country. The eradication of Foot-and-Mouth Disease was the result of the
tenacious efforts of Ministry of Agriculture with the assistance of regional institutions and severe
legislation. Hitherto, it had been responsible for serious economic losses and trade restrictions;
now Uruguay is able to export to the United States, a very important market.
14.   A better understanding of the nutritional requirements of the herd and the adoption by the
most progressive farmers of improved herd management systems have also been major factors.
Simple but essential practices such as " temporary weaning", early pregnancy diagnosis, mating
heifers at two years of age, and selecting bulls by their reproductive capacity, have resulted in an
increase of conception rates from 60% to 86%. Although these results have been attained only by
the best farmers, their example seems to be followed by others as long as there is a reasonable
amount of fodder available, something now possible with the over-sowing of legumes. Forage
availability and its utilization during winter has been further enhanced by the adoption of low-cost
conservation practices, principally hay-making and silage.
15.   Another development that affects positively the rate of pasture improvement is the recent
increase in pasture land values as a consequence of important purchases of land for forestry
purposes. This has resulted in a doubling of land prices in the last five years (from US$250 to
US$500 per ha.). At the same time, the cost of pasture improvement by over-sowing has been



- 45 -
considerably reduced (from US$250 per ha for conventional pastures to US$60 for over-
sowing). This has resulted in a more dynamic process of adoption of over-sowing and, as a
result, a significant increase in fodder availability.
16.   Dairy production has continued to expand, although recently prices have been affected by
export restrictions (particularly to Brazil) and by internal problems in the most important milk
processing/marketing institution, the cooperative CONAPROLE. A positive development has
been the presence of some multi-national processing firms that have opened up the market and
ended the de facto monopoly of CONAPROLE.
17.   Expansion of the dairy sector has been both horizontal and vertical. The area has
expanded through the penetration of dairy production into areas traditionally dedicated to crops
or to beef cattle breeding and fattening. This has been accompanied by the development of road
and electricity networks, and has resulted in the creation and expansion of important milk-sheds
around Paysandu, Melo, Salto, Mercedes, Colonia, and Maldonado. There has also been a
continuous improvement in milk yields, in liters per cow and per ha, to the extent that today yields
of 3,000 liters per ha are not uncommon in the most efficient farms. This has been accompanied
by the disappearance of many small dairy farmers, who find it difficult to compete in a situation in
which cost increases are not compensated by an improvement in milk prices.
18.   Six institutions are involved in livestock development. These are the National Agricultural
Research Institute (INMA), dealing with research, validation and transfer of technology; the
Instituto Plan Agropecuario (the main livestock extension organization); the Uruguayan Wool
Secretariat (SUL), responsible for sheep production; the Uruguayan Federation of Regional
Agricultural Experimentation Groups (FUCREA), a private institution involved in extension and
economnic research; the National Milk Producers' Cooperative (CONAPROLE), dealing
exclusively with dairy farmers; and the National Livestock Development Program
(PRONADEGA) a recently-created institution in the process of organizing livestock extension for
small farmers in the eastern part of the country. The total annual budget of the six institutions is
of the order of US$ 15 million.
Challenge and Perspectives
19.   Estimates from a study carried out by INIA five years ago indicate that only 8% of
livestock farmers have adopted improved technology. This represents approximately 1,500
farmers and 2.5 million ha of land. The area available for development is approximately 14
million ha, the majority situated in the extensive, poor grasslands of the center, east and north.,
where the acid, sandy and shallow basaltic soils prevail.
20.   The last five years have seen a serious contraction of the extension services. After its
recent "privatization" (a modification of its legal structure, but with finance secured in the short
term by the Ministry of Agriculture), the Instituto Plan Agropecuario has reduced the number of
its technicians by 70%; a number of offices in the field have been closed and its role as an
extension institution seriously curtailed. Its activity is now concentrated mainly on training
farmers and medium-level managers, and passing some technical messages through meetings and
publications. Its future budget and mere existence remains highly questionable. The producers'
organizations (the Asociaci6n Rural and the Federaci6n Rural, the Cooperativas Agrarias



- 46 -
Federadas and the Comisi6n Nacional de Fomento Rural) are now directly responsible for its
future; they have expressed concern but do not appear to have any strategy for its survival.
21.   FUCREA has seen its members reduced by half and is facing a financial situation similar to
that of the PLAN. The same applies to SUL, whose budget depends from a tax on wool exports.
As the price of wool has been considerably reduced in the last four years, its activities are
seriously affected. CONAPROLE has practically dismantled its extension department. IMA,
supported by the local budget and several loans and contributions from multilateral and bilateral
institutions, has strengthened its position, but its activity is mainly concentrated on research and
validation.
23.   After forty years of trial and error, considerable efforts by institutions and farmers, and in
some cases, good fortune, the livestock sub-sector has found some valid solutions for its
development problems. There are now solid, reliable answers for the intensification of beef, dairy
and sheep production. New pasture species adapted to the local conditions have emerged. Better
systems of herd management are being adopted, and fat lamb production, almost unknown four
years ago, is now becoming commercially viable. INIA is being further strengthened and
produces good technical material. Credit is now widely available, on reasonable terms and
conditions. International prices for beef are favorable and there are good reasons to believe that
the present drop of milk prices will be only temporary. Prices for calves are, for the first time in
history, higher than for fat steers. It is paradoxical to witness the reduction or dismantling of
extension services when the economic and technical environment is ready to receive an input of
practical, reliable technology.
24.   The country is now at a cross-roads. The Government, in effect, decided to give
responsibility to the producers' organizations for the management of livestock extension, the
weakest link in the production chain. After two years of experience, the system is facing
organizational problems and an unclear financial future that are jeopardizing the transfer of
technology. The urgent need has already been felt in the production sector to review the present
system and its financial basis in order not to miss the opportunities that are today offered to the
livestock industry, known in the past for its traditional, conservative approach to development.



IBRD 21503
UR U G UAY
B R A Z I L                          AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
/                   6 k     rtigas                                                 PROJECT  11
ARGENTINA                                                                    LI    Areas of Forest priority
j\  ' k CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(~) MO,, roodS
AR GE NT I NA        -                                                                              Secon,dary roads
-e t:    ^(   -   2  j !Rivero  ,  Ra Iroods
Bridges
tAirports
'orts
Deportment boor,dories
X   -                i | | r        '\/\                   ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International boundaries
iti T acuaa   |   |   t   s   tP   \K  - Mles    2  40  IC 40   160)
-32'         s       t     _              Piedr Sola                                         4 l                                  2
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR A       
lores~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
C.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Castillos  BCR A Z Ia
a a  ~  ~      ~       ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       BOLIVIARohap 
~~OCha  ~~~CHILElr\\% iG
URUGUAY   &
APRIL 1989



