               Document of
            The World Bank




                                       Report No: 28397-MOR

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
    (CPL-40240 SCL-4024A SCPM-4024S)

                  ON A

          LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$54 MILLION

                 TO THE

        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                 FOR A

      SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
(BARNAMAJ AL AOULAOUIYAT AL IJTIMAIYA)

       BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




               June 25, 2004

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective : February 2004)

                                     Currency Unit = Moroccan dirham (DH)
                                           DH 1.00 = US$ 0.109
                                          US$ 1.00 = DH 9.20

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 -    December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAJ  Barnamaj Al Aoulaouaiyat Al Ijtimaiya (Social Priorities Program)
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
CPR  Regional Education Center (Centre pédagogique régional)
CSSS Committee for Monitoring the Social Strategy (Comité de suivi de la stratégie sociale)
DAAG Office of Administrative and General Affairs (Direction des affaires administratives et générales
    )
DAP  Office for Educational Action (Direction de l'action pédagogique)
DCLA Office for the Fight against Illiteracy (Direction de la lutte contre l'analphabétisme)
DSPP Office of Statistics, Forecasting and Programming (Direction de la statistique, de la prospective
    et de la programmation)
EU   European Union
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB  International Competitive Bidding (Appel d'offre international)
ICR  Implementation Completion Report
MEAS Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs (Ministère de l'emploi et des affaires sociales)
MNE  Ministry of National Education
NCB  National Competitive Bidding (Appel d'offre national)
PCS  School Meals Program (Programme des cantines scolaires)
PEP  Public Expenditure Program
PMU  Program Management Unit
PN   National Agency for the Promotion of Employment (Promotion nationale (Agence nationale pour
    la promotion de l'emploi))
SAP  Sector Action Plan
SAR  Staff Appraisal Report
SPP Social Priorities Program
SDS  Social Development Strategy
SGA  Autonomous Management Agency (Service de gestion autonome)
VAT  Value Added Tax
WFP  World Food Program (Programme alimentaire mondial)
ZIP Priority Intervention Areas (Zones d'intervention prioritaire)

                                   Vice President:      Christiaan Poortman
                                Country Director        Theodore Ahlers
                                  Sector Manager        Michal Rutkowski
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Michel Welmond

                                          MOROCCO
                              BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
                                 (Social Priorities Program)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8: Borrower's Report

Project ID: P005501                                                  Project Name: Social Priorities Programme (Education)
Team Leader: Michel J. Welmond                                       TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Priorities Programme (Education)                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-40240; SCL-4024A;
                                                                                                     SCPM-4024S
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (60%); Other social services (22%); Tertiary
                            education (10%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (5%); Central
                            government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Gender
                            (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/10/1993                                     Effective: 12/24/1996                12/24/1996
     Appraisal: 06/12/1995                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  04/12/1999
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO/MINISTÈRE DE L'ÉDUCATION
                                           NATIONALE ET DE LA JEUNESSE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Michal J. Rutkowski                            Roslyn Hees
Team Leader at ICR:             Michel Welmond                                 Benoît Millot
ICR Primary Author:             Kangbai Konaté


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The macroeconomic adjustment instituted in the 1980s by the Government brought relatively good
economic results; however performance in the social sectors remained of concern. The Government was
committed to focusing on social issues in a concerted manner and, in 1993, issued a social development
strategy, Stratégie de Développement Social pour la Décennie 1990 (SDS). The SDS established the
framework for social policy covering the following main aspects: (i) extending basic social services to the
poor, (ii) increasing their participation in economically productive activities, (iii) efficiently allocating
scarce resources, and (iv) monitoring and evaluation of social actions.

To assist the Government in the implementation of the SDS, the Social Priorities Program (SPP) or in
Arabic, Barnamaj al-Aoulaouiyat al-Ijtimaiya (BAJ) was initiated, targeting the thirteen most
disadvantaged and least urbanized provinces in Morocco1/. Originally conceived as a single project, Bank
management decided to split the project into three complementary projects to be implemented
simultaneously yet independently in the same poor rural areas: (1) BAJ Basic Health, (2) BAJ Coordination
and Monitoring of Social Programs and Labor Promotion, and (3) BAJ Basic Education, the subject of this
report.

The BAJ Basic Education objectives were to: (a) target the poorest population group in the country; (b)
have an impact both on the supply and demand for education; (c) affect both upstream institutions (Koranic
pre-school establishments) and downstream institutions (adult literacy programs) of the formal educational
system.

The objectives are relevant and respond directly to the main areas of focus of the Government's SDS. As
stipulated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the goal of the objectives was to contribute to the
development of human capital by making education and literacy accessible to the most disadvantaged
population groups. With investing in people as its first priority, the Bank's overall mission of poverty
alleviation and its Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) underscored to a greater extent the Government's
SDS policies.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions. The thirteen provinces targeted by the BAJ increased to fourteen due to an
administrative redistricting, but this in no way affected the "geographic" coverage.

3.3 Original Components:
The project contained the following components:

Component A - Improving Access to and Retention in               Basic Education (US$52.8 million). This
component would expand the supply of basic education by improving school accessibility and coverage. To
improve accessibility, the MNE would establish schools in every rural community that had more than 200
inhabitants and was not already served by a school "reasonably close by." Because of the variety of the
climate, terrain, and populations that characterize the thirteen selected provinces, the decision about which
schools were "reasonably close" would be entrusted to the provincial planning units. To the extent possible,
the MNE would make the newly built schools multigrade so that schools to rural communities would offer
the full basic education course.

Component B - Reducing the Gender Gap (US$17.4 million). By addressing the various demand factors
presently affecting girls' enrollments, this component would reinforce the effects of the first one. All



                                                      - 2 -

elements contributing to increased access and lower dropout rates would also promote greater female
participation and would therefore help to reduce the education gap between boys and girls. This component,
however, would specifically target girls by reducing the cost of education to families, upgrading schools,
ensuring that whenever possible newly built schools had access to drinkable water and latrines, and
fostering community development in operating schools. Two important elements of this component
included, on the one hand, the distribution of textbooks and school supplies for disadvantaged children,
particularly girls and, on the other hand, the renovation of school facilities to make it possible to increase
girls' attendance.

Component C - Improving Education Quality (US$21.6 million). This component would provide a
standard set of instructional materials to each school, test and organize remedial courses for
underachievers, set up an "innovation fund" to promote school-based projects, and provide housing for
teachers in remote areas (which would complement efforts to devise an improved methodology for
multigrade teaching). This component also included: (i) the building of some 180 housing units intended for
teachers assigned to remote areas, and (ii) the training of school principals.

Component D - Improving Effectiveness of Literacy Programs (US$3.7 million). This component would
be based on the observation that parents with higher levels of literacy are more willing to send their children
to school. Mothers' level of literacy, in fact, is one of the aspects most strongly associated with girls'
access to primary education. In order to put into practice the lessons learned from earlier literacy
campaigns, the MEAS (Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs) designed a pilot program to test a new
type of literacy campaign, which would strengthen people's motivation to become literate by seeking a field
of application for the newly acquired knowledge from the outset.

Component E - Capacity Building          (US$1.6 million). This component would provide the technical
assistance, training, and equipment necessary for the MNE to implement, monitor, and adjust its SAP
(Sector Action Plan). Under this plan, the Government would shift budgetary resources to basic education
to promote wider coverage and better quality, particularly in rural areas, and would preserve a core
program of expenditures for basic education. The plan would also address the problem of inefficiencies in
resource allocation and use, especially with regard to secondary staff appointments. The major elements of
this component were as follow: (a) preparing a Public Expenditure Program (PEP) for the primary and
secondary education sectors, and training the staff of the Office of Statistics, Forecasting, and Planning
(DSPP) and of the Ministry of Education in techniques for developing this type of program; (b) carrying
out a series of assessments of existing personnel management procedures and providing computerized tools
for follow-up and assessment to provincial planning offices (local branches) and; (c) reshaping the methods
for establishing lists of schools and regional requirements. To put into place the objectives cited in points
(a) and (b), two studies were to be conducted, one on the PEP and the other on Human Resources, the
Ministry of Education.

Component F - Project Management (US$0.7 million). This last component would support project
management and monitoring activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
Shortly after project start, Bank staff assessed progress to be too slow and management of financial
monitoring and accounting too weak; therefore, the Bank mission of December 1998, in accord with the
MNE, established the following revisions (as amended in the loan agreement of September 1999):

(i) Restructure certain components and simplify execution: (a) allocate funds and delegate responsibilities
    to the provinces to carry out actions aimed at improving the quality of education (training initiatives,


                                                      - 3 -

     facility renovations, procurement of books and textbooks for school libraries); (b) eliminate certain
     activities that proved difficult to implement, such as the renovation of Koranic schools or the funding
     of mobile libraries; and (c) improve project execution by creating a project management unit (PMU)
     with necessary authority to initiate action, monitor execution, and maintain up-to-date accounting
     records.

(ii) Fund new activities including: (a) a distance learning program for teacher training using interactive
     television; (b) financial support for informal schools created by civil society; and (c) promotion of adult
     literacy programs through agreements with NGOs.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The design quality of the project is satisfactory; some elements attenuated though did not effect the rating.
The objectives were in line with the CAS as well as the priorities of the Government and the MNE.

·   Project design. Design quality is undeniable. Project preparation facilitated collaboration between the
Government, the MNE, and the Bank to gain stakeholder consensus on the SDS. BAJ Education accurately
gauged the state of education in the rural areas (low school attendance rates, particularly for girls, lack of
classrooms, etc.) and provided creative and effective solutions. In 1998, the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) rated project design as appropriate.

The Bank staff was flexible and pragmatic. When project indicators were too cumbersome for
management, it reassessed them with the MNE. As a result, the Bank and the MNE agreed to three
indicators: enrollment rate, girls' participation rate, and availability of textbooks and other school supplies.
Consequently, the project was able to retain BAJ concepts. While the first two indicators appeared to be
relevant in view of project objectives, the third appeared less so. A possible third benchmark -- girls'
retention rates -- could have been a more primary Government concern.

·   Project preparedness for implementation. The project framework planned for activities to be carried
out at three different levels: (i) the central level, by the relevant ministerial departments; (ii) the provincial
level, by the designated representatives of the central ministries; and (iii) the local level, by the communities
themselves. A Social Strategy Monitoring Committee (CSSS) seamlessly combined representatives from
the respective ministries and was operational during project preparation. Throughout the project, the CSSS
was assisted by the Sécretariat responsible for monitoring the impact of the three complementary BAJ
projects.

The complementary nature of project objectives and framework made BAJ Education integral to the
process even following the development of the reform of the educational system as described in the
National Charter for education and training 2/. The main goals were: (i) provide an education to all
children aged six years by 2002; (ii) improve the quality of education; and (iii) encourage greater
involvement by parents and communities in the school setting.

The BAJ Staff Appraisal Report stipulated, "due to several factors, including lack of professional
implementation staff, cumbersome administrative procedures, and lack of expertise in project management,
Bank projects in Morocco have moved slowly. But the MNE has reorganized its project implementation
division and changed several key staff -- changes that have already improved the implementation of ongoing
projects and should meet implementation needs of the central ministry."




                                                        - 4 -

Soon after project launch, the MNE underwent another reorganization. Beyond the Bank's control, the
Bank staff quickly developed and implemented a strategy to offset the loss of institutional memory and
project management capability. The strategy yielded positive results: (i) creation of a project management
unit (PMU) (see sections 4.5 and 5.3); (ii) stepped up decentralization of project implementation; (iii)
technical assistance to build MNE institutional capacity; (iv) intensification of supervision missions; and
(v) establishment of action plans with each supervision mission. The initial phases of project execution also
brought to light management difficulties with regards to financial monitoring and accounting, which led to
the creation of the project management unit (PMU).

·    Important characteristics of project design. One of the remarkable aspects in the design of the
Education BAJ was the decentralization of certain activities. The SAR (pp. 20-21) called for
decentralization of two activities: (i) provincial representatives of the central ministry were delegated the
responsibilities of purchasing school furniture and of supervising and assisting the local communities in
constructing primary schools; (ii) local communities were to carry out construction of schools, latrines,
wells, etc. In practice, the local communities were not able to ensure the construction of primary schools, so
the activity was transferred in 1997 to the provincial governors, with funds earmarked to ensure completion
3/. "

·    Participation and dialogue during preparation. The preparation for the project was participatory and
took into account the contributions of beneficiaries and users, including the results of the Bank's
participatory study on rural women. This study showed that increasing girls' attendance at primary school
is dependent on lightening the burden of time-consuming domestic tasks, e.g., gathering wood and fetching
water (World Bank, 1995). Project design was also influenced by the results of a MNE survey of 1,600
rural households that identified obstacles to school attendance (MNE 1993). Consequently, the project
directly tackled identified demand factors.

·    Project risk evaluation. (1) Difficulty of implementing structural changes in the education sector and
administration: to be mitigated vis-à-vis a thorough discussion of the Sectoral Action Plan with and the
mobilization of political will at the highest levels of Government. Although the dialogue between the Bank
and Government authorities was strenuous at times, in general, it led to consensus. (2) Potential lack of
response and enrollment in basic education by the rural poor, especially girls: to be offset by viewing
school attendance in terms of demand, taking into account the results of studies on demand factors and
participatory evaluations. The demand-based approach made it possible to target specific barriers to
education in rural settings. (3) Potential delays in project execution, particularly for decentralized activities:
to be countered by having the Government adopt the study's recommended measures for the flow of funds
and implementing a program management system prior to project launch. The Government adopted the
recommendations of the study. (4) Limited execution capabilities of the ministry responsible for the literacy
component, MEAS: to be addressed through assistance from the more-experienced MNE and pilot activity.
The Office for the Campaign against Illiteracy (DLCA) attached to the Ministry of Employment was put in
charge of the literacy program.

_______________________________________________
1/ The criteria for selecting the provinces for the three projects were the following: (1) standard of living indicators
(annual expenditures per inhabitant and urbanization rate); (2) indicators related to the education sector (literacy
rate and admission rate to first grade); and (3) indicators related to the health sector (mortality rates for children
under the age of five years, number of inhabitants per physician, per medical assistant and per health center).

2/ In March 1999, His Majesty King Hassan II set up a special Commission for Education and Training charged
with drafting a National Charter to define the framework for a reform of the educational system. It made education



                                                          - 5 -

and training a national priority and established 2000-2009 as the decade of education and training.

3/ A memorandum (April 28-May 13, 1997) stated, "The project loan has been reduced... The authorities have
informed the mission that the reduction of the loan was due to the fact that during the course of the budgetary fiscal
year, the cost of building of primary schools, previously covered by the local communities, was assumed by the
State general budget.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The main indicators were: enrollment rates, girls' participation rates, and availability of textbooks and
other school supplies; their relevance is discussed in section 4.5.

4.1 Outcome/Achievement of objective:
Overall, measurable objectives are rated satisfactory. Key indicators show that most were attained and
exceeded in the BAJ provinces. Gross enrollment rates increased from 58 percent in 1995/6 to 92 percent in
2000/01, while the stated project aim was 86.1 percent. Between 1995/6 and 2000/01 the girls' gross
enrollment rate increased from 38 percent to 82.5 percent, the target being 72.8 percent. The project
strategy emphasized priority geographic areas and disadvantaged groups as well as building classrooms,
purchasing equipment, and training teachers: it undoubtedly led to the increased demand for girls'
education and overall basic education.

Targets were not met with regards to girls' retention rates. In hindsight, the MNE overestimated the target
at 65 percent. Nevertheless, girls' retention rates increased 6 points between 1994/5 and 2000/01, from 36
percent to 42 percent. The BAJ Education project emphasized access and retention at the basic education
level in rural areas, especially for girls. To meet this goal, the project expected a certain synergy with the
other two BAJ programs. The development of rural infrastructure was expected to contribute to the girls'
retention rates, and the BAJ Coordination and Monitoring Program financed a number of infrastructure
projects (e.g., building roads and dormitories in rural areas). BAJ Education and BAJ Basic Health were
positively affected, with the former having increased girls' participation rates as a direct result of
BAJ-constructed dormitories 4/. Also, Bank management's projection for the SPP/BAJ was sought and
achieved.

The initial emphasis on the physical components (i.e., building schools) was gradually overshadowed by a
focus on the quality and effectiveness of education. The distribution of textbooks, schools supplies, and
other educational materials, as well as facilitating a cycle of ongoing teacher training were all central to the
project's success. Over one million pupils in the targeted districts benefited from the distribution of
textbooks and school supplies. Given the success of this operation, other MNE partners -- certain NGOs
and a few donors -- distributed school supplies or kits alongside the Bank.

Certain institutional innovations were also generated by the project. Despite objections from the central
level, the provinces assumed a number of activities that were not previously planned in the decentralization
process. Lump-sum disbursements were used to renovate classrooms on a "proof of services" basis; this
accelerated the disbursement process and the completion of planned activities 5/. Project innovations
gained efficiency by delegating responsibilities to the local level and streamlining disbursement procedures,
which in turn hastened achievement of the respective objectives.

Three studies were planned in the SPP/BAJ project. Section 3.3 discusses the first two studies (the public
expenditure program and the management of human resources). The third study was initiated and sought


                                                       - 6 -

new methods for community involvement in the administration of school canteen programs and in their
adaptation to the local characteristics. The final phase was slated for completion in June 2002 but a MNE
reorganization prevented it. The study was transferred from its original office (the DAAG) to a new office
(SGA) and never came to fruition.

As for the coordination of the BAJ program, although desirable it was inhibited by a number of factors,
including: "(i) the general difficulty associated with coordination of mulit-sectoral programs, (ii) weal intra-
and inter-sectoral in the execution of the actions programmed under each SPP/BAJ project, (iii) a lack of
coordination between the departments of the different ministries, and (iv) reduced influence of the
Secrétariat and the representatives of the SPP/BAJ in the provinces. At the provincial level, program
coordination was more efficient, benefiting from the effective intervention of governors, who are in a
strategic position to coordinate, monitor and strengthen the integration of projects and programs in their
province 6/."

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Increase access and rates of retention on the level of basic education
The performance of this component is considered to have been satisfactory.
1. Access to education increased considerably, exceeding the target value. Between 1996/7 and 2002/03,
    the BAJ provinces experienced a 48 percent increase in the number of children in school as compared
    to 28 percent nationwide.
2. Though falling short of the target, girls' retention rates did increase by 6 points. This is a substantial
    achievement considering the delayed start of the project.
3. The activities relating to the building of classrooms attained and even exceeded the expected results
    (1,370 buildings planned and 2,449 actually built by the project). Starting in 1999, the MNE and Bank
    agreed to halt construction in order to allow the qualitative components to advance; the construction
    program had been completed in its totality, reaching the ceiling of the disbursement category, i.e.
    US$17 million.

4.2.2. Reduce the gap in school attendance between boys and girls
The performance of this component was highly satisfactory inasmuch as the indicators relating to planned
activities made very favorable progress.
1. The attendance rates increased more quickly for girls, reducing the gender gap. The attendance rates
    increased from 35 percent for girls and 78 percent for boys in 1994/5 to 82.5 percent and 100 percent
    respectively in 2000/01. The target values (2000/01) for both sexes were exceeded, 72.8 percent for
    girls and 98.8 percent for boys.
2. Starting in 1997/8, textbooks and school supplies management was carried out at the provincial level,
    resulting in a more effective distribution, with        priority given to the most disadvantaged children,
    particularly girls. According to reports received for the purposes of this report both from the             PMU
    and the MNE provincial branch offices, girls' attendance rates were impacted positively by this
    distribution, although an absence of            quantitative data does not allow verification.
3.
4.2.3. Improve the quality of education
The performance of this component was satisfactory: the training of teachers and school principals as well
as the building of housing for teachers was met with unequivocal success. The results of the interactive
teacher-training activity does not compromise the rating, as it started very late into the SPP/BAJ and its
future impact cannot be discerned.
1. With respect to the in-service training of teachers and school principals, budgeting and decision-making
    were decentralized to the provinces, with               encouraging results. In the 14 BAJ provinces,
    approximately 82 percent of the teachers and 94 percent of the principals benefited from these



                                                      - 7 -

    activities.
2. The project provided ongoing training for 5,000 teachers, while 30,216 teachers and 3,527 school
    principals also received training.
3. The project goal of building 180 housing units for teachers was exceeded between 1997/8 and 2000/1,
    894 housing units were built.
4. The teacher distance education centers (interactive television project) were renovated and equipped (see
    section 3.4.II). Training seminars were         organized for the teaching staff and seven training
    modules were created. Several meetings between the MNE and UNESCO (contracted for this activity)
    ­ were organized to review the activity's implementation timetable and the action plan. At project
    close, the training activities had not yet      started.

4.2.4. Literacy program
The performance of this component was satisfactory. The literacy program that is run by the Office for the
Campaign against Illiteracy (DLCA) and attached to the Ministry of Employment has expanded. Since the
program's start in 1998, 80 agreements have been signed with 70 NGOs, amounting to DH34.2 million
(see section 3.4.II). There is substantial demand for the program and the DLCA is working to improve its
quality.

4.2.5. Strengthening institutional capacities
The performance of this component was moderate. The study on human resources was completed, and the
results and recommendations have been disseminated to the four MNE departments involved in human
resources management for basic and secondary education. Regarding the study on the public expenditure
programs, the first three phases have been completed and serve as the basis for preparing for the internal
reform of the Direction for Budget and Management Monitoring (DBCG). These results provided the basic
documentation for the "programming and executing expenditures" working group set up for the Public
Expenditure Review. The MNE preferred to wait for the operationalization of the regional education and
training academies (AREF), which were only established in January 2002, before implementing the last two
phases of the study. At project close, these last two phases had not been completed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In preparing the SPP/BAJ project, the economic analysis mainly focused on a discussion of the cost
effectiveness of certain scenarios, i.e., the results of projections developed for Education as summarized
below (see also annex 3):

Project preparation was influenced by the forecasts presented in the Education SAR. In particular,
alternative scenarios to attain universal primary education, as well as the budgetary implications of these
scenarios, were used. According to the analysis in the SAR, the MNE had a strategy of establishing
"satellite schools" that offered basic primary education in villages having a limited number of children. The
Bank suggested a substitute strategy that would involve establishing small schools that were more complete
(with two classrooms) organized according to a system of multiple-grade teaching. In addition to bringing
the schools closer to the communities, this option had the particular potential of bringing in more girls into
basic education. The SAR forecast that, with the establishment of multi-grade classes, the project would
generate a savings estimated at US$6.5 million per year by project end. As part of the education BAJ
project, the construction of 6,358 multi-level classrooms was planned. The project made possible the
construction of 10,222 such classrooms.

Cost effectiveness of multi-level classes. The two options were: using hub schools and satellite schools or
the use of multi-level education.




                                                      - 8 -

Cost comparison between the two options. At the time of the writing of the SAR, the unit cost of the
system of hub schools and satellite schools was DH2,862, with a teacher-student ratio of 1:15. The aim
was to attain a teacher-student ratio of 1:20. With this option the unit cost would be reduced to DH2,136,
which represents a savings of 25 percent.

The cost effectiveness of each option. The cost-effectiveness ratio of each option is measured by its impact
on attendance and academic performance. The statistical evidence from the period indicates that this type of
education enhances access to school and according to the SAR, could contribute to increasing boys'
attendance by 6 percent and girls' attendance by 76 percent.

International experience indicates that this model is more cost effective than the traditional model of
separate classes customary in the satellite schools in Morocco. An outside appraisal report was drawn up
in May 1997, under a project to support the development of the first stage of basic education funded by the
World Bank (Loan No. 3026 MOR) and executed by UNESCO (Project 700/MOR/13). The conclusions of
that report show that the "performance of the pupils is better in the complete schools than in the incomplete
schools, but that the recourse to multiple classes to broaden the variety of courses offered in settings where
there is limited staff is not very effective. This result differs from what has been frequently observed in
other countries 7/."

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's contribution to institutional development was moderate. The BAJ education project initiated a
decentralization movement from the center to the provinces, but without truly strengthening institutional
capacities at the central level of the MNE. Faced with implementation difficulties during the project's first
years, a project management unit (PMU) was created. This unit was supposed to be involved in project
management, but its prerogatives were limited (see sections 5.3 and 7.6). The creation of this type of entity
tends to underscore the lack of institutional capacity at the ministry level, which was circumvented for the
execution of certain activities. In contrast, with respect to the decentralization of the execution of most
project activities, the provinces took charge of the building of primary schools (under the responsibility of
the provincial governors), the design of training modules, the training of teachers and school principals, and
the distribution of textbooks and school supplies, in addition to other activities. Provincial office capacity
already existed before the project was launched, but the innovative feature of the SPP/BAJ was that it
succeeded in taking advantage of this know-how. Indeed, certain local participants were able to use skills
acquired from earlier technical assistance programs (UNICEF, Coopération française, etc.). Finally, the
DCLA called on numerous NGOs to offer training sessions under the literacy component. One remarkable
aspect of the project was that it managed to identify specialized NGOs and to use their know-how in the
area of literacy programs while offering them training sessions for trainers.
_________________________________________________
4/ World Bank. 2004. Kingdom of Morocco: A Basic Education Project in the Framework of the Social Priorities
Program (Barnamaj Al Aoulaouiyat Al Ijtimaiya), Report No. 28397-MOR, Implementation Completion Report, p.
9. Washington, DC.

5/ The documents relating to the procurement contracts subject to this type of disbursement provided for the
establishment of a certificate on the part of the Borrower, confirming that the specific activity had been carried out
in compliance with the standards and criteria agreed upon in advance with the Bank.

6/ Ibid, p. 11.



                                                        - 9 -

    7/ Depover, Christian (Université de Mons, Hainaut, Belgique) and François Orivel (IREDU, Université de
    Bourgogne, France). « Royaume de Maroc, Ministère de l'Education Nationale, Rapport d'Evaluation Externe, du
    Projet d'Appui au développement du premier cycle de l'enseignement fondamental. »


    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

    5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    N.A.

    5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Over the lifetime of the BAJ project, numerous political appointments at the central level led to a high rate
    of turnover among top decision-makers; at the same time, the MNE was restructured to successfully carry
    out the process of decentralization and in general, the reform of the educational system. Thus, the
    Education BAJ project suffered some loss of institutional memory, affecting its proper functioning. In
    addition, the splintering of decision-making centers within the MNE tended to complicate the flow of
    information and communications. This de facto situation created problems in management and in
    cross-checking information. Allocation transfers to the provinces evinced an inordinate number of
    administrative procedures that were cumbersome and caused delays. Among the consequences, for
    example, it was at times impossible to complete the nine-day teacher training course in one fiscal year
    (thereby requiring a few training days to be carried over to the next fiscal year).

    5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    The PMU was one of the most stable entities of project implementation. Its function of monitoring and
    coordination hastened implementation. The staff was comprised of a project director and an accountant; an
    economist/planner was hired but stayed only four months. Because it was understaffed, the Unit was unable
    to assume certain responsibilities. For example, the PMU was unable to use or centralize accounting and
    financial information that it gathered and, therefore, was unable to entirely offset the loss of institutional
    memory. Overall, the procedures implemented by the Government were complex, so a study was carried
    out on the flow of funds (see section 3.5) and the system of "proof of services" was set up as a
    disbursement mechanism.

    5.4 Costs and financing:

                                  Allocations based on the    Allocations revised            Actual amounts
           Categories            amendment of September       in December 2002       (on the basis of the 2002 allocations)
                                            1999
                                                                                       DisbursedNon- disbursed
                                            Total                    Total                        TotalTotal
(1) Civil Works                                16.994.086.23          16.994.086.23
(a) Construction activities                       644.729.64             644.729.64                              16.994.086.23

(b) Non-disbursed activities                     3.360.000.00          3.500.000.00                                 297.133.17
                                                                                                                  3.529.075.01
    (c)   Renovation activities                                                                                            0.00
                                                                                                                    347.596.47
                                                                                                                     -29.075.01
(2) Equipment                                  16.011.770.50          13.676.921.62                  13.500.872.48176.049.14
(3) :                                                                                                             3.338.063.13
(a) seminars                                     6.000.000.00          3.600.000.00                            0.00261.936.87

      (b) other training                         1.000.000.00                  0.00                                        0.00

(4) Consultant's services                        3.300.000.00          3.384.262.51                    3.250.891.18133.371.33
    (5) Not affected                              3.989.413.63                  0.00                                   0.000.00
                                                  2.700.000.00         4.200.000.00                    3.485.951.04714.048.96



                                                           - 10 -

   (6) Conventions
   CS conversion                                          0.00                     0.00                               0.000.00
   Special accounts                                       0.00                    0.00                   142.825.67-142.825.67
Total                                           54.000.000.00            46.000.000.00               44.538.897.911.461.102.09
   Sources: memorandum, December 2003; partial cancellation of the loan (December 2002) and; the office of disbursements of
   the Bank



   Total project cost was US$97.7 million, including US$54 million funded by the Bank, US$28.3 million the
   GoM, and US$1.5 million by France. When the BAJ project was prepared, unit costs were overestimated
   and in 2001 the Moroccan dirham depreciated with respect to the US dollar by 30 percent 8/. Thus the loan
   had a balance of US$17.2 million (DH215,000,000.00) to be scheduled over fiscal years 2002 and 2003.
   Total project expenditures were US$8 million under the total amount of the loan. This sum was cancelled
   at the request of the Moroccan Government on December 18, 2002, reducing the revised loan amount to
   US$46 million. After project close, approximately US$1.4 million remained, which was also cancelled.
   Cancellations amount to over US$9 million (initially US$54 million).

   The cancellation of US$8 million brought about a reallocation of loan funds in 2002:

   Equipment (from US$16 million to US$13.7 million). This decrease was mainly due to delays in
   organizing and establishing the technical specifications for the major educational equipment and the
   evaluation process for the bids at the central level. The procurement of textbooks and small-sized school
   supplies, entrusted to the provinces, progressed satisfactorily.

   Training (from US$7 million to US$3.6 million). This decrease was essentially the effect of two factors:
   (i) certain activities (study trips, short training sessions in foreign countries, education seminars), though
   planned under the project, were not implemented by the MNE and (ii) the teacher training that also was to
   have been organized at the central level fell to the provincial level over the course of the first few years.
   This made it possible to obtain satisfactory results.

   Agreements related to the adult literacy component (from US$2.7 million to US$4.2 million). The
   increase in the funding for this component was the result of its satisfactory implementation by the DLCA.
   The literacy program succeeded in reaching ever-increasing numbers of adults. In a country where illiteracy
   is high, the increase in funding allowed more adults to benefit from the program. This was perfectly in
   keeping with the project objectives and with the National Charter for Education and Training.

   ____________________________________________________
   8/ In June 1995, US$1 was worth DH8.3; in May 2001, US$1 was worth DH11.5.

   6. Sustainability

   6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
   Sustainability is considered to have been modest.

   On the political level, the National Charter for Education and Training was supported at the highest levels
   of political power, in particular by King Mohammed VI, and reinforced the political commitment of
   Morocco to place education and training at the center of development efforts. In this context, future Bank
   support to the Moroccan education reform should take into account the lessons learned from the Education
   BAJ project (decentralization/devolution, paying particular attention to geographic and gender inequalities,
   etc.).



                                                           - 11 -

On the level of technical and institutional capacity, the results are rather mixed. Although a certain number
of decentralized entities of the MNE and of NGOs had the opportunity to improve or to develop their
technical capacities through the decentralization initiated by the BAJ project, few structures were put in
place to ensure the sustainability of the education BAJ project. For example, no system was put into place
to assess the skills acquired by teachers or pupils from training sessions. This hindered any analysis or the
development of effective information system about the educational system. However, the fact that the MNE
used the results of two studies ­ public expenditures and human resources ­ mentioned in section 4.2 is
encouraging. From the standpoint of technical and institutional capacities, most of the lessons learned from
the education BAJ will be reinforced as soon as they become an integral part of MNE functioning.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Certain activities developed in the project's framework are integral parts of the efforts of the MNE and are
written into the reform of the educational system. This includes, for example, the decentralization of the
educational system or improved access to primary school. The Bank's new project currently being
developed, the PARSEM, seeks to rectify most of the weak links in the BAJ including: (1) strengthening
educational quality or even, (2) strengthening the technical and institutional capacities of the MNE. The
improvement in education quality sought by the PARSEM is based on several principles and strategies,
particularly: (i) learner-centered teaching approaches; (ii) effective funding of educational institutions; and
(iii) dialog and partnership between the school and its community. As for institutional and technical
capacities are to be strengthened on a parallel track to the establishment of an effective system of
administrative and financial management, centered on results.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
With respect to project preparation, Bank performance is considered satisfactory. The serious problems
encountered in the Moroccan social sectors led to an urgent need for intensive and sustainable action, such
as that offered by the SPP/BAJ projects. The Bank's support for such action meets the expectations of the
CAS, which places investment in human resources at the center of development concerns. The Bank
collaborated well with the Government during the identification phase and based its decisions on thorough
analyses and documentation. The National Charter for Education and Training, which was developed by
the Moroccan Government and was partly integrated into the SPP/BAJ, is completely in line with the
Bank's strategy for fighting poverty.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance is considered satisfactory: the Bank's interventions were consistent overall. The
BAJ Education Project experienced numerous difficulties during the first two years of implementation. An
Early Implementation Review was organized forthrightly in order to find specific solutions to the problems
that inhibited proper functioning, and by the end of the second year, the project had entered into a more
satisfactory phase. The project manager at the time and his team successfully guided the project "back on
track."

In order to address the issue of staff turnover, the Bank strategy consisted of: (a) creating a PMU, with the
staff being attached to the civil service; (b) encouraging greater decentralization of project implementation
(several activities were undertaken at the provincial level); (c) strengthening the capacities of the ministry,
particularly through organizing workshops and seminars with senior Bank officials, thus restoring a climate
of trust; (d) increasing the number of missions by using available Trust Funds to supplement the Bank's
budget; and (3) reaching consensus with the Borrower on the action plans devised with each mission. The



                                                     - 12 -

Bank staff's proactive approach made the project much more productive, and the project manager and his
team received a prize for excellence from QAG in recognition of its supervisory work on the BAJ
Education Project.

Starting in 1999, costs curtailed the pace of the supervision missions, thus they became less frequent. From
1999 to project close in 2003, the SPP/BAJ had four different task team leaders, and only one team
member worked from project start to project close. Nevertheless, the different project leaders adopted
similar approaches, in particular they retained the actions plans devised with each mission to ensure
consistent supervision.

The Rabat mission did not play a central role in project implementation: the Bank's country office in Rabat
opened only in 1999 and did not have an education specialist on staff.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is considered to have been satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is considered satisfactory. Excellent collaboration
occurred between the MNE and the Bank during project preparation. In 1993, Morocco published the
Social Development Strategy for the 1990's, which aimed to establish a sound social policy. The
Government forwarded to the Bank the initial version of the SDS in the context of the Second Adjustment
Program. In the spirit of the SDS, the MNE established a Sector Action Plan that called for an integrated
set of interventions for target areas and population groups. This plan took into account the conclusion of
several recent studies, the Bank's overall view of the education sector, and a Bank report on the future of
the education sector previously delivered to the King of Morocco.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance in project implementation was satisfactory. At the central level: as mentioned
in sections 3.4 and 7.2, after project preparation and appraisal, BAJ Education experienced a prolonged
start-up period, the concept of ownership requiring time for those involved to accept. In addition, the need
to strengthen the institutional capacities on the ministerial level a constant issue throughout the life of
SPP/BAJ. Finally, at the central level of the MNE, financial documents were not centralized on account of
a dispersion of responsibilities. For the same reasons, the monitoring of the financial transactions was not
systematic. At the provincial level: project implementation generally went well. The governors (in charge of
the building of the schools), the delegates and their teams were able to successfully carry out most of the
activities for which they were responsible.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The PMU played an important role in
project implementation, such as ensuring that Bank procedures for financial management and procurement
contracting were followed. However, the PMU was not able to completely fulfill its role of compiling and
transmitting project information because it had neither the means nor the technical capacities to do so.
From inception, the PMU was understaffed and probably never assumed the role that it should and could
have. Furthermore, its structure and prerogatives should have allowed it to take on a stronger project
management role, while its stature should have been better-recognized by the MNE and other Government
agencies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is considered to have been satisfactory.


                                                    - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

1.       Decentralization. The decentralization undertaken in the framework of the SPP/BAJ project was
one of the most positive aspects. Project decentralization re-energized activities and allowed the qualitative
activities to move ahead more quickly. The decentralization of certain activities to the provinces was an
innovation for the MNE and was met with unqualified success: the building of the schools was entrusted to
the governors, while other activities such as the training of teachers were entrusted to the provincial branch
offices of the MNE. Although the strengthening of institutional capacities represented a challenge to the
SPP/BAJ project, decentralization created opportunities where these institutional capacities could be
developed.

2.       Lump-sum disbursements. The use of lump-sum disbursements upon proof of services is a rather
uncommon practice and yet, when it is well organized, as it was in the BAJ project, it makes it possible to
speed up or to facilitate the implementation of the activities and the pace of the disbursements. Many
countries are reluctant or do not have the capacity to pre-fund the activities planned by a project. Such a
tool could be used in other projects, as long as the activities or service offered conforms, in advance, to the
standards and benchmark criteria agreed upon and examined by the Bank.

3.       Stability of the teams in charge of the project. Ideal project teams should stay intact from
beginning to end of an operation so as to ensure institutional memory, facilitate contacts, and allow a
climate of trust to grow. Yet, changes in project staff are inevitable and planning for management transition
is crucial. The planning would guarantee consistency in the manner of changes to the team, as well as
ensure continuity. For the BAJ Education project, the teams involved in implementation were not very
stable on the part of both the Borrower and the Bank. While on the Bank's side, this phenomenon did not
have damaging consequences, on the Borrower's side, the situation sometimes led to blockages.

4.       Preliminary appraisal of the capacities of the implementing agency. Before a project begins, it is
essential to undertake an appraisal of the capacities of the implementing agency. This step is crucial in
order to put into place the assets need to develop and/or to strengthen institutional capacities. This type of
preliminary appraisal should be required even before a project begins, in order to ensure that when an
upcoming project is implemented, the capacities actually exist and thus avoid creating project management
units (PMU). For the BAJ Education Project, the MNE was the implementing agency, but its shortcomings
led to the creation of a PMU. Even though the lack of capacity was not the only problem, it was important
enough to slow down the implementation of the BAJ Education Project.

5.       Synergy at the level of project design. The initial expectation that the three BAJ project could be
implemented in a synergistic manner by three different ministries proved unrealistic and did not survive the
reality check. A more robust institutional capability assessment would perhaps have informed the Bank in
calling for revisions in the design and the implementation framework to promote better coordination among
the different implementing agencies.

6.       Synergy at the level of the project teams. The SPP/BAJ program was comprised of three projects.
Together they did have an interactive effect and led to greater interaction, such as road construction
apparently leading to greater girls' enrollment. Information collected for this ICR, however, did not indicate
substantial interaction in the planning of activities by the three projects. The Bank teams tended to work in
their own sector and thus on the separate BAJ projects. The Bank should continue to encourage teams to
work together while providing them with the means to do so (create more integrated projects, create
inter-sectoral units, etc.). This need for greater project synergy is felt by the Bank teams that work on



                                                      - 14 -

problems with cross-sectoral implications: marginalized populations, especially young people and children,
or gender issues. For the Borrower, inter-sectoral programs require active participation from all involved
parties, including at the highest levels, as well as the capacity to assure management and follow up on
complex issues.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments. Please see annex 8 Borrower's report

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                                                   - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Indicators 1/
Gross enrollment rate (Grades 1 - 6)          37.8%                             47.46%
Girls' participation rate (Grades 1 - 6)      31%                               45.41%
Number of multigrades classes                 *                                 10222
Retention rates for girls (Grades 1 - 6)      35.9%                             42.7%
Inscriptions                                  *                                 234373 2/

Indicators: The monitoring of the indicator was ensured, but the target value could not been set realistically.

Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Enrollment of girls as a proportion of total  37.8%                             47.46%
enrollment (Grade 1)
Girls enrollment as a proportion of total     72.8%                             82.47%
enrollment (Grades 1 - 6)
Retention rates for girls (Grades 1 - 6)      35.9%                             64.6%
Girls' gross enrollment rates (Grades 1 - 6)  31.0%                             41.4%

1End of project

 1/ Important observation on the rate of school attendance with respect to the age of children registered for the 1st
grade: starting in 1999/2000, schools registered children from age 6, in compliance with the instructions of the
MEN. Therefore, the rates calculated starting from 1999/2000 take this change into account

 2/The literacy program was carried out through agreements concluded with NGO's. The program started in 1998
and the number indicated represents the cumulative number of those registered between 1998 and 2001




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Access an retention                                      43.20           43.30              100
B. Gender gap                                               14.10           13.50               95
C. Quality                                                  17.60           14.70               83
D. Literacy                                                  2.90             3.70             127
E. Capicity building                                         1.40             1.00              71
F. Management                                                0.60             0.40              67

Total Baseline Cost                                         79.80           76.60
 Physical Contingencies                                      7.50
 Price Contingencies                                        10.40
                        Total Project Costs                 97.70           76.60
                  Total Financing Required                  97.70           76.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                                           35.50         0.00          0.00         35.50
                                    ()            (18.10)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (18.10)
2. Goods                          20.40            12.20         8.20          0.80         41.60
                                 (14.00)           (4.00)      (4.40)          (0.00)       (22.40)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.50          0.70          2.20
Technical Assistance              (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.20)          (0.00)       (1.20)
4. Food for school                0.00              0.00        13.60          0.00         13.60
cantines
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (11.50)         (0.00)       (11.50)
5. Training                       0.00              0.00         1.00          0.00          1.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.80)          (0.00)       (0.80)
6. Operating Costs                0.00              0.00         0.00          3.80          3.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          20.40            47.70        24.30          5.30         97.70
                                 (14.00)          (22.10)      (17.90)         (0.00)       (54.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             29.70        0.00           0.00        29.70
                                  (0.00)          (20.80)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (20.80)
2. Goods                          0.00             19.30        0.00           0.00        19.30



                                                - 17 -

                                          (0.00)            (13.50)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (13.50)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              4.10             0.70              4.80
   Technical Assistance                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.30)            (0.00)           (3.30)
   4. Food for school                      0.00               0.00             13.60             0.00             13.60
   cantines
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Training                             0.00               0.00              5.10             0.00              5.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.30)            (0.00)           (3.30)
   6. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              3.70             0.40              4.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.50)            (0.00)           (3.50)
       Total                               0.00              49.00             26.50             1.10             76.60
                                          (0.00)            (34.30)           (10.10)            (0.00)           (44.40)
   3.5 and 3.7 are for conventions.
    US$ 8 million was cancelled in December 2002 and US$1.4 million at project closing.

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Access and retention       20.80        23.60         1.50       20.80         21.00      1.50       100.0     89.0    100.0
B. Gender gap                 13.50         2.90                     9.90         3.60                  73.3     124.1
C. Quality                    15.70         6.40                     9.40         5.30                  59.9      82.8
D. Literacy                    2.80         0.10                     3.50         0.20                  125.0    200.0
E. Capacity building           1.20         0.20                     0.80         0.20                  66.7     100.0
F. Management                  0.00         0.60                                  0.40                   0.0      66.7




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project design was influenced by the forecasts presented in the Sector Action Plan (SAP), particularly the
simulation of alternative scenarios to reach the goal of universal primary education, as well as the
budgetary implications of these scenarios.

The analysis described in the Staff Appraisal Report reveals that the MNE strategy was to set up "satellite
schools" that offered only basic primary education in villages having a limited number of children. The
justification of these satellite schools was based on the principle that the older children would be able and
willing to walk to the more distant "hub school." The Bank suggested a substitute strategy that would
involve setting up small schools that were more complete (with two classrooms) organized according to a
system of classes with multiple levels. In addition to bringing the schools closer to the communities, this
option had the following advantages: (a) complete cycle of primary education; (b) less costly than
traditional schools with a single level and; (c) if the multi-level classes are well organized and supplied with
well-trained teachers and appropriate materials, they are just as effective as single-level classes. It should
be added that bringing the schools closer to the communities could not help but to draw more girls into
basic education. The Staff Appraisal Report predicted that, with the setting up of multi-level classes, the
project would generate a savings estimated at US$6.5 million per year by project end. As part of the BAJ
education project, the construction of 6,358 multi-level classrooms was planned. The project constructed
10,222.

The cost-effectiveness of multi-level classes
Two opinions exist for approaching the question of extending school services to areas with low population
density: the use of hub schools and satellite schools or the use of multi-level education.

Cost comparison between the two options
At the time of the writing of the Supervision Report, the unit cost of the system of hub schools and satellite
schools was DH 2,862 with a teacher-student ratio of 1:15. The hypothetical ideal was to attain a
teacher-student ratio of 1:20. With this option, despite the additional cost inherent to this method of
teaching (estimated at US$40 per pupil), the unit cost is reduced to DH 2,136 which represents a savings of
25 perscent comparison to the situation described earlier.

The cost effectiveness of each option
The cost-effectiveness ratio of each option is measured by its impact on attendance and academic
performance.     The statistical evidence from that period indicates that multi-level education did not
contribute to reducing the retention rates in the schools that adopted this method. Nevertheless, this type of
education enhances access to school and, according to the Staff Appraisal Report, may have contributed to
increasing boys' attendance by 6 percent, and girls' attendance by 76 percent.

International experience reveals that this model is not only more cost effective than the traditional model of
separate classes customary in the satellite schools in Morocco, but that it can also enhance learning as long
as the appropriate methods and teaching aids are available. An outside appraisal report was drawn up in
May 1997, under a project to support the development of the first stage of Basic Education funded by the
World Bank (loan no. 3026 MOR) and executed by UNESCO (Project 700/MOR/13). The conclusions
state "performance of the pupils is better in the complete schools than in the incomplete schools, but that
the recourse to multiple classes to broaden the variety of courses offered in settings where there is limited
staff is not very effective. This result differs from what has been frequently observed in other countries."




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/1994                   4    EDU. SPEC (2); LWYER (1);
                                             DIV. CHIEF (1)
              05/1994                   2    TM (1) IMP. SPEC. (1)
              10/ 1994                  2    EDU. SPEC (1); ST (1)
              02/ 1995                  2    TM (1); IMP. SPEC. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1995                   7    EDU. SPEC. (1); OA (1); S
                                             (1); EHR (1); IMP. SPEC.
                                             (1); DC (1); PS (1)

 Supervision
              06/1995                   6    EHR (2); OA (1); DS (1);         S               S
                                             CONS (1); SED (1)
              09/1996                   2    ES (1); IMPL. SPEC (1)
              05/27/1997                2    FIN. ANALYST (1); HR             U               U
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/16/1997                3    IMPL. SPEC. (1); HR              U             HU
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
              07/02/1998                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             GEN. EDUCATOR (1); INF.
                                             SYSTEM SPEC. (1); CONS.
                                             EQUIPMENT SPEC. (1)
              01/08/1999                8    TM LEADER (1); IPLM. SPEC.       U               U
                                             (1); EDUCATOR (1); SECTOR
                                             LDR (1); SPECIAL ADVISOR
                                             (1); ADVISOR (1); CONS (2)
              11/14/1999                5    TEAM LDER (1);                   S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANAL. (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TEACHER TRAINING (1);
                                             EDUCATION ECON. (1)
              13/11//2000               2    (1); EDUC. SPECIALIST (1);       S               S
                                             ECO. EDU. (1)
              05/14/2001                4    IMPL. SPEC. (1); EDUCATION       S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SECTOR
                                             LEADER (1);
                                             TEACHERS'TRAINING SPEC
                                             (1)
              10/30/2002                3    TTL (1); OPER. OFFICER (1);      S               S
                                             EDU. SPECIALIST (1)
              02/2003                   3    TTL (1); OO (1); ES (1)          S               S
              05/2003                   2    TTL (1); ES (1)                  S               S
              11/2003                   2    TTL (1); OO (1)                  S               S




                                              - 20 -

 ICR
               05/15/2004                              1      ES (1)                            S        S

ICR (Implementation Completion Report)



 CONS= Consultant; DC= Division Chief; EE: Education Economist; EHR= Economist Human Resources;
EquS= Equipment Specialist; ES= Education Specialist; FA= Financial Analyst; FMS=Financial Management
Specialist; GE= General Educator; HRE: Human Resources Economist; HRS= Human Resources Specialist; IS=
Implementation Specialist; ISS= Information System Specialist; ITS: Information Systems Specialist; LW=
Lawyer; OA= Operations Analyst; SL= Sector Leader; SM= Sector Manager; S=Statistician; TL= Team Leader;
TM= Task Manager; TT: Teacher Trainer; TTL= Task Team Leader.




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                --
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                     --                1.558.125,39 **
  Supervision                                               --                     729.904,90
  ICR                                                       --                         25.000
  Total                                                     --                   2.313.030,29
 The Cost Accounting System no longer provides staff-week data.

** This amount also includes the identification of the project.




                                                             - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

                             Annex 7. List of supporting documents


 1. Staff Appraisal Report, basic education project, May 9, 1996.
 2. Mid-term review of education BAJ1, April 12, 1999.
 3. Loan Agreement and documents relating to the amendments of the Loan Agreement (1996, 1999,
    2002).
 4. Mission memorandum and supervision reports (PSR).
 5. L'Étude de suivi et d'évaluation du bilan des réalisations à mi-parcours du premier programme de
    priorités sociales (Follow-up Study and Mid-Term Appraisal of Results of the First Social Priorities
    Program) (BAJ1) - Education de base (Basic Education) (Secrétariat du comité de coordination de
    suivi et d'évaluation des programmes de l'action sociale, January 2000).
 6. L'Étude de suivi et d'évaluation du bilan des réalisations à mi-parcours du premier programme de
    priorités sociales (Follow-up Study and Mid-Term Appraisal of Results of the First Social Priorities
    Program) (BAJ1) - Rapport de synthèse (Summary Report) (Secrétariat du comité de coordination de
    suivi et d'évaluation des programmes de l'action sociale, January 2000).
 7. Rapport d'exécution annuelle du premier programme de priorités sociales (Annual Implementation
    Report on the First Social Priorities        Program) (BAJ1), Exercice budgétaire 2001, (Budgetary
   Fiscal Year 2001), Secrétariat du comité de coordination de suivi et d'évaluation des programmes de
    l'action sociale, September 2002.
 8. Rapport d'activités, Programme de priorités sociales, éducation de base, (Activities Report, Social
    Priorities Program, Basic Education), MEN, Secrétariat général, Unité de gestion du projet BAJ1,
    October 2002.
 9. Early Implementation Assessment (EIA), Assessment Note, 30 January 1998.
10. Minutes of Morocco/BAJ/Early Implementation Review Meeting, 3 January 1998.
11. Condition socio-économique de la femmes au Maroc, Rapport de synthèse - volume No. 1,
    (Socio-economic condition of women in Morocco, Summary Report, volume 1), Ministère de la
    prévision économique et du plan, Direction de la statistique1999 (Ministry of Economic Forecasting
    and Planning, Office of Statistics 1999).
12. Les emplois du temps de la femmes au Maroc, Rapport de synthèse - volume No. 2, (Women's Daily
    Schedules in Morocco, Summary Report, volume 2) Ministère de la prévision économique et du plan,
    Direction de la statistique1999 (Ministry of Economic Forecasting and Planning,Office of Statistics
    1999).




                                                  - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report




                                      - 25 -

- 26 -

