Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15074-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
(BARNAMAJ AL AOULAOUIYAT AL IJTIMAIYA)
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
May 9, 1996
Human Resources Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = DH8.3 (as of April 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31 (until 1995)
July 1 to June 30 (as of 1996)
SCHOOL ACADEMIC YEAR
September to June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAJ           Barnamaj Al Aoulaouaiyat Al Ijtimaiya (Social Priorities Program)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CPR           Centre Pedagogique Regional - Regional Teaching Center
CSSS          Comit de Suivi de la Strategie Sociale (Social Strategy Steering Committee)
DSPP          Direction de la Statistique, de la Prospective et de la Programmation (Directorate
of Statistics, Forecasting, and Planning)
EU            European Union
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
LSMS          Living Standards Measurement Survey
MEAS          Ministre de l'Emploi et des Affaires Sociales (Ministry of Employment and Social
Affairs)
MEN           Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PAS           Programme d 'Action Sectoriel (Sectoral Action Program)
PCS           Programme des Cantines Scolaires (School Canteen Program)
PMIS          Program Management Information System
PN            Promotion Nationale (National Agency for Labor Promotion)
PPS           Programme de Priorites Sociales (Social Priorities Program)
SDS           Strategie de Developpement Social (Social Development Strategy)
SPP           Social Priorities Program
VAT           Value added tax
WFP           World Food Program
ZIP           Zones d'Intervention Prioritaire (Priority Intervention Areas)



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project and Loan Summary
Borrower:                  Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing               The Ministry of National Education (MEN),
Agencies:                  The Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs (MEAS)
The Ministry of Interior (local communities)
Poverty:                   Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                    US$54.0 million equivalent
Terms:                     Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:            0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Foreign              Local                Total
1BRD                    37.5               16.5                 54.0
Government               -                 42.2                 42.2
France                   1.5                                     1.5
Total                   39.0               58.7                 97.7
Net Present Value:         N\A (cost-effectiveness calculations)
Environmental Rating:      C
Staff Appraisal
Report:                    No. 15074
Map No.:                   IBRD 27640
Project ID No.:            5501



I



BASIC DATA
Indicator                                                      Measure      Date
National Wealth
GNP per capita (US$)                                           1040     1993
Population
Total population (million)                                   26,073     1994
Rural population (% of total)                                  48.6     1994
Population growth rate (%)                                      2.1  1982-94
Poverty
Head-count Index
poor (%)                                                    13.1  1990-91
very poor (%)                                               7.0  1990-91
Poverty line (annual DH per person)
very poor (rural)                                         2,040   1990-91
poor (urban)                                              2,730   1990-91
Education
Adult literacy (% of population, age 15+)
Total                                                        45      1991
Female                                                       32      1991
Net school enrollment (%)
Primary                                                      58  1991-92
Secondary                                                    28      1992
Health
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 62     1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per thousand)                             62     1995
General malnutrition (%)                                         15     1992
People per physician (number)                                 2,760     1995
Married women using contraceptives (%age)                        42     1995
Employment
Minimum wage for nonagricultural sectors (DH per day)            50     1995
Minimum wage for agricultural sector (DH per day)                38     1995






TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.        SOCIAL SECTOR BACKGROUND  AND  ISSUES ..........................................  I
A. Economic Context ...........................................1
B. Poverty .......................................... 1
C. Education and Literacy ..........................................                                      2
II.       GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  AND  BANK  RESPONSE .                                    ..................................... 5
A. Government Strategy ..........................................                                         5
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement ..........................................                              7
C. Bank Experience and Lessons Learned ..........................................                         7
III.    THE PROJECT ..........................................                                                      8
A. The Social Priorities Program ..........................................                               8
B. Project Objectives ..........................................                                          9
C. Project Description ..........................................                                         9
IV.  COSTS, FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT
A. Summary of Project Costs ................................... 13
B. Financing ..................................                                                          14
C. Economic Analysis .................................. 15
D. Management and Implementation .................................. 17
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................                                                24
A. Benefits .................................. 24
B. Risks ...................................                                                             25
C. Stakeholders' Participation ...................................                                      25
D. Poverty Category ..................................                                                  26
E. Environmental Assessment ..................................                                          26
VI.       AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS ...............                                  ................... 26
This report, prepared by Mr. Mourad Ezzine (MNIHR), is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Morocco in
June 1995, led by Mr. Benoit Millot (MNIHR), and comprising Messrs. Mourad Ezzine and Jean-Christophe Laederach
(MNIHR). Mrs. Dung-Kim Pham (MNIHR) assisted in preparing the project costs and financing tables. Ms. Elizabeth Sherman
edited project documents. Peer reviewers are Mr. Alexandre Marc (EC4MS) and Mrs. Dominique Van de Walle (PRDPE). Mr.
Jean Francois Dupuy is the lawyer for Morocco, Mrs. Roslyn Hees is MNIHR Division Chief and Mr. Daniel Ritchie is MNI
Department Director.



ANNEXES
1. Basic Sector Information
2. SPP/BAJ: Organizational Structure
3. Provinces Selected for the Program
4. Selected Project Data
5. Summary Cost Tables
6. Economic Analysis Data
7. Procurement and Disbursement Data
8. Summary of Technical Assistance and Training
9. Project Implementation Monitoring: Key Indicators
10. Selected Information in the Project File
MAP Map No. IBRD 27640



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SOCIAL SECTOR BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. Economic Context
1.01   Over the past decade, Morocco has instituted reforms designed to achieve macroeconomic
stability and to liberalize the economy. Wide-reaching and comprehensive, the reforms have
gradually moved Morocco away from a predominantly state-administered economy towards one that
is more market-driven and outward-oriented. Yet, progress achieved on the macroeconomic front
remains fragile, as demonstrated by the continued indebtedness, and the deterioration in the fiscal
and external accounts which were exacerbated by the 1995 drought.
1.02   Morocco's growth rate, which averaged about 4% annually during the last decade, fell well
below expectations and was too low to absorb the country' s growing labor force.  Private
investment and domestic saving rates remain modest; labor productivity is not increasing; and
international competitiveness has recently eroded. The situation has been further exacerbated by the
recent drought, but prospects for 1996 are brighter.  Despite significant recent progress,
performance has also been disappointing in the social sectors. Morocco's indicators in health,
education, literacy, and access to safe water continue to lag behind those of economically
comparable countries.  A fifth of the population still lives in poverty or near-poverty, urban
unemployment rates have reached 20%, and rural women are still economically and socially
marginalized.
1.03   Morocco's low social performance and its relative economic success are intimately related.
For even with constructive political and economic reforms in place, the country cannot reach and
sustain higher economic growth rates without a substantial accumulation of human capital. To
achieve such a reserve, it must boost its investment in the provision of basic social services.
Conversely, without sustained economic growth, it will be extremely difficult to substantially
improve employment opportunities and living conditions of its population, which already stands at
26 million and is growing apace.
B. Poverty
1.04   Data gathered from  the 1985 Household Consumption Survey and the 1991 Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) showed that the share of Morocco's population living
below the poverty line fell from 21 to 13% in those six years, while the GNP per capita rose by
about 30% (and presently hovers at around US$1, 100). This performance was achieved during the
period of structural adjustment. Adding the number of those whose expenditure levels are just
above the poverty line to the number of those who live below it, more than 3.3 million Moroccans
are still poor enough to be isolated from the mainstream economy.



- 2 -
1.05   Urban, rural, and regional variations are also striking, and the gap dividing them  is
deepening. In 1991, 72% of all poor lived in rural areas as compared to 70% six years earlier.
Likewise, while a quarter of the population lived in poverty in the Center-North, East, and Center-
South regions, the poverty rate was below 5 % in coastal areas. In rural areas, the poor are typically
either seasonally underemployed wage-earners or small-scale farmers.  In urban areas they are
mostly self-employed people who work in the informal sector, underpaid (often temporary) wage-
earners, or are unemployed. If access to basic social services is taken into account, still more
differences between urban and rural areas come to light.
1.06   Along with low pay, unemployment and underemployment are major determinants of
poverty. In the early 1990s, the aggregate unemployment rate in urban areas was estimated at 16 to
20%, but among the urban poor the unemployment rate reached 30%. Unemployment rates are
much lower in rural areas, but these areas suffer substantial, chronic underemployment.  Not
surprisingly unemployment is most widespread among those with little or no education, but neither
are those with a secondary education immune. Unemployment rates are higher for women overall.
1.07   The growing importance of the informal sector --although a sign of the economy's
dynamism and ability to absorb excess labor supply and react to demand-- reflects an increase in the
reservoir of persons prone to fall below the poverty threshold.  The poverty assessment report
(World Bank 1994a) found a strong link between poverty in economic terms and such social ills as
low literacy, education, health, and nutrition levels and high fertility rates. That report, and other
studies, also found a strong correlation between income levels and degree of access to basic social
services. In light of these findings, the report strongly recommends the rehabilitation of basic social
services as a necessary prerequisite for the durable alleviation of poverty. Yet, until recently the
various social policies and programs were not strongly coordinated, and the link between this
disparate set of sectoral actions and the macroeconomic framework was loose.  There was,
moreover, no visible political will to address the problem of lagging social sector performance.
C. Education and Literacy
1.08   Since its independence in 1956, Morocco has accorded special priority to education with its
major policy thrusts to increase capacity at all levels, standardize and arabize the curriculum, and
moroccanize the teaching personnel.  Substantial progress has been made in all of these areas.
Enrollments have climbed steeply from the primary grades to university, and almost all of the
teaching personnel, even at the higher education level, are now Moroccan.
1.09   Yet despite this headway, Morocco's education system  is still plagued by major
deficiencies, which are almost certainly curtailing the country's prospects for long-term economic
growth.  The level of illiteracy remains high; for many citizens --especially girls-- primary
education (referred to as the "Enseignement Fondamental le, cycle" or "lower basic education") is
of low quality and insufficient coverage despite substantial educational reforms in the mid-1980s;
resources are allocated inefficiently, favoring secondary schools (corresponding to the "upper basic"
and the secondary education levels) to the detriment of primary education, and the urban elite to the
detriment of rural and disadvantaged groups (see Annex 1).
Low literacy level
1.10   Between the 1971 census and the 1991 household Living Standard Measurement Survey
(LSMS), the overall illiteracy rate in Morocco dropped from 75 to 55%.    This is substantial
progress, yet more than half of the population over the age of nine is still illiterate --double the rate



- 3 -
characteristic of equivalent lower-middle-income countries. In addition, the pace of the progress
seems to have reached a plateau: according to the first results of the last census, the illiteracy rate
for the population aged 10 and over was still around 55% in 1994. Disparities among different
societal groups within Morocco are even more striking: 70% of women are illiterate as compared to
44% of men, and nearly 77% of the rural population is illiterate as compared to 38% of urban
dwellers. When both gender and locale are considered, the gap is still wider: 90% of rural women
are illiterate as compared to less than 26%  of urban men.  As in other countries, in Morocco
illiteracy is closely associated with such poverty indicators as high morbidity rates, poor nutrition,
and low income levels. But in Morocco, the urban-rural gap continues to widen with every
generation and the male-female gap has not narrowed appreciably since independence.
1.11   The Government has carried out several large-scale literacy campaigns over the last twenty
years. The most recent one, from 1990 to 1992, reached more than 600,000 people. Yet these
efforts were not well-targeted, and their impact has been small. The overall decrease in illiteracy in
Morocco is more a reflection of higher child enrollments than of adult literacy campaigns. Parental
illiteracy continues to hinder the education of children, particularly girls in the rural areas, whose
chances of learning to read and write have been shown to depend heavily on mothers' level of
education.
Lagging primary enrollments
1.12   In 1993-94, 4 million children were enrolled in the six grades of lower basic (ages seven to
twelve), upper basic (ages thirteen to fifteen) and secondary (ages sixteen to eighteen) education
system. Including children in modern preschools and Koranic schools, the overall enrollment was
just 41 %  from  ages four to twenty-three.  While that figure is lower than the 51 %  overall
enrollment rate averaged by the countries in the reference group, Morocco's 69% primary
enrollment rate lags even more shockingly behind the 87% averaged by the reference group.
1.13   For largely unknown reasons, primary enrollments in Morocco dropped sharply from 1982
to 1984, falling 30.5% in just two years, then returned to the previous levels and stagnated there
until 1989. Since the 1990 education campaigns undertaken by the Government, primary enrollment
rates have risen rapidly. In 1993 new admissions were 24% higher than those in 1982, and from
1980 to 1993, enrollment also increased 3.7% in upper basic grades and 4% in secondary schools.
1.14   Yet, the net enrollment rate of rural children in primary education is still well below that of
their urban counterparts (58% versus 82% in 1994 ), and the educational prospects of Morocco's
rural girls is even dimmer, with a net primary enrollment rate of 34% (vs. 85% for urban boys).
Female enrollments are far more sensitive than male enrollments to both school-related and
nonschool-related variables (such as family size and composition, domestic chores, and economic
status). These demand-side factors must therefore be dealt with if Morocco is to improve its rural
girls' prospects for getting an education.
1.15   Recent studies following quite different approaches and data sources have uncovered a
number of critical determinants of girl's school participation (MEN 1993, World Bank 1995a,
World Bank 1994b and World Bank 1993). It is well-known that girls' schooling generates greater
opportunity costs than boys' and that their enrollment and retention at school is related to the
existence of such school amenities as latrines, drinkable water, and canteens. Canteens in Morocco
are particularly associated with significantly higher school attendance, and in 1993-94,
960,000 children benefited from the national School Canteen Program, 88% of which was financed
by the World Food Program and the rest by the Ministere de I'Education Nationale (Ministry of



- 4 -
National Education, MEN). Urgent food needs in other countries, however, have obliged the
World Food Program to taper off its aid to Morocco, which will continue to receive assistance on a
declining basis for the next two or three years contingent upon the submission of a substitution plan.
1.16   Koranic preschools have great potential for raising primary enrollment rates overall. Pilot
projects aimed at promoting Koranic preschools, implemented by the MEN with financial support
from the UNICEF and specialized NGOs, have yielded encouraging results--particularly in terms of
modernizing this traditional institution and improving outcomes. While the tradition of Koranic
preschools is not as well-implanted in rural as in urban areas, they are still better accepted by some
parents than are modern schools and therefore represent a potential vehicle for promoting schooling
and improving achievement in basic education.
Low guality and internal efficiency
1.17   Reliable data regarding schools' achievements are not yet available, although various
evaluations are under way. Assessments of learning achievement that have been realized suggest
that there has been a decline in learning performance in basic subjects overall and weak achievement
in higher-order skills, with tremendous disparities between urban and rural areas. The low quality
of instructional materials in most schools reflects the high level of expenditure on personnel (97% of
the basic education operating budget), which drains funding from all other inputs. A recent survey
of rural schools showed that in the poorest provinces, only half the teachers had the required
teachers' guides. Math tests show that urban children outperform their rural counterparts, that
completion rates are lower for rural children than for urban ones, and that under-investment in
education is more pronounced in rural than in urban areas. They also suggest that boys do better
than girls, but that additional schooling can significantly improve girls' performances (World
Bank 1994b).
1.18   Although schools' internal efficiency has improved as a result of the mid-1980s education
reforms, dropout rates are still an area of concern. In the past, MEN used a system of nucleus (six-
grade) and satellite (two- or four-grade) schools. When a rural student reached the last grade of a
satellite school, he or she was usually obliged to walk to a more remote nucleus school serving
several satellites. Many girls, especially, failed to make the transition, which proved to be a strong
incentive for dropping out.
Inefficient resource use
1.19   Most education funding comes from the State (84% of the total). The rest is provided by
families (11 %), local governments (3%) and business (2%).  In 1992 the central Government
allocated 28 % of its budget to the Ministry of National Education and 35 % to education and training
in general, amounting to 7.3% of GDP. But although these percentages are markedly higher than
the 17 % for education (equal to 6.6% of GDP), averaged by the reference group, indicators suggest
that Morocco's education system gets worse results, especially with regard to literacy and basic
education. In addition, only expenditures for basic education represent a social transfer to the poor,
who out-number the middle class and wealthy at that level but are under-represented in the upper
educational grades. Combined with the steep increase in unit costs (US$200 at the lower basic
level, US$490 at the upper level, and US$820 at the secondary level in 1992), skewing support
toward the upper levels has the effect of a large-scale transfer of public funding to the least needy
(World Bank 1994c).



- 5 -
1.20   A break-down of operational expenditures by level of education shows that lower basic
education's relative share is low (35% as against 43% in the reference group) while that for upper
basic grades and secondary education is high (46% as against 23%). Expenditures on higher
education are slightly below the reference group average. A functional analysis of public spending
for education, moreover, reveals the burden placed by the teaching and nonteaching staff wage bill,
which makes up 97 % of the total operating budget for lower basic education and 95 % of the budget
for upper-basic and secondary schooling (World Bank 1994d).
1.21   Morocco's excessive teaching staff wage bill derives more from an unrealistic staffmg
policy, than from generous compensation practices--although primary school teachers' salaries were
a multiple of 4.8 per capita GDP in 1992, as compared to a multiple of 2.5 for Asian countries. In
1993-94 the student:teacher ratio was as low as 28:1 for lower basic, 18:1 for upper basic, and 13: 1
for secondary schools, having steadily declined from 1980-81 to 1990-91. The ranks of certain
categories of nonteaching personnel have also become swollen, so that the lower basic education
student:support-staff ratio fell from some 290:1 in 1989-90 to 180:1 in 1993-94. At the upper-basic
level, 13% of teachers (some nine people per school) and at the secondary level, 15% of teachers
(eleven people per school) are assigned to administrative or financial duties. The reasons for this
evolution have been clearly identified by the MEN and include the low demographic density in rural
areas, the artificial creation of jobs in schools during the 1980s to mitigate the impact of
unemployment among university graduates, the fact that teacher training- school graduates far
outnumber the actual demand for teachers, and the lack of transparency in personnel assignment and
management. At the same time, the staffing of rural schools remains problematic, particularly in
small villages where housing is difficult to find. Long commuting time for teachers results in
absenteeism, loss of efficiency, and high turnover.
II. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND BANK RESPONSE
A. Government Strategy
2.01   For a long time in Morocco, spending to promote human capital was not considered an
investment that would ultimately lead to greater and more sustainable economic growth, and instead,
economic growth was perceived as the only engine of social progress. Therefore, social concerns
were not a top Government priority and, despite indisputable sectoral improvement during the 1980s
and 1990s, there was no comprehensive, long-term plan for the social welfare of the country.
2.02   But following an era of thorough macroeconomic adjustment and worrisome decline in
social conditions throughout the Kingdom, the Government has started to focus on social issues in a
more concerted manner.  In 1993 it issued the Social Development Strategy (Strategie de
Developpement Social pour la Decennie 1990, SDS), which sets forth clear directives aimed at
reversing past trends and establishing the framework for a sound social policy. Based on the 1991
Living Standards Measurement Survey, the Government strategy made extending basic social
services to the poor and increasing their participation in economically productive activities its
highest social goals. Such extended coverage would include access to safe water, sewage facilities,
health care, family planning services, nutrition, primary education, literacy programs, and
subsidized public housing. But recognizing prevailing budgetary constraints, the strategy stresses
the inter- and intra-reallocation of resources and introduction of cost-recovery mechanisms. It also
advocates action to promote employment and bolster social protection. Finally, the SDS emphasizes



- 6 -
that a strong and appropriate administrative vehicle and reliable statistical monitoring system are
required for the implementation of its recommendations.
2.03   The Government gave the first version of the Strategie de Developpement Social pour la
Decennie 1990 to the Bank in the context of the second adjustment program. Following the
appraisal of the Social Priorities Program, the strategy was updated, formally re-endorsed by the
new Government, and officially conveyed to the Bank [para. 6.01a]. Its internalization throughout
the relevant agencies is now underway. Specific sectoral action plans are being developed for the
education and health sectors as part of the preparation of the Social Priorities Program.  The
creation of the Ministry of Population, which has the responsibilities of a ministry of planning, and
should be able to coordinate actions throughout the social sectors within a unifying framework, is
another signal that the Government is taking social concerns seriously and is adapting its institutions
accordingly. Finally, the King's recent request to the Bank to frame a long-term vision statement
for the education sector, his October 1995 address to the Parliament of Morocco following reception
of the Bank's statement (World Bank 1995b), and his decision to disseminate it widely, all point to
the fact that concerns for education now emanate from the highest levels of the power hierarchy.
Recent initiatives taken and/or being prepared by the two ministers in charge of education to
rationalize their respective subsectors are encouraging too.
2.04   The Government is particularly concerned that even high levels of public spending have
done little to close the education gap separating Morocco from the reference group of countries.
Since 1991, therefore, the Government has conducted several studies, collecting the data needed to
formulate a catch-up strategy for targeting female enrollment in order to boost the admission rate
from its present 34% in rural areas to 55% by 2000-01. The approach rests on three pillars:
(a)    Targeting resources. The problem of rural school enrollments must be addressed within
the context of a broader strategy for wiping out poverty and increasing economic and social
development in rural areas.  The Government is therefore starting to target the most
disadvantaged groups and geographical regions for the provision of basic social services.
(b)   Improving efficiency and quality. The strategy for adapting the education system to the
needs of sparsely populated rural areas is to bring schools closer to the students, to
reorganize schools wherever possible on the model of a multigrade system, to make
available the most effective school inputs, and to offer more programs covering the full six
primary grades.
(c)    Addressing nonschool factors. The strategy to rectify nonschool factors that undermine
demand for schooling is to improve the effectiveness of literacy programs, step up
information and awareness-raising campaigns for parents, and re-focus the public works
program to create supplementary income in targeted regions.
2.05   The MEN has developed a Plan d'Action Sectoriel (PAS, Sector Action Program)--an
operational program for basic and secondary education from 1995 to 2000 that seeks to correct
distortions in the allocation and management of education resources. Under this plan, Morocco has
already decentralized school construction to local communities. It now hopes to generate savings by
improving efficiency, by balancing the resources allocated to basic and secondary education to
reflect more accurately the nation's education priorities. What options would be offered to students
once they reached the end of basic education remains to be defined, for access to the public system
would necessarily remain restricted. Policy discussions under way in the Moroccan Parliament have
touched on the possibility of encouraging the development of private post-basic education (which, at



present, accounts for barely 8% of the total) and of introducing cost-recovery measures into the
public system from secondary school on. In March 1995 the Ministry of National Education was
split into two in an effort to rationalize the sector's administrative structure. Higher education is
now under the responsibility of a separate ministry, while responsibility for primary and secondary
education remains with the MEN.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.06   The severe state of degradation of Morocco's social sectors underscores the urgent need for
intensive, durable action. Bank support for such action is called for both by the present climate of
support in the Government and by the Bank's own Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), currently
under preparation, which puts investing in people as its first priority. Bank support for the social
sector would also accord with its parallel efforts to strengthen macroeconomic performance and
encourage growth through private investment. Other donors have viewed the goals of the Strategie
de Developpement Social pour la Decennie 1990 (based on the Living Standards Measurement
Survey and confirmed by the World Bank poverty assessment) as a rallying point, and support for
SDS policies is fully in line with the Bank's strategy of poverty alleviation and Morocco's overall
plan to develop its human resources. Since the Bank has already financed several projects in
Morocco's social sectors--especially in health and education--the proposed project would be an
extension of earlier Bank involvement. The Country Economic Memorandum (World Bank 1995c)
provides a solid body of evidence that programs whose aim is to improve Morocco's human capital
base and to increase labor efficiency and productivity warrant reinforcement of present Bank
support. Finally, a recent study of the region's present situation and long-term prospects (World
Bank 1995d) shows that Morocco, along with its neighbors, is experiencing high unemployment and
now feels an especially urgent need for bold programs aiming for both economic growth and
poverty alleviation. The Bank's role in promoting the Government's social strategy and marshaling
international and bilateral support for social programs will be critical if Morocco is to succeed in the
fight it is waging against poverty, both in terms of equity and of economic growth.
2.07   The Ministry of Education's Sector Action Plan, which needs to be adjusted in light of the
1996-2000 Economic and Social Development Plan, addresses all of the important issues facing the
education sector (including access, retention, equity, quality, efficiency, and financing). The plan
takes into account the conclusions of various recent studies, the Bank's general views on the sector,
and the vision statement on education the World Bank recently addressed to the King (World Bank
1995b). In line with the SDS, it advocates using an integrated package of interventions to reach
target areas and populations. By opening up basic education facilities, making school attendance
less expensive and easier for poor families, and linking literacy programs to productive employment
promotion activities, the proposed project would contribute greatly to the overall alleviation of
poverty, a primary Bank goal. The determination of the Government to act on rectifying both the
school and nonschool factors that are presently undermining the demand for primary education in
rural areas and its resolve to systematize cost-effective approaches to increase enrollments in these
areas, deserve clear encouragement from the Bank, which has been recommending such measures
for a long time.
C. Bank Experience and Lessons Learned
2.08   In the past, the Bank has supported several operations in Morocco's social sectors, and
three such projects are currently being implemented (two in education and one in health: the Health
Sector Investment Project, Loan 3171-MOR). The main general lessons to be drawn from these
operations are as follows: (a) Reforms in the social sectors should not be overly ambitious because



- 8 -
of their immense impact on large groups and the political risks attached to them. (b) A good
management information system and simple and transparent management, procurement, and
disbursement procedures must be in place for all Bank-financed activities. Such measures are also
meant to offset cumbersome local financing circuits, which tend to delay execution and slow down
disbursements, especially for decentralized project activities. A study is currently being conducted
by the Government to identify precisely the bottlenecks and the sources of delays. (c) To ensure
full acceptance of the project, it is critical to seek the early involvement of all constituents--in
particular, employees of line ministries at the provincial and local level who will play a crucial role
during project implementation. It is equally important to involve other Government constituencies
(such as the Ministry of Finance) and other donors early enough in the process to guarantee
successful future collaboration. (d) Finally, realistic budgetary envelopes have to be projected (and
committed) to ensure the sustainability of sectoral programs and actions.
Lessons learned in the education sector
2.09   Since 1963, the Bank has financed eight projects (two credits and six loans) in the education
sector, including a sector adjustment project, the Education Sector Reform Program (Loan
2664-MOR, US$150 million, 1986-88), and two projects currently being implemented: the Rural
Primary Education Project (Loan 3026-MOR, US$83 million, 1989-96) and the Rural Basic
Education Development Project (Loan 3295-MOR, US$145 million, 1991-97). The PPAR (Report
No. 12558) for the sector adjustment project identifies "insufficient understanding of the
determinants of demand for education in rural areas" as a major source of failure of operations in
the education sector. The ongoing projects confirm that if demand factors are not addressed, it is
unlikely that school attendance in rural areas will substantially increase. They also demonstrate that
project execution can be substantially improved if (i) project implementation units are well staffed
and well integrated in the national administrative structure, (ii) accountability of the various actors --
Education, Finances and Interior-- is better defined and the responsibility of operations is left to the
MEN, and (iii) the MEN sub-contracts the management of technical assistance to institutions --such
as UN agencies--. Finally, these projects, together with former operations, show that (i) the
problems faced at each level of education are complex and specific to each sub-sector, and should
not be lumped together in a single project, and (ii) reforms aiming to introduce more efficiency and
to alter the pattern of resource allocation in the education sector require time. Further to such a
long exposure to Bank procedures, seasoned implementation teams are in place within the MEN.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Social Priorities Program
3.01   The proposed project is part of the Social Priorities Program  I (SPP I; Barnamaj al-
Aoualaouiyat al-Ijtimaiya, or BAJ I, in Arabic; Programmne Priorites Sociales I, or PPS I, in
French), initiated to assist the Government in the implementation of its strategy to increase the
poor's access to basic social services, enhance basic social protection, and create new opportunities
for the under- and unemployed to participate in economically productive activities. The program
would also bolster Government awareness of poverty-related and social issues and catalyze efforts to
rehabilitate Morocco's social sectors. While the SPP would entail a series of consecutive programs
following one another at a rapid pace, SPP/BAJ I was conceived as a set of three complementary --
but independent-- projects to be implemented simultaneously (Annex 2). All three share the same



broad objectives, were developed within the same framework, and would be implemented
independently within the same geographical area.
3.02   By using a multisectoral approach-- which is expected to yield more significant and durable
results than serial, strictly sectoral projects-- this tripartite program would help to guarantee
flexibility in execution and should therefore be a more efficient way to channel energies and
resources. The SPP/BAJ would target rural areas in Morocco's thirteen poorest and least urbanized
provinces, where 27% of the total population, or 7.1 million people, currently live (provinces and
selection criteria are listed in Annex 3). By involving provincial authorities in project monitoring,
moreover, the SPP/BAJ should achieve the integration needed to reinforce its impact.  The
objectives of the three projects would be: (a) to increase the quality and quantity of basic education
while at the same time making the education system more efficient and equitable; (b) to improve
access to basic health services and improve their quality while bolstering performance and
managerial capacities within the health care system; (c) to enhance basic rural infrastructure through
labor-intensive techniques; and (d) to establish a permanent apparatus for data collection and
analysis that would strengthen the government's ability to galvanize support for SDS activities and
monitor their impact.
B. Project Objectives
3.03   The proposed education project would strengthen human capital by making education and
literacy available to populations that have hitherto been deprived of them. In particular, it would
build on earlier Bank assistance extended for the purpose of increasing access to and improving the
quality of primary education. The objective of this project is to contribute to the Government's
efforts to boost its educational system in both qualitative and quantitative terms and to make its
performance correspond more closely to that in economically comparable countries.
3.04   Unlike earlier projects, however, this project would (a) target the poorest population in the
country; (b) aim to have an impact on both the supply of and demand for education; and (c) affect
institutions both upstream (Koranic preschools) and downstream (literacy education for adults) of
the formal education system. The proposed project would be concentrated in specific communities
located in the thirteen selected provinces. These 'priority intervention areas" (Zones d'Intervention
Prioritaire, ZIP) have been selected on the basis of a group of indicators showing low overall
demand and low female enrollment rates (Annex 4). Several donors have expressed an interest in
supporting the Government's educational strategy.
C. Project Description
3.05   The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period plus one year to
complete disbursemnets, at a total cost of US$97.7 million equivalent and would consist of five
components:
(a)    Improving access to and retention rates in remote rural areas by expanding the supply of
available basic schooling.
(b)    Reducing the gap between the school participation rates of boys and girls.
(c)    Improving education quality.
(d)    Improving the performance of Government literacy programs.



- 10 -
(e)    Providing technical support to the MEN to operationalize and implement its Sector Action
Plan, which aims to reallocate resources to priority programs and improve budgetary
efficiency.
Improving access to and retention in basic education
3.06    The first project component (US$52.8 million) would expand the supply of basic education
by improving school accessibility and coverage. To improve accessibility, the MEN would establish
schools in every rural community that had more than 200 inhabitants and was not already served by
a school "reasonably close by." Because of the variety of climates, terrain and populations that
characterize the thirteen selected provinces, the decision about which schools were "reasonably
close" would be entrusted to the provincial planning units. To the extent possible, the MEN would
make the newly built schools multigrade so that schools close to rural communities would offer the
full basic education course.
3.07   The component designed to increase access and retention rates would include:
(a)    Building and equipping about 360 multigrade schools with a maximum of two classrooms in
communities with over 200 inhabitants that do not already have a full primary school
nearby.
(b)    Completing the infrastructure by building additional class-rooms for approximately 650
satellite schools, so that they can offer full primary education and multigrade courses.
(c)    Developing a new  methodology and teaching materials for multigrade teaching and
organizing preservice and inservice training for about 5,000 teachers assigned to multigrade
classes and for all new teachers. The French Government has already decided to increase
the number of its technical assistants to foster multigrade teaching in the target provinces,
and is expected to fund the development part of this element [para. 6.03b(i)]. Proof of this
parallel financing was given at negotiations.
(d)    Supporting the Government effort to strengthen the School Canteen Program to the targeted
areas by equipping new canteens and helping the Government to meet the canteen
program's operating costs during the period of disengagement of the World Food Program
(WFP) and possibly to the end of the project. Support would include food requirements
for a limited number of pupils in the provinces from where the WFP will be withdrawing.
Priority would be given to schools in communities with the lowest female enrollment rates.
A plan committing the Government to fund the School Canteen Program fully would be
discussed during the mid-term evaluation review (to be held before June 30, 1999) and
would be a condition for the continuation of Bank support for the Canteen Program to the
end of the project [para. 6.03d(i)].
(e)   Improving facilities for approximately 100 preschools by distributing modest furnishings
and teaching materials to selected Koranic pre-schools and setting up a program for initial
and continuing pedagogical and professional training for Koranic school teachers.
(f)    Carrying out a series of studies and small scale experiments of techniques for imparting
basic skills to children aged ten to sixteen who never attended primary school.



- 11 -
Reducing the gender gap
3.08   By addressing the various demand factors presently affecting girls' enrollments, the second
project component (US$17.4 million) would reinforce the effects of the first one. All elements
contributing to increased access and lower dropout rates would also promote greater female
participation and would therefore help to reduce the education gap between boys and girls. This
component, however, would specifically target girls by reducing the cost of education to families,
upgrading schools, ensuring that whenever possible newly-built schools had access to drinkable
water and latrines, and fostering community involvement in operating schools. The component
would include the following elements:
(a)    Distributing textbooks and school supplies free of charge to underprivileged children, with
priority given to girls.
(b)    Installing about 300 latrines and 150 wells in schools characterized by low  female
enrollments.
(c)    Rehabilitation of school facilities aiming at increasing girls' attendance.
(d)    Organizing two awareness campaigns for each targeted community over the project period
to promote schooling for girls in rural areas. The campaigns would target families and
would be organized with the help of local elected officials and central administration
representatives.
Improving education qcuality
3.09   The project's third component (US$21.6 million) would provide a standard set of
instructional materials to each school, test and organize remedial courses for underachievers, set up
an "innovation fund" to promote school-based projects, and provide housing for teachers in remote
areas (which would complement efforts to devise an improved methodology for multigrade
teaching). The component would include the following:
(a)    Providing furnishings and a minimum  set of instructional materials to all schools that
presently lack them.
(b)    Distributing Teachers' Guides to all teachers assigned to rural schools.
(c)    Making shared pedagogical resources available to students and teachers (mobile libraries).
(d)    Testing and organizing remedial courses for underachieving pupils.
(e)    Equipping school inspectorates with vehicles suitable for the terrain, so that they can visit
more schools in their catchment area more often.
(f)    Organizing short management training courses for school directors to help them run their
schools more effectively.
(g)    Promoting innovation at the school level. Using agreed guidelines and criteria for project
identification, presentation and selection, a provincial board would choose a small number
of projects whose aim is to raise the quality of education, strengthen professional relations



- 12 -
among school teachers, promote school life, and integrate it into the community. Schools
would be grouped in categories according to indicators of quality, and projects from the
more deprived schools would be selected.  Final agreement on funding mechanisms
(selection criteria, financial responsibilities, etc.) was reached during  negotiations
[para. 6.03a(i)]. Each year a competition would be organized to grant prizes to the most
successful projects.
(h)    Building about 180 houses to board teachers in remote areas, to increase the likelihood that
they would stay in the schools they are assigned to.
Literacy programs
3.10   The proposed project's fourth component (US$3.7 million) would be based on the
observation that parents with higher levels of literacy are more willing to send their children to
school. Mothers' level of literacy, in fact, is one of the factors most strongly associated with girls'
access to primary education. In order to put into practice the lessons learned from earlier literacy
campaigns, the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs (MEAS) designed a pilot program to test
a new type of literacy campaign, which would strengthen people's motivation to become literate by
seeking a field of application for the newly acquired knowledge from the outset. Given the novelty
of this approach and the emphasis on quality, the pilot campaign would be limited to 2,500 people a
year --half of them women-- in the six provinces chosen for targeting under the pilot project. The
component would include the following:
(a)    Providing technical assistance for the development of strategies to follow up on gains made
during literacy campaigns. One of the pilot activities in this area would be to link literacy
programs to the public works activities supported by the third SPP/BAJ project
(Employment Promotion and Poverty Monitoring) and implemented by the Promotion
Nationale, a labor intensive public works agency.
(b)   Designing appropriate training support (including materials relevant to women), and
retraining instructors.
Capacity building
3.11   The fifth project component (US$1.6 million) would provide the technical assistance,
training, and equipment necessary for the MEN to implement, monitor, and adjust its Sectoral
Action Plan (PAS). Under this plan, the Government would shift budgetary resources to basic
education to promote wider coverage and better quality, particularly in rural areas, and would
preserve a core program of expenditures for basic education (Annex 4, table 3). The plan would
also address the problem of inefficiencies in resource allocation and use, especially with regard to
secondary staff appointments. The content of the PAS has already been discussed and deemed
satisfactory by the Bank. It was transmitted officially to the Bank before negotiations [para. 6.02a].
3.12   The most important elements of the capacity building component are the following:
(a)    Development of a public expenditure program for the primary and secondary education
sectors in agreement with the Ministries of Finance and Population, and training personnel
in the MEN's Directorate of Statistics, Forecasting, and Planning (DSPP) in techniques
related to such a program's development. The program would single out core (wage and
non-wage) expenditures for primary education. It would be prepared and updated each year



- 13 -
and transmitted to the Bank for discussion by July 31 of each year, beginning 1997
[para. 6.03b(ii)].
(b)    Completion of a series of assessments of existing personnel management procedures
(including appointments, transfers, and the placement of newly appointed personnel), and
provision of computerized monitoring and evaluation tools to the planning divisions of the
provincial planning  offices  of the  MEN   (delegations)  by  December  31,  1997.
[para. 6.03a(ii)].
(c)    Development of a prospective school mapping methods to take into account such contextual
variables as family situation and community characteristics and coordinating school
expansion with other investment programs.
Proiect Management
3.13   The last component (US$0.7 million) would support project management and monitoring
activities.
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, AND MANAGEMENT
A. Summary of Project Costs
4.01    Total costs of the three projects which, together, constitute the SPP/BAJ, are estimated at
US$266  million  equivalent.   Total costs of the proposed  first project are estimated  at
US$97.7 million equivalent, including US$18.0 million for contingencies (18%) and US$13.9
million for taxes (14%). The foreign exchange component is equivalent to US$39.0 million (47%
of total project costs excluding taxes). A summary of project costs appears in Table 4. 1. (See also
Annex 5.)
4.02   Contingency allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance --for unforeseen
physical variations-- equal to US$7.6 million (9% of total project cost excluding taxes). Price
contingencies between negotiations and project completion are estimated at US$10.4 million (12%
of total project costs excluding taxes). The following annual rates have been applied: 5% per year
for local costs, 2.6% per year for foreign costs.
Table 4.1. Project cost summary by component
Cost                               (DH Million)                 (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Component
Access and retention     182.6     175.8    358.4       22.0       21.2      43.2
Red.gendergap             79.1      37.5     116.6       9.5       4.5       14.1
Quality                  100.8      44.9     145.7      12.1       5.4       17.6
Literacy                  15.8       8.5      24.3       1.9       1.0        2.9
Capacity building          4.9       6.5      11.4       0.6       0.8        1.4
Management                 2.3       2.5       4.8       0.3       0.3        0.6
Total base cost          385.5     275.6    661.1       46.4       33.2      79.7
Physical                  37.5      25.2      62.8       4.5       3.0        7.6
Price                     64.1      22.6      86.7       7.7       2.7       10.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS'       487.2     323.4    810.6      58.7       39.0       97.7
* Numbers rounded off to nearest decimal may not add up to totals shown.



- 14 -
4.03   Foreign exchange component. The foreign exchange component is estimated as follows:
construction: 25%; pedagogical material: 35%; furniture: 25%; equipment, vehicles, computers:
70%; foreign specialists and training abroad: 90%; locally recruited specialists, local training, local
seminars: 10%. The resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US$39.0 million,
representing 47 % of total project costs, excluding taxes.
4.04   Customs duties and taxes. Directly imported goods and goods procured locally average
an import duty and taxes of 20%. Indirect taxes on civil works are estimated at 15 %.
B. Financing
4.05   The financing of the project would consist of (a) a Bank loan of US$54.0 million equivalent
(64% of total project costs excluding taxes); (b) parallel cofinancing equivalent to US$1.5 million
(FF 7.0 million) from France, and representing 1.8% of total project costs excluding taxes; and (c)
a Government contribution of US$28.3 million equivalent, plus US$13.9 million in taxes. (See
Table 4.2 and Annex 5). The loan would cover 96% of the foreign exchange costs of the project,
the remaining 4% would be covered by French Bilateral Cooperation. In addition the loan would
cover 33% of the local costs (net of taxes). The Government would finance the balance of local
costs, taxes, and all operating costs associated with the implementation, administration, and
supervision of the project--including staff salaries and architectural and engineering services.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances be that all necessary measures would be
taken to ensure that adequate and timely financial arrangements were in place at all times for the
continued and successful operation of the project. This would include providing counterpart funds
and establishing an individual budget line for the project for the duration of the project, starting with
the fiscal year 96/97 [para. 6.03b(iii)]. In addition, retroactive financing up to 10% of the loan
amount was agreed upon during negotiations [para. 6.03b(iv)].
Table 4.2. Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Ministry of      Local                   % of total project
Funding       Ministry of   Employment and   Communities            costs excluding taxes
Source       Education     Social Affairs      (1)          Total
IBRD               33.0               2.0          19.0        54.0                 64
France              1.5                 -             -         1.5                   2
Government         15.4               0.8          12.1        28.3                  34
taxes               7.5               0.3           6.1        13.9
Total              57.4               3.1          37.2        97.7
(1)This refers to the construction of educational facilities, to be implemented by communities, and financed by the Ministry of
Interior.
4.06   It is expected that the component designed to improve school access and retention rates
(US$52.8 million) would receive parallel cofinancing from France of US$1.5 million equivalent.
Although of a relatively small monetary value, French participation is of great importance in the
design of the component, and would bring to the project considerable experience with multigrade
schooling. Proof of French commitment to cofinance was received at negotiations [para. 6.03b(i)].



- 15 -
Several other agencies --especially UNDP, UNICEF, USAID-- and the European Union (EU) have
also shown interest in the SPP/BAJ in general, and in the education project in particular. While
differing Moroccan Government, EU and Bank project cycles has made it impossible to finalize any
formal cofinancing arrangement with the EU before negotiations, the common interest in improving
primary education in Morocco's rural areas makes it highly likely that the proposed project would
benefit from future support from the European Union.
C. Economic Analysis
The mix of educational inputs
4.07   If evenly distributed over a six-year period, the total annual cost of the project would
average US$16 million, which represents roughly 3% of the total MEN current expenditures
allocated to basic education, 3 % of the total recurrent MEN budget, and 13% of today's total
investment MEN budget. As the benefits of investing in basic education are only lightly linked to
labor market outcomes and are at the same time heavily webbed with externalities, using wages to
assess the benefits of this investment would not be meaningful, and consequently, a cost-benefit
analysis would not shed much light on the economic justification of the project. Indeed, evidence
from various countries suggests that --especially for girls in rural areas-- the social benefits alone
offset the costs of basic education (World Bank 1992). Therefore, the combination of educational
inputs included in the proposed project was selected on the grounds that (i) it promotes the project's
goal of increasing access and retention rates, particularly for girls, while (ii) also improving the
quality of primary education, and (iii) being cost-effective (see Annex 6).
4.08   Evidence regarding the determinants of demand for primary education was drawn from
several surveys including the 1990-91 LSMS, a 1992 survey of rural parents, and a participatory
appraisal of women's needs, concerns, and views conducted in 1994. The design of the project was
also influenced by the forecasts presented in the Education PAS, in particular the simulation of
alternative scenarios for achieving universal primary education and their budgetary implications.
These various studies and analyses showed that a significant increase in primary school enrollments
would not be financially feasible unless the MEN adopted extensive use of the multigrade classroom
model. International experience has shown that this model is not only more cost-effective than the
traditional, separate-grade model used in Moroccan satellite schools, but that it can also improve
learning outcomes, as long as adequate teaching methods and materials are available. In the
Moroccan case a properly organized multigrade teaching system in rural areas --while initially
increasing teaching kit and training needs-- would eventually lead to savings, both in school
construction and teaching requirements. Annual savings that could be generated from the adoption
of multigrade classrooms are estimated to be in the order of US$6 million.
4.09   On the demand side, studies have failed to confirm certain factors conventionally thought to
affect girls' schooling rates, such as single-sex schools and female teachers. Factors that did prove
significant were ranked for their effect on primary school access and retention rates, gender gap-
reduction, education quality, and cost-effectiveness. Since each factor generally has a combined and
cumulative effect on several objectives, factors were artificially separated out for the purpose of
analysis. The design of the project also takes into account the complementarity of its interventions
with those of its sister projects within the SPP/BAJ --a feature not fully captured by cost-
effectiveness analysis. For instance, the distribution of free textbooks to girls would miss its target
if action were not also taken to bring schools closer to home, which implies the need for more
schools (to be built under the proposed education SPP project) and for better and safer feeder roads
to walk to the school (to be supplied under the employment promotion SPP project). To quantify
the many cross-effects of these projects would require careful monitoring during project



- 16 -
implementation, which would be facilitated by the sector and project indicators MEN is required to
track throughout the life of the project.
4.10   Although they constitute together a complete and cohesive package, all single activities
proposed under the project are cost-effective by international standards. Even a simple computation
of direct effects (which would clearly underestimate the overall impact of the package) provides a
solid justification for the proposed education project (Annex 6, Table 3). Most of the individual
actions (such as the building of latrines) were analyzed in terms of simple presence versus absence.
Other factors were analyzed in terms of relative cost and potential benefit. Awareness campaigns
for example cost less than US$3 per new "client"-- lower than any other type of intervention.
School canteens provide an example of an effective intervention.  They could be replaced by
targeted food distribution to poor families, or by simple income transfers, for instance; however,
unlike these alternative solutions, the benefits of a school canteen program accrue directly to the
target population--school children. The children, moreover, improve their school attendance rate
along with their caloric intake--a benefit not guaranteed under any direct transfer scheme, no matter
how well targeted.
Recurrent costs
4.11   Incremental recurrent costs associated with the proposed project were estimated on the basis
of projections included in the Education PAS (Annex 6). Two types of incremental costs were
assessed: costs accruing during the execution of the project and costs likely to accrue after the
project ends. The single most important item of the first group is the additional wage bill.
Computed by comparing teaching and nonteaching staff requirements in the base scenario (status
quo) and in the project scenario (high case), this additional wage bill would amount to about
US$32 million annually by the end of the project. Other additional costs to be borne during the
project's life include maintenance for facilities, equipment, and cars, which would total
US$0.9 million annually. The main incremental costs following the project's completion would
come from the Government's commitment to assume the total cost of the school canteen program
and the complete withdrawal of the World Food Program (US$21.8 million). Other costs likely to
need a budget allocation after project's completion (textbook distribution, innovative fund, and
teacher in-service training) would not exceed US$0.5 million per year.  All recurrent costs
associated with the project (both during and after) would amount to less than US$60 million a year,
or 3% of the MEN's recurrent budget in 2000-01.
Cost recovery and sustainability
4.12   The extent to which such an additional burden could be sustained in future would depend on
many factors exogenous to the sector (economic growth rate, total national budget). Within the
primary education subsector, moreover, recovery measures are not envisaged for the near future,
given the severity of the enrollment situation and evidence that direct costs are a real obstacle to
girls' enrollment in rural schools. The Education PAS does not recommend that user charges be
introduced and enforced before the post-primary level. To promote a more rational use of available
resources, the Education PAS has further recommended a package of measures for improving the
MEN staff management system (in such areas as teacher training, recruitment, and assignment).
These measures would allow Morocco to set more reasonable student:teacher ratios at the upper-
primary and secondary levels, which would generate substantial savings over the medium term.
These savings could then be added to those gained from instituting multigrade schools would
substantially increase Morocco's available education budget.



- 17 -
4.13   Looking beyond the proposed project, cost-recovery and efficiency measures would go far
toward reaching the goal of universal primary education. But, to reach this goal, as evidenced by
the recent public expenditure review undertaken by the Bank (World Bank 1994c), Morocco would
still have to increase its public spending on primary education by an annual rate of about 5 % for the
next 6 years. That primary education is a genuine public good and one of the core activities for
which the Moroccan state has full responsibilities should help to ensure this effort's sustainability.
Notwithstanding macroeconomic conditions, achieving this end will entail both inter- and intra-
sectoral reallocations. Donors (especially the European Union after signature of the Free Trade
Agreement) are also well aware of Morocco's lagging performance in the education sector and
might well increase their contributions to help the country mount a sincere effort to overcome it.
D. Management and Implementation
Program implementation
4.14   The national Social Development Strategy (SDS) and the SPP/BAJ will be monitored by a
steering committee made up of all concerned ministers. Such a committee, the Comite de Suivi de
la Strategie Sociale (CSSS), already exists and is assisted by a Secretariat, which is housed in the
Ministry of Population's Department of Planning, and is already in place and was actively involved
in project and program  preparation [para. 6.01c].  The Secretariat will be responsible for
monitoring the objectives of the SPP/BAJ and will also be the liaison between technical ministries,
the CSSS, and the donor community (Annex 2). In parallel, an Observatory for Monitoring Living
Conditions will be created to monitor social conditions in the Kingdom. The formal establishment,
within the Ministry of Population, of the Observatory would be a condition of Board presentation
[para. 6.04a].
4.15   To simplify implementation and avoid the creation of an overall project implementation and
coordination unit, program activities will be implemented under three distinct projects and financed
by three distinct loans. The first loan, for the proposed Basic Education Project comprises activities
to be implemented by the Ministries of Education, Interior, (construction of primary school
facilities, financed through the VAT and implemented by the communities), and Employment and
Social Affairs. The second loan (for the Basic Health Project) comprises the activities to be
implemented by the Ministry of Public Health. The third loan (for the Coordination and Monitoring
of Social Programs, and Employment Promotion   Project) comprises the activities to be
implemented by the Ministries of Interior (Promotion Nationale) and Population.
4.16   The multiple activities included under the SPP/BAJ will require careful programming and
coordination of inputs from the various implementation agencies at the central, provincial and
community levels. The individual impact of the three projects, too, could only be measured if
implementation were sufficiently well-coordinated for each to build on the efforts of the others. To
ensure that SPP/BAJ activities were implemented in a coordinated manner, both at the grass-roots
level and in the central ministries, the Government has committed itself to the setting up of a
Program Management Information System (PMIS) by the Secretariat, and to the implementation of
the PMIS by the line ministries and the PN. It is expected that the PMIS would be fully operational
by December 31, 1997. The data input would be performed by the implementation staff at the
provincial level and at the departmental and division levels in the ministries.



- 18 -
Project Implementation
4.17   Project activities will be implemented at three levels: (i) at the central level, by the
concerned line ministries' departments; (ii) at the provincial level, by representatives appointed by
the central ministries; and (iii) at the local level, by the communities themselves. Due to several
factors, including lack of professional implementation staff, cumbersome administrative procedures,
and lack of expertise in project management, Bank projects in Morocco have moved slowly. But the
MEN has reorganized its project implementation division and changed several key staff --changes
that have already improved the implementation of ongoing projects and should meet implementation
needs of the central ministry. To address the multiplicity of implementation layers and departments,
furthermore, the MEN will appoint a project education coordinator, and the MEAS will appoint a
project literacy coordinator by December 31, 1996 [para. 6.03c(i)] to coordinate the implementation
of all activities included under the proposed project, including the construction of education facilities
under the Ministry of Interior. Many generic issues--such as cumbersome administrative delays
caused by the requirement that all documents pertaining to contracts and payments be reviewed in
advance--still remain. An ongoing study undertaken under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance (Inspection Generale) on reasons for delays in the payment of suppliers should help to
address this particular problem [para. 6.01b]. The Govermnent will ensure that an action plan to
improve the management of the proposed project, based on the recommendations of this study be
presented to the Bank for discussions before March 31, 1997, and that implementation be launched
no later than October 31, 1997 [para. 6.03c(ii)]. An implementation volume has been prepared,
which describes in detail the contents and timing of each activity, as well as the resources needed.
4.18   Activities implemented centrally.
(a)    Activities to be implemented by the MEN  include national school mapping,
educational planning, materials, and studies; the procurement of textbooks, educational
materials, and some furniture. The construction of primary school facilities has been
transferred to the communities and as such is no longer the responsibility of the MEN but
of the Ministry of Interior. As reorganized, the MEN now has an implementation division
capable of administering the proposed project under the authority of the project coordinator.
Nevertheless, the MEN would need to implement a PMIS to manage the system. The MEN
would also ensure that a small technical committee be formed to help the coordinator follow
up the various activities undertaken.   The committee would be composed of (i)
representatives of the concerned departments in the MEN, and (ii) representatives from
other donors involved in the project (French Cooperation, UNDP, and other to come). The
committee would meet twice a year and as needed.
(b)    With regard to the implementation of the project's proposed literacy activities, the
Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs has just created a department of literacy, which
will implement literacy activities in cooperation with the MEN and other ministries
concerned. The MEAS project coordinator, who will be appointed from this department,
will also be responsible for liaising with the Promotion Nationale for the organization of
literacy experiments on the sites selected under the Employment Promotion and Poverty
Monitoring Project of the SPP/BAJ Program.
4.19   Activities implemented by provincial representatives.  The procurement of school
furniture will be delegated by the central ministry to its provincial representatives, who will also
supervise and assist communities in the construction of primary school facilities.  Morocco's
provinces have all of the relevant implementation mechanisms and procedures in place, and



- 19 -
sufficient numbers of qualified staff are available to provide the relevant services. By December 31,
1996, a SPP/BAJ focal point would be appointed in each province to oversee and monitor the
implementation of all of the SPP/BAJ activities delegated by the various line ministries [para.
6. 03c(i)].
4.20   Activities implemented by the communities. Communities will carry out various small-
scale investments (by building, for instance, classrooms, latrines, canteens, water fountains, dirt
roads, etc.). The communities will prepare a yearly budget, part of which would be financed
through proceeds from the VAT. A school facility would be included in the budget only if it had
first been approved by the School Location Planning division of the central ministry.  Most
Moroccan communities already have the required managerial know-how to implement the projects
presently included in their budgets. Whenever a community does not have the required expertise,
governors would provide the required technical assistance (architects, engineers, site supervisors,
accountants, etc.).
4.21   Program   Management  Information  System   (PMIS).  The  responsibilities  for
administering the PMIS would be divided as follows:
(a) Provincial level. Each SPP/BAJ provincial focal point would ensure that the PMIS data
and information was kept up to date. The various provincial delegates would provide the
provincial SPP/BAJ focal point with all pertinent information about project activities. The
provincial focal point would ensure that the data was entered into the system and would
--with the assistance of this tool-- prepare the annual provincial implementation program.
The PMIS would generate implementation progress reports and reports on various
indicators and financial benchmarks. The PMIS would be designed on a geographical
basis, and in such a manner as to allow for the gradual expansion of the system to include
other data required by the Governor and other users.
(b) Ministry departmental or divisional level.  Each department involved with the
SPP/BAJ would be responsible for managing the implementation of their respective project
activities using the PMIS. To that end, each concerned department would appoint a staff-
member to manage the PMIS.  Several different departments and divisions within the
Ministries of Education and of Employment and Social Affairs would be responsible for
project activities under a ministry-appointed SPP/BAJ coordinator. These two ministry-
level coordinators would oversee and coordinate the work of the departmental and divisional
SPP/BAJ coordinators and would be expected to ensure the proper use of the PMIS.
Procurement
4.22   All goods and services to be financed by the loan would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. For ICB procedures, the Government would use the Bank standard biddi-ig
documents, available in French at the time of project negotiations (Marches de Travaux--Taille
Moyenne and Marches de Fournitures). Procurement of goods and services would be undertaken
by the concerned line ministries at the central level, by provincial representatives delegated by the
line ministries, and by the communities themselves. NCB procedures at these three levels have been
reviewed by the Bank.  The procedures agreed upon are in conformity with general Bank
procurement guidelines with respect to economy, efficiency, equal opportunity to all eligible
bidders, development of local industry, and transparency (Table 4.3 below summarizes the
procurement arrangements for goods and services).



- 20 -
Table 4.3. Procurement arrangements
(total including contingencies in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB      NCB       Other    NBF       Total
Construction                          35.5                         35.5
(18.1)                      (18.1)
Equipment                  20.4       12.2       8.2      0.8      41.6
(14.0)     (4.0)     (4.4)             (22.4)
Food for school cantines                         13.6              13.6
(11.5)            (11.5)
Technical assistance                              1.5     0.7      2.12
(1.2)      -      (1.2)
Training                                          1.0               1.0
(0.8)             (0.8)
Operating costs                                           3.8       3.8
Total financed costs       20.4       47.8      24.3      5.3      97.7
Total IBRD financing      (14.0)    (22.1)    (17.9)        -     (54.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the loan
4.23   Civil works.  The proposed project would include the construction and rehabilitation of
over 2,000 facilities (classrooms, school latrines, school canteens, teacher housing and water
fountains). Works contracts would be of small value (from US$8,000 to US$100,000 equivalent
per facility), and would be distributed over a large rural area. As demonstrated under previous and
ongoing loans, such contracts do not normally attract foreign firms.  The communities are
responsible for the financing and implementation of education facilities, and as a result, the
packaging of contracts is unlikely. Communities are required to follow NCB procedures. Civil
works contracts of less than US$20.000, up to an aggregate of US$500.000 equivalent, for the
remodeling of small facilities in remote areas may be carried out by force account with the Bank's
prior approval.
4.24   Goods
(a) Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost more than US$500,000
equivalent each would be procured through ICB (US$20.4 million), with the exception of furniture,
which could be procured through NCB. Such furniture, manufactured by local suppliers, is of
excellent quality, below international prices, and delivery and supply would be appropriate for this
project.
(b) Contracts for goods costing US$100,000-500,000 equivalent would be procured through
NCB (US$12.2 million).
(c) Contracts for goods that the Bank agrees to be of proprietary nature (such as computer
software, books, and reference materials) could be awarded through direct contracting after
negotiations with proprietors or publishers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
(US$4.1 million). A contract with a UN agency locally represented would be signed to manage food
for school activities (US$13.6 million)



- 21 -
(d) Contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each could be awarded
through shopping procedures on the basis of three price quotations from suppliers (US$4.1 million).
4.25   Consultant services. (US$2.5 million) Consultants financed under the project would be
selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for consultants. Consultant services would consist
of foreign or local specialized services to conduct specific studies or to offer short-term advice. The
project would also finance study tours abroad, some short-term overseas training, and local
seminars. The procedures under which such services are engaged are well-known and efficient.
(Annex 8 summarizes the technical assistance, training, and seminars required). The MEN is
expected to subcontract with the local UNDP office --which has a long-standing experience of and
good records in running technical assistance--  entrusting this agency to manage those services.
Terms of reference are being prepared to this end.
4.26   Contracts and contract review
(a)    Items to be disbursed on the basis of proof of services would be subject to Bank
review as described in Annex 7.
(b)    Works.  Contracts exceeding US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to prior
Bank review. Contracts below US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to ex-post Bank
review.
(c)    Goods. To ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, procurement
documentation for all contracts for goods to be awarded through ICB, estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$500,000 or more would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Contracts below US$500,000 in value would be subject to ex post review by Bank
missions.
(d)    Consultant services and training. Procurement documentation for all contracts
for consulting firms, estimated to exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Procurement documentation for all contracts for the employment
of individuals or single source selection of firms estimated to exceed the equivalent of
US$50,000 would also be subject to prior review by the Bank. Procurement documentation
for all contracts for consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and
US$50,000 for all contracts for the employment of individuals or single source selection of
firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 would be limited to terms of
references only.
(e) Contracts and financial data related to activities subject to lump sum disbursement
procedures will not be subject to post review but will be subject to technical audit (para.
4.30).
4.27   Disbursement. The project would be implemented over a period of 5 years. Including a
12-month disbursement lag, the closing date would be December 31, 2003. The loan would be
disbursed according to the categories and schedule shown in Tables 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6.



- 22 -
Table 4.4. Disbursement by category
Category                                      Schedule
Category I
Civil Works    (a) lump-sum for items listed in table 4.5;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for items
not listed.
Category 2
Equipment      100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures.
Category 3
Training      lump-sum for item listed in table 4.5; 100% for items not listed.
Category 4
Consultants    100%
Services
Table 4.5. Disbursement by lump sum:
Lump sum disbursement amounts by activities (DH).
Categorv l(a): Civil works
Activities              Lump sum disbursement
Classrooms and satellite schools           200,000
Fence to school                            100,000
Teachers quarters                          150,000
Latrines                                   30,000
School water wells                         50,000
Improvement to  premises  for              150,000
literacy programs
Category 3(a): Seminars
Activities              Lump Sum disbursement
Seminars, sensitization campaigns            50,000
and educative innovation projects



- 23 -
Table 4.6. Proposed disbursement schedule
(US$ million)
Disbursement Plan                                  Project Year
1           2            3            4            5           6
Annual         2.0         10.0         13.0         13.0         10.0        6.0
Cumulative     2.0         12.0         25.0         38.0         48.0        54.0
4.28   Documentation.  In accordance with regular Government procedures, the required
supporting documents would be retained by the implementing agencies for at least one year after the
Bank received the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.  This
documentation would be made available for review by auditors and visiting staff upon request.
Documentation for contracts subject to lump sum disbursement would consist of a "proof of
services". This is a certificate established by the borrower, confirming that the specific activity has
been implemented in accordance with agreed standards and criteria. (Annex 7). The content and
procedure to establish a proof of service were presented in a format agreed upon during negotiations
[para. 6.03c(iii)]. Both the disbursement by lump sum and the documentation by proof of services
are innovative, result-oriented methods aiming at simplifying procedures and accelerating project
disbursement, while giving more initiative to the beneficiaries (especially communities); they concur
with the directions set in the new Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(para. 3.15. For expenditures under contracts above the prior review thresholds, full documentation
would be required. All other expenditures would be disbursed based on Statement of Expenditures
(SOE).
4.29   Special account. To reduce the number of claims submitted to the Bank, the Government
may establish, maintain, and operate --under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank--a Special
Account in which the Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$4.0 million. This special
account would be located in the General Treasury of the Ministry of Finance and would be
replenished every month, or whenever the undisbursed balance of the account would fall below an
amount equal to one third or less of the amount of the initial deposit, whichever came first.
4.30   Accounts and audits. Each department responsible for the implementation of the project in
the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs would maintain
separate accounts for all project activities in conformance with international accounting practices.
Project accounts would be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (World Bank, March 1982). Activities subject to
reimbursement on the basis of proof of services would be audited in accordance with OD 10.60,
para. 48.  For technical audits,  both reimbursement claims using SOEs and applications for
replenishment of special expenditures from the Special Account would be required to be certified by
an independent expert rather than by an auditor. The Bank would be provided with an audit report
of such scope and detail as the Bank might reasonably request (including a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursement against a certified statement of expenditures and a certified statement of
proof of service) within the six months following the end of each fiscal year.



- 24 -
Supervision, monitorin2. and evaluation
4.31   Status of project preparation.   A project implementation volume has been prepared,
which will be used as a reference during the project's execution. The Secretariat has de facto taken
over the responsibility for coordinating the preparation of the three projects. The Secretariat has
convened a number of meetings with other concerned ministries, and has organized a workshop on
monitoring the implementation of the SDS. Bids would be launched as soon as the corresponding
budgets were available. The construction of primary school facilities, now the responsibility of
local communities, would start as soon as the budgets of the communities (based on value-added tax
revenues) were approved by the Ministry of Interior. But because of budgetary planning, payment,
and disbursement lags, during the first year of implementation the loan would disburse only the
amount corresponding to the initial deposit to the Special Account.
4.32   Project implementation  review.   Each  line ministry  would  prepare  an annual
implementation progress report of a scope and in the detail agreed upon by the Government and the
Bank. These reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than September 30, beginning in
1997 and reviewed jointly [para. 6.03d(ii)]. The annual report would include (a) a review of
progress achieved in the implementation of the project based on selected monitoring indicators
agreed upon, (b) projected sector and project expenditures for the year, and (c) programs for project
activities in the selected provinces. The Secretariat would collect and review sectoral reports issued
for each of the three BAJ projects, and incorporates them in an annual program implementation
report. A mid-term project implementation review will be conducted during the third year of
implementation, no later than June 30, 1999 [para. 6.03d(i)]. This mid-term review would not
only assess the project's implementation progress in greater detail but would also assess the extent to
which project activities might need to be redirected to achieve the objectives of the program. In
particular, a plan for Government funding of the School Canteen Program would be presented at the
mid-term review, and thoroughly discussed [para. 3.07d].
4.33   Monitoring indicators. The Government has developed, in coordination with the Bank, a
list of program and project indicators by which both the process and the impact of the proposed
operations can be monitored.  The list of indicators was agreed upon before negotiations
[para. 6.02b], and a final agreement on baseline values and target values for a selected number of
indicators was reached during negotiations [para. 6.03d(iii)]. The value of these indicators would
be updated each year and incorporated in the annual implementation report submitted to the Bank
each year by the Secretariat [para. 6.04d(ii)]. The complete list of indicators is presented in
Annex 9.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01   As a critical element of the SPP/BAJ, the proposed education project would help the
Government to sustain its efforts to extend primary school coverage to the poor by targeting
children in thirteen deprived rural provinces comprising some 27% of Morocco's population. The
construction and equipment of new schools should allow the system to accommodate about
65,000 new pupils each year by the end of the project, and the rehabilitation of existing satellite
schools should permit additional enrollments of about 40,000 children. The reduction of direct and



- 25 -
indirect costs, the better mix of educational inputs, the higher quality education offered, and the
measures used to deal with various nonschool factors affecting girls' attendance should also increase
demand for primary schools and lower dropout rates for hundreds of thousands of rural children.
These benefits would also compound those derived from other SPP/BAJ projects, which would be
implemented concurrently in the same communities. Taken together, the projects would improve
access to basic services and reduce poverty over the longer run. The implementation of the PAS
would also improve efficiency at the secondary level of education, which would free up resources
for use at the primary level. Under the SPP/BAJ basic education activities would be integrated with
provision of other basic services, exposing education policymakers to cross-sectoral innovations and
establishing a service base that should broaden and strengthen the effect of poverty alleviation
policies as a whole. Finally, experiments under the literacy component should help to increase the
sustainability of skills acquisition, thanks to the linkage between learning and employment
promotion.
B. Risks
5.02   A first risk is related to the difficulty to bring structural changes in a conservative sector
and administration, where any move can have far-reaching political effects. The relatively modest
scope of the reforms being pursued, the in-depth discussion of the sector action plan to be
implemented, and the political will of the highest levels of the state apparatus will all help to relax
this constraint, but this sector will always remain sensitive to external and internal shocks.   A
second risk lies in the extent to which this new operation would succeed in enticing the rural poor,
and especially girls, into basic education.  Because the project addresses the issue of school
attendance from the demand side and takes into account the results of studies on the determinants of
demand and of participatory assessments, this risk is likely to be greatly diminished. The third risk
stems from the possible delays of implementation, especially for the decentralized activities. To
advert this risk, the Government would adopt the measures recommended by the study on fund
flows currently being completed, and a program management information system would be in place
before project launching. There is also a risk of insufficient counterpart funding, which would be
mitigated by the preparation of sectoral public expenditure three-year programs, to be jointly
reviewed each year, and by the establishment of an individualized budget line for the proposed
project. Finally, the risk associated with the weak implementation capacities of the MEAS in charge
of the literacy component would be reduced through assistance to be provided by the more
experienced MEN and thanks to the pilot nature of this component.
C. Stakeholders' Participation
5.03   Project preparation has drawn directly or indirectly on the input of final beneficiaries and
users, including the results of the Bank participatory study on rural women which has shown that
increasing attendance of girls in primary schools of the poorest douars is contingent upon
alleviating the most time-consuming domestic chores such as water and fuelwood collection (World
Bank 1995a). The design of the project itself (which would build schools with wells) and its
integration with the other projects of the SPP/BAJ Program (which would upgrade basic health
centers, feeder roads and undertake reforestation) are in line with these needs as expressed by the
intended beneficiaries. Project design has also been heavily influenced by the results of the survey
conducted by the MEN amongst 1,600 rural households of the Kingdom, which clearly identifies the
obstacles to school attendance (MEN 1993). As a result, the project addresses demand factors
upfront instead of being supply driven. At the intermediate level, the MEN has undertaken a survey
of a sample of about one thousand schools, which has help to identify the needs at the local
production level, as expressed by school heads and masters. At the provincial level, MEN staff has



- 26 -
been widely consulted by central authorities during project preparation. Stakeholders' views would
also be sought during project implementation through the beneficiary assessments to be conducted at
the initiative of the Secretariat.  Likewise, a survey has been conducted for the literacy pilot
component. This survey has included stakeholders at all levels, from the central staff of the MEAS,
to staff in the learning centers, down to a sample of about 300 beneficiaries. The assessment of the
latter on the usefulness of traditional literacy campaigns has been taken into account in forging the
concept of "post literacy"to be tested under the project.  Finally, the other two projects of the
SPP/BAJ Program have also been prepared with the participation of actual actors and potential
beneficiaries, thus ensuring that the integrated activities envisaged under the program would
coincide with real needs perceived by the targeted population, and would mobilize those in charge of
implementing the measures aimed at meeting these needs.
D. Poverty Category
5.04   The proposed project is part of the SPP Program whose entire justification and overarching
objective is poverty alleviation. All activities under the proposed project would benefit rural areas
in the thirteen poorest provinces of the country, and would be mostly targeted on girls. Therefore,
this project would be in the category "Program of targeted interventions".
E. Environmental Assessment
5.05   As a category C project, this project would not normally require an environmental
assessment study. Activities having to do with school location, construction, and design, however,
would take into account the presence or absence of adequate water supply and safety standards.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01   During preparation of the project, the following actions were taken:
(a)    The Strategie de Developpement Social was re-endorsed [para. 2.03];
(b)    The contract for the study on financial circuits was signed [para. 4.17];
(c)    The Secretariat was informally installed [para. 4.14];
6.02   Before issuing the invitation to negotiate:
(a)    The education sector SAP was officially transmitted to the Bank [para. 3. 111;
(b)    The final list of selected project indicators was transmitted to the Bank [para. 4.33];
6.03   During negotiations, agreement was reached or assurances given regarding:
(a)    Sector specific actions
(i)     Selection criteria, organization, and financing mechanisms for the School
Educative Innovation Projects [para. 3.09g];



- 27 -
(ii)    Completing an assessment of MEN personnel management procedures,
including personnel recruitment, placement, and transfers before December 31,
1997 [para. 3.12b];
(b)    Financing
(i)    Agreement with the French Government regarding the parallel financing of
part of the training for multigrade teaching [paras. 3.07c and 4.06];
(ii)    Beginning in 1997, undertaking and updating each year and thereafter a
multiyear rolling public expenditure program for the primary and secondary
education sector, and transmittal of the program to the Bank for discussion by July
31 of each year [para. 3.12a];
(iii)   Provision of counterpart funds, financing all operating costs associated
with the implementation, administration, and supervision of the project, and
establishment of individualized project lines in the budget of the MEN and of the
MEAS, starting July 1st, 1996 [para. 4.05];
(iv)   retroactive financing [para. 4.05].
(c)    Project implementation
(i)    Appointment of an SPP/BAJ education coordinator in the MEN, a
SPP/BAJ literacy coordinator in the MEAS, and a SPP/BAJ focal point in each
target province by December 31, 1996 [paras. 4.17 and 4.19];
(ii)    Presentation to the Bank of an action plan to improve procurement,
payment, and disbursements, based on the results of the study on fund flows,
before March 31, 1997, and launching implementation of the plan after discussion
with the Bank, no later than October 31, 1997 [para. 4.17];
(iii)   Procedures to establish a proof of service, and format of such a certificate
[para. 4.28].
(d)    Project review
(i)    Organization of a joint mid-term project review by June 30, 1999, and
presentation of a medium-term plan regarding the coverage, targeting, and
financing of the School Canteen Program for discussion at the midterm review
[paras. 3.07d and 4.32];
(ii)    Submission to the Bank of an annual implementation report that would
include a review of project implementation progress based on selected project
indicators, projected sector and project expenditures for the year, and programs for
the project activities in the selected provinces by September 30 of each year,
beginning in 1997 [paras. 4.32 and 4.33];
(iii)   Baseline and target values for selected project indicators [para. 4.33];



- 28 -
6.04    As conditions of Board presentation,
(a)    The Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions has been formally established
[para. 4.14]



rACD                                                                                                                          .
.0                     EnseIignemIIent Fondamental                       E~nseignement                                        '7Q
CD                    ~~~~(9 ans)                             Secondaire
CD CD                          l           ~                         Gnr1fcniu_jCU 
CD
CD~
0
Lettres                            ~
0                                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Sciences                                                 CA
CD  ____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0            o
0          ~~~Technique                                  9 ~
CD,    LA           00 ~~~~~~~~~CD
Formation
D   CD  CD  a  C                            Professionnelle                             "
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0
I-.
CD~
C,,
ON



AnnexI
Page 2 of 6
Figure 2. Evolution of Enrollment, by Level of Education
(1980181 - 1993/94)
3,000.0
2,700.0
2,400.0
2,100.0
1 ,800.0-
1 ,500.0-
o 1,200.0
900.0
600.0                                                                         l
300.0
1987/88   1988/89   1989190   1990/91   1991/92   1992193   1993/94   1994/95
t -Lower Basic -                 - - E   X
~Upper Basic    - 01Se   ___



Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
Table 1. Share of Females in Total Enrollment
by Level of Education and Milieu
(1993-94)
Rural                                Urban
Boys       Girls     % GiHs     Total      Boys       Girls     % Girls     Total
Lower Basic        762,629    367,001     32.5%   1,129,630    875,237    764,456     46.6%   1,639,693
Upper Basic         57,069     16,732     22.7%      73,801    448,664    340,634     43.2%     789,298
Secondary            6,192      1,839      22.9%      8,031    202,950    152,114     42.8%     355,064
Total              825,890    385,572      31.8%   1,211,462  1,526,851   1,257,204   45.2%   2,784,055
Source: Ministere de I'Education Nationale - Statistiques Scolaires (1993/94)



Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
Table 2. Evolution of Student/Teacher Ratio, by Education Level
(1980/81 - 1993/94)
1980/81    1985/86    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993V94
Lower Basic         37.0       27.8       26.0      25.0       24.2      27.1       27.2      27.7       28.1
Upper Basic         22.8       20.5       21.8      20.9       20.7      17.0       16.4      17.1       18.1
Secondary            19.6      18.3       16.2      13.8       13.3      14.1       11.3       13.0      13.1



Table 3: Share of the Education Budget in the Government Budget                          Annex 1
by Level (1973-1993)                                              Page 5 of 6
Education Recurrent Budget                            Education Investment Budget          Total Education Budget
Year     Basic   Secondary  Higher    Total                Basic  Secondary  Higher    Total               All Levels
1973    10.1%     11.4%      1.9%       23%                4.6%      6.0%      1.1%     11.7%               19.2%
1974     6.7%      7.1%      1.4%       15%                4.1%      6.8%      1.5%     12.4%               14.4%
1975     6.1%      6.0%      1.7%       14%                1.9%      5.7%      1.6%      9.2%               12.4%
1976     4.6%      5.7%      1.6%       12%                1.7%      4.0%      1.9%      7.6%               13.5%
1977     8.0%     11.0%      3.2%       22%                2.1%      3.7%      1.2%      7.0%               14.0%
1978     8.6%     11.5%      3.4%       24%                3.3%      5.6%      0.4%      9.3%               17.6%
1979     8.5%     11.5%      4.8%       25%                1.9%      6.2%      1.6%      9.6%               18.6%
1980     8.2%     10.8%      4.3%       23%                2.8%      5.9%      1.3%      9.9%               18.5%
1981     9.2%     11.8%      4.9%       26%                3.9%      6.5%      2.0%     12.4%               20.6%
1982     9.2%     11.9%      4.8%       26%                3.0%      5.5%      2.4%     10.9%               18.7%
1983    10.3%     12.9%      5.3%       29%                3.8%      7.6%      2.9%     14.4%               22.6%
1984    10.8%     14.1%      5.1%       30%                4.1%      6.7%      2.0%     12.9%               23.9%
1985    10.1%     13.6%      4.9%       29%                3.8%      6.9%      2.5%     13.2%               22.9%
1986    10.4%     13.9%      5.3%       30%                4.4%      6.1%      3.1%     13.6%               21.9%
1987    10.2%     13.7%      5.1%       29%                3.9%      5.7%      3.0%     12.6%               21.5%
1988    10.2%     13.6%      5.3%       29%                4.6%      5.5%      4.9%     15.0%               23.5%
1989    11.5%     15.2%      5.1%       32%                3.7%      4.9%      1.8%     10.5%               24.9%
1990    11.7%     16.4%      5.4%       34%                1.2%      2.7%      2.4%      6.4%               24.1%
1991    11.9%     15.3%      5.3%       33%                1.6%      5.4%      3.4%     10.4%               26.3%
1992    11.9%     14.9%      5.2%       32%                2.2%      6.1%      3.7%     11.9%               26.7%
1993    11.2%     14.1%      4.9%       30%                1.7%      5.7%      3.0%     10.4%               25.0%
Source: World Bank, 1994. Royaume du Maroc: Depenses publiques et perspectives



Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
Table 4. Budget Allocation for Education (1995)
Basic & Secondary              Higher Education                   Total
million DHS    %              million DHS    %               million DHS    %
Operating Budget                      12,012       92.3%              2,273      85.0%              14,285      91.1%
Personnel                           11,245       86.4%              1,350      50.5%              12,595      80.3%
Equipment & Others                     767        5.9%                923      34.5%               1,690      10.8%
Investment Budget                      1,000        7.7%                400      15.0%               1,400       8.9%
Total                                 13,012      100.0%              2,673      100.0%             15,685     100.0%
Source: Loi de finance (1995)



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
SPP/BAJ: ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Table 1. Ministry-Level Responsibilities for the Three SPP Projects
MEN         MSP         MEAS           Ml             MP
(1) Primary                ~~~~~(3) Primary
I. BASIC EDUCATION   (1) Primary              (2) Literacy    School
Construction**
II. BASIC HEALTH                   (4 eastc
III. COORDINATION                                                         (6) Statistical
AND MONITORING                                                             Monitorng
OF SOCIAL                                                 (5) Employment  (7) Program
PROGRAMS, AND                                                Promotion    Coordination
LABOR PROMOTION I_(Secrftanat)
MEN: Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
MSP: Ministere de la Sante Publique (Ministry of Public Health)
MEAS: Ministere de I'Emploi et des Affaires Sociales (Ministry of Labor and of Social Affairs)
Ml: Ministere de l'lnterieur (Ministry of the Interior)
MP: Ministere de la Population (Ministry of Population)
* school construction not included
** supervised by local collectivities



Table 2. SPP/BAJ Organizational Chart
Secre'tariat
Basic Education                                                    Basic Health              Employment Promotion and
Project                                                            Project                   Poverty Monitoring Project
S  EMEN    | N                            MEAS   l            l | MSP    ll MP    ll M
sFo Technical                                                             l                     l
Coriator       Committee    Coordinator                         Coordinator          Coordinao            Coordinato
u
co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>        eeae                             eeaeProvincial                   Dlgt          
L i~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           I                     I~~~~~Fcl on
CD



Annexl
Page 1 of 1
PROVINCES SELECTED FOR THE SPP PROGRAM
Rural    Share in     Total    Share in
population, total rural population,   total
1994    population    1994    population   Rato
Rank Province            (000)      (%)        (000)       (%)    rurallotal
Saharan provinces       1.    Ouarzazate              553       4.4%        695      2.7%       80%
2.    Taroudant              560       4.4%         694     2.7%       81%
3.    Tiznit                 278       2.2%         348      1.3%      80%
Wilaya of Marrakech     4.    Al Haouz                402       3.2%        435      1.7%       92%
5.    Chichaoua              280       2.2%         312      1.2%      90%
6.    El Kelaa Sraghna       551       4.4%         682      2.6%      81%
7.    Essaouira              358       2.8%         434      1.7%      82%
8.    Safi                   447       3.5%         823      3.2%      54%
Wilaya Grand Casablanca 9.    Azilal                  393       3.1%        455      1.7%       8M%
Wilaya of Tetouan       10.   Chefchaouen             396       3.1%        439      1.7%       90%
11.   Sidi Kacem             471       3.7%        646      2.5%       73%
Wilaya of Fes           12.   Al Hoceima              270       2.1%        383      1.5%       70%
13.   Taza                   502       4.0%        708      2.7%       71%
Total, selected provinces                           5,461     43.1%        7,054    27.1%       77%
Total Morocco                                      12,659    100.0%       26.074   100.0%       49%
Source: Ministere de l'Incitation de l'Economie - Direction de la Statistique.
R6sultats provisoires du Recensement G6neral de la Population. February 1995.
Note: Criteria for the selecton of provinces
1. Living standards indicators
1.1 Annual per capita expenditures
1.2 Urbanization rate
2. Education sector indicators
2.1 Illiteracy rate
2.2 Admission rate in first year of primary education (children aged 7)
3. Health sector indicators
3.1 Under-5 mortality rate
3.2 Population per physician
3.3 Population per paramedical staff
3.4 Population per health center



Selected Project Data                                            Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
Table 1. Rural School-Aged Population in the Selected SPP Provinces
Province                                                         Age
7                  8                 9                  10                 11                12
Total    Girls     Total    Girls    Total    Girls     Total    Girls     Total    Girls     Total    Girls
Alhoceima      7899      3870     7789      3816     7663     3755      7514     3682      7349     3601      7156     3507
Azilal         9199      4507     9294      4554     9418     4615      9550     4680      9691     4749      9766     4785
Chefchaou      9704     4755      9568     4689      9414     4613      9231     4523      9028     4424      8791     4308
Chichaoua      6897      3380     6809      3336     6709     3287      6592     3230      6465     3168      6300     3087
El Haouz      11704      5735    11554     5662    11385      5579    11186      5481    10970      5375    10690      5238
El Kelaa      15683      7684    15727     7706    15764      7724    15782      7733    15801      7743    15645      7666
Essaouira     10676      5231    10540     5165    10385      5089    10204      5000    10007      4903     9752      4778
Ouarzazate    17511      8580    17280     8467    17011      8335    16703      8185    16391      8031    15912      7797
Safi          12896     6319    12933      6337    12963      6352    12978      6359    12994      6367    12865      6304
Sidi kacem    10814     5299    10703      5244    10628      5208    10576      5182    10557      5173    10482      5136
Taroudant     17482      8566    17253     8454    16984      8322    16676      8171    16364      8019    15887      7785
Taza          16490      8080    16260     7968    15997      7839    15686      7686    15343      7518    14940      7320
Tiznit         9637     4722      9511     4660      9362     4588      9193     4505      9021     4420     8758      4291
TOTAL        156592    76728   155221    76058   153683    75306   151871    74417   149981    73491   146944    72002



Annex4
Page 2 of 5
Table 2. Enrollments in Basic Primary Education
In the Selected SPP Provinces
First year    Total enrollment Teachers
Total  Girls  Total   Girls
Alhoceima     5904  2307  25808    8509    1162
Azilal        7690  2726  34878   10580    1556
Chefchaouen   7986  3134  30774   10258    1256
Chichaoua     4768   1688  17673    5153       833
El Haouz      8779  3248  33174    9849    1323
El Kelaa     11369  4415  44877   14153    2065
Essaouira     7471   2551  27884    7663    1444
Ouarzazate   14855  5873  69609   21826    2822
Safi          7826  2708  33076    9736    1493
Sidi kacem   10722  4236  50419   16914    1919
Taroudant    13308  5160  51941   15733    2369
Taza         11444  4106  52549   16401    2311
Tiznit        6880  2779  30118    9206    1387
Total       119002 44931 502780  155981   21940



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
Table 3. Projected Core Current Budgetary Expenditures, 1995-2001
Basic Education
% incr.      % incr.      % incr.      % incr.       % incr.      % incr.      % incr.
from        from          from         from         from          from         from
prev.        prev.        prev.        prev.         prev.        prev.        prev.
93/94 94-95  year 95-96  year 96-97  year 97-98   year 98-99   year 99-00  year 00-01   year
Wages      3835 4101   7    4298   5    4479   4    4654   4    4800   3    4923   3    5031   2
Non-wage
exp.        172  200   16      229  15      432  89       504   17     530   5      554   5       579   5
Total      4007 4301   7    4527   5    4911   8         5158   5    5330   3    5477   3    5610   2



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
Table 4 Douars without school. by number of inhabitants
Provinces       Less than 150   150-199   200-249   250-299  300 and  Total
over
AlHoceima        14            7          10                   15        54
Azilal          68             29         27         34        69        227
Chefchaouan     94             50         32         26        26        228
Chichaoua       72             27         19         17        32        167
El Haouz        45             25         17         6         2         95
El Kalaa        21             7          11         0         0         39
Essaouira        1              1         0          3         27        32
Ouarzazate      43             21         22         10        3         99
Saf             8              6          2          4         10        30
Sidi Kacem      3              4          2          0         0         9
Taroudante      227            44         20         1         4         296
Taza            62             2          6          6         2         78
Tiznit          124             10        8          1         2         145
Total           782            233        176        116       192       1499



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Table 5 Classroom Requirements in Rural Areas (2000-2001)
Population
in age of                                           Available
Province       schooling      Nbr. of classes       Nbr. of        classrooms*        Gap**
Aged 7-12     (24 students per     classrooms
in 2000 - 2001       class)            (1,5)                            _
93-94   94-95   93-94   94-95
Al Hoceima     43 112          1 796              1 198            891      918      307     280
Azizal         52 172          2 174              1 449             1196    1222    253      227
Chefchaouen    54 200          2 258              1 506            912      944      594     562
El Kelaa       87 012          3 626              2 417             1578    1638    839      779
Essaouira      56 216          2 342              1 562            883      1001    679      561
Chichaoua      37 552          1 565              1 043            544      619      499     424
Al Haouz       63 635          2 651              1 768            854      918      914     850
Ouarzazate     100 973         4 207              2 805             1865    1933    940      872
Safi           71 939          2 997              1 998             1082    1114    916      884
Sidi Kacem     60 688          2 529              1 686             1331    1351    355      335
Taroudant      98 001          4 083              2 722             1697    1826    1025    896
Taza           89986           3 749              2 500             1550    1586    950      914
Tiznit         56 380          2 349              1 566             1106    1170    460      396
Total          871 866         36 326             24 220            15 489  16 240  8 731    7 980
- Used classrooms + closed classrooms in good condition.
** Theoretical gap on the basis of I classroom per 24 students and a rotation ratio of 1,5.



Anne,x 5
Page 1 of I
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(USS Million)
I. EDUCATION
IA          IB       IC          ID         IE         IF
Access,  Girls School            Litercy   Support  Follow-Up
Retention  Attendance  Quality     Rate      MEPS  Managwment  Total
Investment Costs
WORKS
New Construction                                  12.8          -       2.2           -        -           -      15.0
Extension                                         10.3          -         -           -        -           -      10.3
Development/Rehabilitation                           -        3.1         -         0.2        -           -       3.3
Subtotal                                            23.1        3.1        2.2        0.2        -            -     28.6
EQUIPMENT
Machinery,Tools                                      -          -       1.0           -        -           -       1.0
Vehicules                                            -                  0.6         0.2      0.1          0.1      1.1
Data Processing                                      -          -         -           -      0.2         0.3       0.5
Manuals, Supplies, Furniture                       0.8       10.5       0.1           -        -                  11.5
Teaching materials                                 5.3          -      11.8         0.7        -           -      17.8
School Canteens                                    1.5          -         -           -        -           -       1.5
Food for Canteens                                 11.4          -         -           -        -           -      11.4
Subtotal                                            19.1       10.5       13.5        0.9      0.3          0.4     44.8
EXPERTISE
Studies                                            0.1          -       0.0           -        -                   0.1
Foreign Consultants                                0.7        0.0       0.1         0.2      0.5           -       1.5
Local Consultants                                  0.0        0.0       0.1         0.3      0.2           -       0.7
Subtotal                                             0.9        0.0        0.2        0.6      0.8            -      2.4
TRAINING
Local                                              0.0        0.4       0.0         0.3      0.1           -       0.9
Abroad                                             0.0          -         -         0.3        -            -      0.3
Seminars                                             -          -         -         0.2        -           -       0.2
Innovation Fund                                     -                   1.0           -        -           -       1.0
Subtotal                                             0.1        0.4        1.0        0.7      0.1            -      2.4
Total Investment Costs                                43.2        14.1      16.9        2.4       1.2         0.4     78.1
Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs                                        -          -        0.6        0.5      0.1          0.2      1.5
Total Recurrent Costs                                    -          -        0.6        0.5       0.1         0.2      1.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   43.2       14.1      17.6         2.9      1.4          0.6     79.7
Physical Contingencies                               4.2        1.4        1.6        0.2      0.1          0.1      7.6
Price Contingencies                                  5.4        1.9        2.4        0.5      0.1          0.1     10.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    52.8       17.4      21.6         3.7      1.6          0.7     97.7
Taxes                                                6.1        3.2        4.0        0.4      0.1          0.1     13.9
Foreign Exchange                                    24.9        5.4        6.3        1.2      0.9          0.4     39.0
\a Including information and awareness campaigns



Page I of 7
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS DATA
I      ALTERNATIVES, COSTS AND BENEFICIARIES
1.     The essence of the economic analysis conducted for the project consists in (i) making sure
that the activities envisaged address both incentives and obstacles to schooling, and (ii) assessing the
degree of cost-effectiveness of each activity. Distance to school has a very significant and strong
impact on girls' probability of access to primary school (see table I). So far, MEN's strategy has been
to implant "Satellite (incomplete) Schools", offering only the first grades of primary education, in
villages with a limited number of school-age children, the rationale being that older children would be
able and willing to walk to the more distant complete "Mother School". The Bank has suggested an
alternative strategy consisting in the implantation of small complete schools (with two classrooms),
using extensively multigrade teaching. While this option responds to the need to have schools closer
from the communities, it has three additional advantages: (a) they offer the complete primary cycle,
which influences positively the probability of access for boys; (b) they are less costly than the
traditional single grade teaching, essentially because of a higher pupil/teacher ratio; and (c) multigrade
teaching, if properly organized with specifically trained teachers and the relevant teaching materials,
is as effective as single grade teaching (see box). This strategy, which has been agreed upon by the
Government during the dialogue leading to the project preparation, will be used extensively in the
project and is estimated to generate savings of approximately $6.5 million per year, at the end of the
project period.
2.     A large number of factors are generally considered as potentially influencing access to and
retention in primary education. The conclusions of a study carried out in 1993 (MEN, 1993) on the
determinants of schooling in rural areas in Morocco have been systematically used to screen potential
factors and focus on those having the stronger influence on both access and retention (tables I and 2).
Female teachers and single-sex schools, which are more costly than coeducational schools, are not
related to higher access and retention of girls and have not been taken into consideration. The project
is rather focusing on schooling campaigns, which have strong impact on access and retention of girls,
canteens, equipped and complete schools. While schooling campaigns are very cost-effective, they
are just a starting point and cannot be used in isolation: first, schools have to be closer to girls (see
para above); then, depending upon facilities available in existing schools, canteens, water and latrines,
and/or a complete cycle may have to be offered in schools characterized by low female enrollments.
Some of these factors are more cost-effective than others, but in each specific school, it is their mix, in
relation to the local situation, which is important.  Adult literacy campaigns are taking into
consideration the impact of mothers' literacy on girls schooling, while the modernization of Koranic
preschool would partially relieve girls from the task of taking care of young children, which often
prevents them from going to school.
3.     The project strategy for raising the quality of primary education is inspired by both research
results at the international level, since there is no achievement study available on primary education
in Morocco, and a survey on inputs available in rural primary schools carried out during project
See for example M. Lockheed and A. Verspoor, 1990. "Improving the Quality of Primary Education in
Developing Countries: A Review of Policy Options". New York, Oxford University Press



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
preparation. It focuses on kits of teaching materials, teachers guides, classroom furniture (where it is
missing), remedial teaching for low-achievers, school heads in-service training, first-aid kits and a
modest component of teachers housing to boost their motivation. The absence of an achievement
study prevents us from presenting a cost-effectiveness analysis of this sub-component.
4.     The Basic Health Project and the Employment Promotion and Poverty Monitoring Project of
the SPP/BAJ Program will contribute to improving health conditions and to developing local
infrastructure in areas of priority intervention and will therefore have an impact on pupils absenteeism
and school accessibility and thus reinforce the impact of the proposed Basic Education Project.
Finally, the implementation of the proposed project in rural Morocco will generate the extemalities
associated with basic education as shown by international evidence, such as decreased fertility,
reduced maternal and child mortality, improved health, etc...
Cost-effectiveness of Multigrade schools
There are two main policy options to deal with the issue of extending school services to sparsely populated
areas:
. using nucleus and satellite schools;
. using multigrade teaching.
Comparison of the cost of both options
The unit cost in rural areas for the nucleus/satellite system is currently 2862 DH, with an average
student to teacher (STR) ratio of 15. By grouping each two levels in multigrade classes, it is virtually
possible to double the STR. Due to physical and organizational constraints (usually insufficient classroom
size and teacher's reluctance to handle very large groups of students) the more conservative assumption of
reaching an STR of 20 is selected. Under this assumption, and in spite of the additional cost inherent to the
teaching method (estimated to 40 US$ per student) the unit cost is reduced to 2136 DH, which represents a
net saving of 25 percent over the current situation.
The effectiveness of each option
The effectiveness of each option is measured by its effect on attendance and educational
achievement. There is strong statistical and field evidence that multigrade teaching has not reduced
retention in the schools that have been experiencing it. Moreover, it promotes access by allowing (i) the
extension of the number of complete schools, which has been demonstrated to increases boys' attendance
by 6 percent, and (ii) bringing schools closer to families, which promotes girls' attendance by as much as
76 percent.
As for educational achievement, although multigrade teaching has been introduced and piloted in
Morocco for several years its impact on achievement has not yet been thoroughly assessed. However,
where in the world it has been implemented properly, multigrade teaching has been shown to stimulate
learning and to increase achievement in specific subject areas.
Conclusion
Under the assumption, supported by international evidence, that multigrade teaching does not
impede learning, it emerges as a better alternative to the currently extensively used nucleus/satellite option.
In fact, while it promotes access for both girls and boys, it also saves 25 percent on unit costs.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
Table 1: Factors contributing to the probability of admission of children into primary schools
Factors           Girls              Girls              Boys               Boys                Cost
Increase in       Significance       Increase in        Significance       per pupil
probability of                       probability of                         per year
access                               access                                 (Dirhams)
Schooling         + 15%                                      -             not significant      3.7
Campaigns
Closer School    + 73%                                   + 6%                                  481
Complete           + 12%                                positive but        significance       480 to 507
Canteen                                                 limited             depend upon
model
Equipped          + 11%                    **-                             not significant   92 to 102
School
Complete               -             not significant   + 7%                      **           481
School
Literate mother  + 22%                                       -             not significant          (1)
I child or more   - 16% (I child)                            -             not significant
under 6 years      - 21% (more
than I child)          ***
Table 2: Factors contributing to the retention of children into primary schools
Factors    Girls      Girls       Girls      Girls       Boys       Boys       Boys        Boys       Cost
Dropout    Signific.    Schooling   Signific.    Dropout    Signif.  Schooling   Signific.   per pupil
Probab.               Duration               Probab.                Duration               per year
_______     _______    _______    _______    _______                ~~~ ~~(Dirhams)
Schooling      -      not        increased                          not            -       not        3.7
Campaign p   _ _   signific.    duration  l             _           signific.              signific.
Closer         -      not            -       not                    not            -       not        481
School                signific.              signific.      _       signific.              signific.
Complete       -      not            -       not        decreased      **      increased       *      480 to
Canteen               signific.              signific.    probab.              duration               507
Single     decreased                 -       not            -       not                    not
Grade      probab.                           signific.              signific.              signific.
School   I__I__I                                                 _ I           I__ __I
Literate    probably   nearly not  probably   nearly not    -       not                    not          (I)
Mother    decreased   signific.   increased   signific.             signific.              signific.
probab.               duration                         I    if_c_
Dropout probability: probability of dropping out before reaching Grade 4
Schooling duration: number of grades approved
(1) Literacy programs being developed on an experimental basis under this project, it is not possible to
refer to reliable unit costs.
Source (tables I & 2): adapted from Ministere de V'Education Nationale 1993



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
Table 3 Selected interventions by objectives, beneficiaries and costs
Action Selected     General Objective        Immediate            Beneficiaries       Unit cost
Objective                                per year
(US$)
AR  GG QU
A. 1. build fenced                       accommodate more  21,000 pupils            $32.2 per
multigrade schools    **    *     *      pupils at lower cost  per year             pupil
A.2. complete        **    **            reduce distance      36,000 pupils         $10.5 per
satellite schools                        from/to school        per year             pupil
A.3.a. develop       *     *      **    prepare teachers to   5,100 teachers        $2.0 per
adapted teaching                         work in multigrade                         pupil
methods for                              school
multigrade schools
A.3.b equip                              adapt equipment to   56,000 pupils         $6.1 per
multigrade facilities   *  *      **     multigrade teaching  per year              pupil
with pedagogic                           methods
material
A.4. extend school    **    **    *      increase incentives   66,000 pupils
canteen program                          to attend school     (equipment)           $27.5 per
(equipment & food                                             75,000 pupils (food   pupil
stuff)                                                        stuff) per year
A.5. improve        *      **            increase parents'    3,000 pupils          $6.3 per
Koranic preschool                        acceptability and    per year              pupil
facilities                               reduce girls' chores
B.l. distribute free       **    **    reduce direct costs   97,000 girls each      $9.4 per
textbooks to girls                       and increase         year                  girl
achievements
B.3. building latrines     **            increase school      90,000 pupils each   $2.2 per
and wells                                attractiveness       year                  pupil
B.5. organize       **    **             raise parents'       33,000 potential      $3.2 per
awareness campaigns                      acceptability and    new pupils each       pupil
attract more pupils    year
C.1. provide basic  *      *      **    make class-rooms    154,000 pupils          $2.4 per
material                                 more effective       each year             pupil
C.2. distribute     *      *      **     make teaching        23,000 teachers       $.3 per
teachers' manuals                        more effective                             pupil



Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
C.3. organize mobile            *     make more
libraies                              available basic
material
CS. equip                      **    provide              80 inspectorates    $1.1 per
inspectorates with                    inspectorates with                      pupil
vehicles                              necessary tools
$.3 per
C. 6. tmin school              **    improve school       240 directors       pupil
directors                             management
C.8. build housing              *     improve teachers'   280 rural teachers    $2.9 per
for teachers                          conditions of living                    pupil
Notes
AR= access and retention;      GG3= gender gap         QU= quality of education
** direct impact                 indirect impact
Source: Staff estimates
11   ASSESSING INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
S.     All costs have been assessed on an annual basis, at the end of the project. A first group of
incremental costs is associated directly with the implementation of the project, and a second group
would be borne after the end of the project.
6.     Incremental costs during project's life
(a)     Additional staff recruited for primary education
Two projections of enrollments, teaching and non-teaching staff required, and the corresponding
salary bill have been done, and are included within the Sectoral Action Program. The "Low
Hypothesis" refers to what would happen without the proposed project, while the "High Hypothesis"
takes into account the impact of the project (table 4). In order to assess the incremental staff costs
generated by the project, both projections have been compared. Since specific projections are not
available for the 13 project provinces, their enrollments have been estimated using current
proportions. The incremental salary cost generated by the project is the difference between what the
country would have paid without the project and what it would pay with it: 2,078 - 1,806 = DH 272.0
million.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
Table 4 Projections of teachers requirements and salaries (1994/95 - 2000/01)
1994/95          Low Hypothesis    High Hypothesis
Baseline         2000/01           2000/01
Whole Country
Total Staff      103,220           120,740           121,960
Total Salaries (1)   3,835         4,704            4,744
20 Project
Provinces
Schooling Ratio    66.0%           73.0%            85.6%
7-12 children    1,353,420         1,524,000         1,524,000
Pupil/teacher Ratio  23.2          24.0             25.0
Enrollments      893,300           1,112,500         1,335,700
Teachers         38,500            46,350           53,430
Total Salaries (1)   1,430         1,806            2,078
(I) DH million
(b)    Maintenance costs of additional cars
93 cars will be bought under the project. Their annual maintenance costs is assessed at 20% of the
value of a new car. Additional cost: DH 1.9 million.
(c)    Maintenance cost for new schools and other construction works
The annual maintenance cost is estimated at 2% of the value of the building. Over the project period,
the total value of all school buildings and other construction works is 266.3 DH million. Additional
cost: DH 5.3 million.
(d).    Maintenance and supplies for computers and printers
Additional cost: DH 0.2 million.
7.    Incremental costs after project completion period
(a)    School canteen prograrn
In 1994/95, the Government was contributing $14.0 million to this program, out of a total cost of
$22.5 million. If the Government was to commit a total substitution of donors' contribution from
2000/01 on, it would assume the total cost of the SCP at that time ($US million 35.6). Compared with
its 1994/95 contribution, this would represent an increase of DH 181.4 million. Although more
analysis will be needed to assess the impact of the SCP both with respect to school attendance and
school achievements, as well as its targeting and implementation, it is likely that a large portion of the
SCP will inevitably have to be borne by the state, after WFP's and Bank's withdrawal. Counting on
the contribution of local communities is probably not realistic at a large scale in the rural regions
where these communities are particularly short of resources



Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
(b)    Innovation fund
At the end of the project, the innovation fund will be evaluated. If it were decided to maintain it, after
evaluation, the additional cost will be DH 2.0 million.
(c)    In-service training of teachers assigned to multigrade classes
A one-week training program is going to be given to all 5,100 teachers assigned to multigrade classes
during the duration of the project. It may be useful to organize a second one-week seminar after the
end of the project for re-enforcement and evaluation. This will be done over a five-year period for all
5,100 teachers, at an additional cost of DH 1.2 million.
(d)     Distribution of free textbooks and school supplies to underprivileged children
Under the project, 20% of all pupils in rural primary schools in the 13 provinces will receive free
textbooks and school supplies. Since it may prove difficult to stop this activity, the Government
should commit to pursue its funding after the end of the project. The additional cost would be DH 0.8
million per year.
8.     The total incremental recurrent costs corresponding to activities to be completed during the
project life would be DH 465 million, and those for activities to be pursued after the project would
amount to DH 185 million, that is a total of DH 650 million, which would represent about 3 % of
MEN's recurrent budget around 2000/01.



Annex 7
Page I of I
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT UNDER PROOF OF SERVICE
A "proof of service" is a certificate established by the Government confirming that the specific
operation, service or activity has been implemented in accordance with agreed standards, criteria
or terms of references which have been reviewed by the Bank at priori. For a "certificate of
proof of service" (Certificate) to be awarded the following procedures would have to be
followed:
(a) By June of each year, a yearly program of activities, planned to be implemented during the
next fiscal year, will need to be established for each of the concerned communities. This
program will be established by the delegates at the provincial levels, submitted for review and
clearance to the respective line ministries and for approval to the Bank.
(b) Budgets, corresponding to the approved list of activities, will be made available by the line
ministries to the provincial delegations. For the construction of primary school facilities, each
community will include the necessary funds in its annual budget.
(c) Activities subject to lump sum disbursement procedures will be procured:
(i) in accordance with National Procurement Procedures
(ii) for civil works: in accordance with agreed staxEdards or architectural drawings
reviewed at priori by the Bank; and;
(iii) for training and seminars in accordance with agreed terms of references established
for each type of training or seminar, and reviewed by the Bank at priori.
(iv) Contracts and financial data related to activities subject to lump sum disbursement
procedures will not be subject to post review.
(d) Upon completion of the activity, the ministry's representative, accompanied by a technical
staff (architect or engineer for civil works, educator for seminars, etc.) will inspect the completed
facility or review the training/seminar, and issue a Certificate of completion and/or a Certificate
confirming that the training/seminar took place and was delivered as planned. This technical
Certificate will certify that the described activity has been implemented in accordance with the
agreed standards, criteria or terms of references, and will be established in a format and
content acceptable to the Bank. Because the disbursement amount is not a percentage of a
contract amount, and because the item has been procured in accordance with National
Procurement Procedures, it will not be required that the certificate mention the cost of the
operation, nor the procurement procedure.
(e) This certificate will be forwarded to the concerned Ministry which will prepare a monthly
Statement of Expenditures (SOE), listing all completed activities. The cost of each activity will
be the average cost as defined in Table 4.5 of the SAR. The amount to be reimbursed will be the
lump sum amount per activity, as listed in Table 4.5 and in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement.
The certificate of completion will also trigger other activities such as providing furniture,
educational material and teachers for education facilities.
(f) The annual audit will include an audit (at random) of some of the Certificates. The audit will
also include a technical audit (at random) of the implemented activities.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Table 1. Technical Assistance
RESOURCES RESOURCES
National     International
TYPE OF ASSISTANCE                      (person-month) (person-month)
A. Access and retention
1. Propose alternatives to the organization, management and  4 p/m         4 p/m
meals offered by the SCP.
2. Develop a strategy and a program for Kouttabs teachers   1 p/m
pre-service and in-service training.
3. Develop teaching materials for training of Kouttabs teachers  1.5 p/m
and counselors.
4. Develop textbooks for Kouttabs pupils.                   2 p/m
5. Develop guides and other teaching materials for Kouttabs  2 p/m
teachers and counselors.
6. Evaluate innovations concerning school calendar and daily                2 p/m
time-schedule in other countries.
7. Experiment flexible calendar and daily time-schedule.    2 p/m
8. Evaluate experimentation of flexible school calendar and  2 p/m
daily time-schedule.
9. Study options for identifying and targeting children not  2 p/m
admitted to primary school.
10. Experiment options for organizing basic education courses  2 p/m         1 p/m
targeted toward children not admitted to primary school.
11. Evaluate those experiments.                              1 p/m
B. Reduce participation gap between boys and girls.
12. Study options for implanting wells and latrines according to             2 p/m
local conditions.
13. Evaluate former schooling campaigns and develop a more   2 p/m
effective strategy.
C. Quality
14. Select a set of basic guides and books for rural teachers.  1 p/m
15. Organize a seminar on the results of the National        3 p/m          1.5 p/m
Assessment Program.
16. Launch a new National Assessment Program.                6 p/m           6 p/m
17. Develop a strategy for remedial teaching targeted towards  3 p/m
low-achievers.
18. Develop teaching materials for remedial teaching.        1 p/m
19. Evaluate the impact of remedial teaching.                2 p/m
20. Develop teaching materials for school heads.             2 p/m



Annex8
Page 2 of 3
RESOURCES RESOURCES
National     International
TYPE OF ASSISTANCE                      (person-month) (person-month)
21. Set up the organization of the innovation fund.          1 p/m
22. Categorize communities according to basic services      2 p/m
available and difficulty of life.
23. Develop a program for in-service and pre-service training  2 p/m        2 p/m
of teachers in physical education.
D. Improving the performance of literacy programs
24. Identify inputs and orientations for post-literacy strategies  1 p/m    6 p/m
adapted to the needs of the 6 provinces.
25. Finalize post-literacy strategies and study their        I p/m          3 p/m
consequences for the intervention of the concerned
Ministries.                                              3 p/m
26. Develop textbooks and teaching materials for literacy and
post-literacy courses.                                   I p/m
27. Evaluate literacy and post-literacy campaigns.          4 p/m
28. Evaluate the use of libraries.                           l p/m          I p/m
29. Train the trainers at central and provincial level.     2 p/m           6 p/m
30. Project evaluation.                                      l p/m          3 p/m
31. Develop a formative evaluation system.                   I p/m          12 p/m
32. Draft instruments.                                       l p/m          6 p/m
33. Test formative evaluation methodology.                   I p/m          6 p/m
34. Identify priority research themes.                       1 p/m          8 p/m
35. Carry out research projects.
E. Capacity building
2 p/m          I p/m
36. Evaluate computerization of DGSPP information system.   4 p/m           4 p/m
37. Finalize computerization of DGSPP information system.   3 p/m           3 p/m
38. Develop a public expenditure program (PEP).             3 p/m           3 p/m
39. Develop an advanced methodology for school mapping.     6 p/m           2 p/m
40. Follow-up of the implantation of the advanced school
mapping methodology at provincial level.                 3 p/m          2 p/m
41. Actualize Educational Atlas.                            4 p/m           2 p/m
42. Develop and implement a system of school indicators.    5 p/m           5 p/m
43. Evaluate the process of budget preparation and budget
allocation between provinces.                            4 p/m          4 p/m
44. Study on utilization of teachers in colleges and lycees.  2 p/m         2 p/m
45. Study on feasibility of locating staff positions at the school
level.                                                   3 p/m          3 p/m
46. Adjust human resources management techniques to
proposed changes.                                        2 p/m
47. Assess needs for studies on pupils achievement.          1 p/m          1 p/m
48. Train national specialists on assessment of achievement.  1 p/m         1 p/m
49. Specify indicators for project follow-up and evaluation.  2 p/m         2 p/m
50. Elaborate a long-term program for studies on education.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
Table 2. Training
RESOURCES
National/
International
TYPE OF ASSISTANCE                               (person-week)
A. Access and retention
1. Train trainers for multigrade teaching.
2. In-service training of teachers assigned to multigrade classes.
3. Pre-service training of new teachers for multigrade teaching.
4. Training of Kouttabs counselors.                                      3p/w (N)
5. Training of trainers of Kouttabs teachers.                            lp/w (N)
6. Training of Kouttabs teachers.                                        5p/w (N)
B. Quality
7. Training on data collection and processing of school inputs.          2p/w (N)
8. Seminar on National Assessment Program results.                      lp/w (I/N)
9. Training on specialists for new National Assessment Program.         6p/w (I/N)
10. Training of trainers involved in remedial teaching.                   2p/w (N)
11. Training trainers of school heads.                                    2p/w (N)
12. Implementing an in-service training program for school heads in some  20 p/w (N)
CFIs.
C. Improving the performance of the literacy program
13. Analyze studies and documents on literacy and post-literacy programs  1 p/w (N)
14. Train provincial staff on new post-literacy programs.                 4 p/w (N)
15. Train staff in charge of experimental projects.                       6 p/w (N)
16. Disseminate new post-literacy orientations and methods.              2 p/w (I/N)
17. Management training for provincial staff.                             5 p/w (N)
18. Train staff on formative evaluation.                                   ? (I/N)
D. Capacity building
19. Train DSPP personnel for preparation of Public Expenditure Program   6 p/w (I/N)
20. Train provincial and national staff for advanced mapping technique.  6 p/w (I/N)
21. Train staff responsible for resource allocation between provinces.   10 p/w (I/N)
22. Seminar on results of personnel management and utilization studies.  3 p/w (I/N)
23. Train staff on evaluation of achievement techniques                  6 p/w (I/N)



Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Project Implementation Monitoring:
Key Indicators
Indicator     Geographic         Contents         Baseline Value    Target Value
Unit                               (1995/96)       (2000/01)
1. Admission of    Target     Proportion of girls in  37.8%          45.6%
Girls             provinces   total admissions in first
grade
2. Expenditures    National   Total budgetary         51.0 DH         97.1 DH million
on didactic inputs            expenditures (MoE)      million
allocated to school books
and materials
3. Coverage rate   Target     Number of "douars" with  net: 36.8%     net: 39.1%
provinces    an accessible primary  gross: 92.1%    gross: 94.3
school inside douar (net)
inside and outside
(gross)
4. Number of      Target                              354 364         **
beneficiaries of the  provinces
School Canteen
System
5. Enrollment     Target      Number of children      girls:77.7%    girls:98.8%
rate              provinces    enrolled in basic      boys:34.8%     boys:72.8%
education/number of    all:55.0%       all:86.1%
children aged 7-12
6. Girls'         Target      Number of girls enrolled   31.0%       41.4%
participation rate   provinces   in basic education/total
enrollments in basic
education
7. share of free  Target      Number of books         0%             20%
school books      provinces    distributed free of charge
for primary schools
children/total number of
books distributed in
primary schools
8. StudentV       Target      Number of students per   22.9          24.4
teacher ratio     provinces   teacher in primary
schools



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
9. Student/       Target       Number of students per   31.0           33.8
classroom ratio   provinces    classroom in primary
schools
10. Student/      Target       Number of students per   23.2           25.0
class ratio       provinces    pedagogic group in
primary schools
11. retention of    Target     Number of girls enrolled   35.9%        64.6%
girls at school   provinces   in grade 6 / number of
girls enrolled in grade 1
5 years earlier
12. Quality of    Target       Number of primary       W: 13.9%        W: 15.7
school facilities  provinces    schools equipped with  L: 20.3%        L: 24.5%
drinkable water (W) or
latrines (L) / total
number of primary
schools
13. Pre-school    Target       Number of children      43.1%           *
enrollment rate   provinces    enrolled in a pre-school/
total number of children
aged 4-6
14. Retention     Target       Number of schools       59.3%           *
potential of      provinces    offering 6 grades / total
schools                        number of schools
15. Number of     Target                               6358            *
multigrade classes  provinces
Literacv          Target
provinces
16. Enrollment                 Number of adults        376 998         *
enrolled
17. Dropout rate   Target      Number of participants    40%           20%
provinces    who do not complete a
training cycle
18. Success rate    Target     Number of enrollees who  91%            100%
provinces    succeed in final exam /
number of participants to
the exam
* indicator will be monitored but target cannot be realistically set.
** Target will be set during mid-term review.



Annex 1O
Page I of I
SELECTED INFORMATION IN THE PROJECT FILE
I.     Project Documentation
World Bank/Kingdom of Morocco:     Project Implementation Volumes (in French)
Ministere de I'Education Nationale:    Plan d'Action Sectoriel
II.    References
Ministere Chzarge de la Population 1995    Strategie de Developpement Social pour la
decennie 90
Ministere de l'Education Nationale 1993    Analyse des determinants de la scolarisation en
zone rurale au Maroc
World Bank 1995a     Enhancing the Participation of Women in Development (Report No.14153)
World Bank 1995b     Morocco: Education and Training for the Twenty-first Century
World Bank 1995c     Kingdom of Morocco. Country Economic Memorandum. Towards Higher
Growth and Employment (Report No. 14155-MOR)
World Bank 1995d     Claiming the Future. Choosing Prosperity in the Middle East and North
Africa
World Bank 1994a     Kingdom of Morocco. Poverty, Adjustment, and Growth
(Report No. 11918-MOR)
World Bank 1994b     Schooling and Cognitive Achievements of Children in Morocco. Can the
Govermment Improve Outcomes ? World Bank Discussion Paper No. 264
World Bank 1994c     Royaume du Maroc: Depenses publiques. Probl6matique et perspectives
(Report No. 13413-MOR)
World Bank 1994d     Kingdom of Morocco: Costs, Financing and Efficiency of the Education
System (Report No. 11937-MOR)
World Bank 1993      Kingdom of Morocco: Literacy and Schooling in Rural Areas
(Report No. 12382-MOR)
World Bank 1992      Investing in All the People. Educating Women in Developing Countries
(EDI                        Seminar Paper No.45)






IBRD 27640
MOROCCO                                                                                      4-
MAROC                                                   TANGfRJ                           Me di` e 1 r a r e c:    c
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM                                                              TETOUANIA
PROGRAMME PRIORITES SOCIALES  E  ~                                                                                - _
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                            CHEFCHIAOUEN- HOCEIMA    NADOR                    
PROJET EDUCATION DE BASE                                                    1-A                  AOMpdc
SELECTED PROGRAM PROVINCES                                          K   _                TAOUNATE        .r- I.  -/   J
PROVINCES SELECTIONNEES POUR LE PROGRAMME                                        ?CQIDLKACEM--, Toonoi                               1'                oIrrd <
0 R ab                                       TA i tA  Joo    ^    OUJDA
69   ' KHEMISSET.,    MeEne>.  t.,                       s                           iFES
T     4  -'  / T    C;                    Mo-do        RABAT.,..mt %   @                     SeI,ou
U.' Coso o    'P BENI SLIMANE  ;_                                       /
O    C    E  A    N                                                                "IFRANE yCASABLANCA0   )- SB -St   *   Q -
El-Jodidc                                                                      B o'uE mA\ _-t  . 
0      W Berroch,d                           \ MEkNES\  '               BOUIEMANE
0-        / KHOURIBGA \           '
EL-JADIDA      SETTAT KhoFribgc@        Z          keniro       -_ -           /                     PIGUIG
o.dZ..t\
~A KHENJFRA
K .,/ T.dIao ,,  (-
-_-     /         S 1q_  j   -BENI-MELLAL   -
0                ~~KELA                           '     -                                                                    Fgi
-32*                                '      SAFI            SRAGHNA WN                         J.        f-
/        I            /--A-~                                 *0K                            '.
{     _ -?Ti y  ; 7 ,tgLeb   */.-       _               ERRACHID/A
ES RAj          hShcoltoooo   jrThono  t     1                                )                       L
f   nCHICHAOIJA    EL t        ,~.    ;                                               _       rHL
E.......
Agod..      To           )                                                       0                 SHARE OF RURAL POPULATION OF A PROVINCE
TARO(JDANNT (                                   ! \                                    PROPORTION DE LA POPULATION RURAIF D'UNE PROVINCE
AGADIR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PAR RAPPORT A LA POPULATION TOTAIE DE LA PROVINCE
* _ , _,,)  I._               Z- g   +o.                                     BETWEEN 50% AND 74%
.*---n-;t'  i<S;,_47                                                                         ENTRE So _   -     s75% AND MORE
ToM                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75% PT PIUS
J\ TlZNfl<   }TATA                                                                                RIVERS
TI2NfP-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~COUR D'EAU
I                                                                    0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~PRVNECAPITALS
<                     r                    -                                                             @    CAPITALES PROVINCIAIES
CAPITALE NATIONAIE
/     /                ~ ~~~~~~~~0 so   100      \50                          _,_PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
50  lEO   /50                               U~~~~~~~~~~~LMITES PRO VINCIALES
. -. S- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KtLOMETERS                                                                     IIRAINLBUDRE
Sl: >        ~~~G UEL MIM E                                                                                               F: RONTERESINlNTEbRoNuATINTALES
RO,Ton-l=n    ----~.7                -         |ITh. b-ondo-es,  dominoton. ond ony other rfnorr-otrI-                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Mshos.n on th,. rop do no .,-ply, on h port of Th. World 6=nl GDoup  (APPROXIMATE)
TAN-TAN                                                  orocc.ptoneoNchbotndori.                                             FRONTIERES INTERNATIONAE                       2
.4ARCH I996









IMAGING
Report No:      15074 MOR
Type: SAR



