Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4024 MOR
                               Loan Agreement
                          Social Priorities Program
                          (Basic Education Project)
                                    between
                              KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated September 27, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4024 MOR
                                 LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1996, between Kingdom of Morocco (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Bank has received a letter dated April 22, 1996 from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to further the efficiency and sound development of the
Borrower's education sector (hereinafter called the Program);
     (C)  by a loan agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan for the basic health
project (the Health Loan Agreement) to assist in the financing of
activities related to the Borrower's Social Priorities Program (Barnamaj
Al Aoulaouiyat Al Ijtimaiya, hereinafter called the BAJ);
     (D)  by a loan agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan for the coordination
and monitoring of social programs, and labor promotion project (the Labor
Loan Agreement) to assist in the financing of activities related to the
BAJ; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the fore-
going, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is pro-
          hibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
          taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subpara-
graph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Dirhams" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period starting July 1
and ending June 30 of the following calendar year;
     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Secretariat" means the unit within the Borrower's Department
of Programming of the Ministry of Population responsible for the
monitoring and coordination of the BAJ;
     (e)  "Selected Provinces" mean the provinces of Ouarzazate,
Taroudant, Tiznit, Al Haouz, Chichaoua, Essaouira, Safi, Azilal,
Chefchaouen, Sidi Kacem; Al Hoceima, El Kelaa Sraghna and Taza; and
     (f)  "Project Indicators" mean the indicators agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of fifty-four million dollars ($54,000,000), being the sum of with-
drawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Page  3
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dirhams a special deposit account in its General Treasury
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
               date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
               Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
               borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
               to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
               may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
               interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
               months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
          of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at
          a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
          plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
          Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
          outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
          at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
Page  4
          "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
          year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through its Ministries
responsible for National Education, Interior and Employment and
Social Affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, educational, environmental and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal
               Year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                             Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                  ARTICLE VI
                                  Termination
     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and External Investments
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MINISTERE FINANCES       36936 M
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
Page  6
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
               By /s/ Mohamed Kabbaj
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                            Middle East and North Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below set forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the lump-sum or percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the         Lump-sum or
                         Loan Allocated            % of
                         (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:
     (a)  for activities    15,000,000        lump-sum in
           listed under para-                 accordance with
           graph 2 (c) below                  paragraph 2 (c)
                                              below
     (b)  for activities     2,000,000        100% of foreign
           not listed under para-             expenditures and
           graph 2 (c) below                  70% of local
                                              expenditures
(2)  Equipment              25,000,000        100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              70% of local
                                              expenditures
(3)  Training:
     (a)  seminars listed     3,000,000       lump-sum in
           under paragraph                    accordance with
           2 (c) below                        paragraph 2 (c)
                                              below
Page  7
     (b)  other training      1,000,000       100%
(4)  Consultants'             2,000,000       100%
     services
(5)  Unallocated              6,000,000
                             __________
          TOTAL              54,000,000
                             ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "lump-sum" means for each activity listed below
and eligible under Category 1 (a) or Category 3 (a) of the table
under paragraph 1 above, the corresponding amount per unit, expressed
in Dirhams, to be disbursed under the Loan:
Category 1 (a): Civil works
Activities                           Lump sum disbursement
Classrooms and satellite schools            200,000
Fence to school                             100,000
Teachers quarters                           150,000
Latrines                                     30,000
School water wells                           50,000
Improvements to premises for                150,000
  literacy programs
Category 3 (a): Seminars
Activities                           Lump sum disbursement
Seminars, sensitization campaigns            50,000
and educative innovation projects
(per Seminar)
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,400,000 may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures twelve (12)
months before that date.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures
for activities listed under paragraph 2 (c) above irrespective of the
value of the contracts pursuant to which such expenditures are
incurred; and (b) for expenditures under contracts costing less than
$500,000 equivalent for works and goods, and $100,000 equivalent for
services of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for services of
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its
efforts to strengthen its educational system both in qualitative and
quantitative terms.
Page  8
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Improving access to and retention in basic education
1.   Construction and equipment of about 360 multigrade schools with a
maximum of two classrooms in communities with over 200 inhabitants with
no access to full primary school nearby in the Selected Provinces.
2.   Construction of about 650 micro satellite schools for the entire
cycle of lower-basic education through multigrade courses.
3.   Development of a new methodology and teaching materials for multi-
grade teaching, and organization of pre-service and in-service training
for about 5,000 teachers assigned to multigrade classes and for all new
teachers.
4.   Support to the school canteen program in the Selected Provinces
through the acquisition of equipment and the provision of logistical
support.
5.   Improvement, on a pilot basis, of pre-school teaching through the
acquisition of equipment and teaching materials for selected Koranic
pre-schools, and the implementation of a program for initial and
continuing pedagogical and professional training for pre-school
teachers.
6.   Development and implementation, on a pilot basis, of techniques
for imparting basic skills to children aged ten to sixteen who have
never attended lower basic education.
Part B:   Reducing the Gender Gap
1.   Distribution of textbooks and school supplies free of charge to
under privileged children.
2.   Installation of about 300 latrines and about 150 wells in schools
with a demonstrated low female enrollment.
3.   Rehabilitation of school facilities.
4.   Organization of awareness campaigns in the Selected Provinces to
promote schooling for girls in rural areas.
Part C:   Improving the Quality of Education
1.   Provision of furnishings and a minimum set of teaching materials to
all schools that lack them.
2.   Distribution of teachers' guides to all teachers assigned to rural
schools.
3.   Organization of remedial courses for underachieving pupils.
4.   Provision of equipment and vehicles to school inspectorates to
strengthen the efficiency of their mission.
5.   Organization of training courses for school directors to assist
them in improving their efficiency.
6.   Promotion of innovative actions at the school level designed to
improve the quality of education, strengthen professional relations
among school teachers, promote school life, and integrate the school
within the community.
7.   Construction of about 180 houses to board teachers living in
remote areas.
Part D:   Literacy Programs
Page  9
1.   Provision of technical assistance for the development of strategies
designed to monitor and evaluate the experience of literacy campaigns.
2.   Revision of the current methodology to adapt it to the requirements
of the various types of functional training supported by the Project.
3.   Institutional and technical support to the Ministry of the Borrower
responsible for Employment and Social Affairs for adult literacy
campaigns through training to improve human resources capabilities,
improvements to premises for literacy programs, and the acquisition of
equipment thereof.
Part E:   Capacity Building
1.   Development of a multi-year rolling public expenditure program for
the lower-basic and secondary education sectors, and implementation of
a training program in techniques related to the preparation and
monitoring of public expenditures programs for the staff of the
Borrower's Ministry of Education involved in statistics, forecasting
and planning.
2.   Assessment of personnel management and utilization procedures of
lower-basic and secondary education staff.
3.   Provision of computerized monitoring and evaluation tools for the
Project to the planning offices of the Ministry of Education at the
provincial level.
4.   Strengthening of regional and local school mapping methods to take
into account family and community social and economic characteristics,
and to coordinate the development of the education system with other
investment programs.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule*
                                    Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)
     November 15, 2001                   1,050,000
     May 15, 2002                        1,085,000
     November 15, 2002                   1,120,000
     May 15, 2003                        1,160,000
     November 15, 2003                   1,200,000
     May 15, 2004                        1,245,000
     November 15, 2004                   1,285,000
     May 15, 2005                        1,330,000
     November 15, 2005                   1,380,000
     May 15, 2006                        1,425,000
     November 15, 2006                   1,475,000
     May 15, 2007                        1,530,000
     November 15, 2007                   1,580,000
     May 15, 2008                        1,635,000
     November 15, 2008                   1,695,000
     May 15, 2009                        1,755,000
     November 15, 2009                   1,815,000
     May 15, 2010                        1,875,000
     November 15, 2010                   1,945,000
     May 15, 2011                        2,010,000
     November 15, 2011                   2,080,000
     May 15, 2012                        2,155,000
     November 15, 2012                   2,230,000
     May 15, 2013                        2,305,000
     November 15, 2013                   2,385,000
     May 15, 2014                        2,470,000
     November 15, 2014                   2,555,000
Page  10
     May 15, 2015                        2,645,000
     November 15, 2015                   2,740,000
     May 15, 2016                        2,840,000
_____________________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                         Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be pre-
paid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                     Premium
                                The interest rate (expressed as a
                                percentage per annum) applicable to
                                the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not               0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not              0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before              1.00
     maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods other
than furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
Page  11
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (c)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  (i) Furniture, and (ii) other goods estimated to cost less
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $15,000,000 equivalent for both, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provision of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $4,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agree-
ment, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7
of the Guidelines.
4.   Force Account
     Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guide-
lines, and costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
Page  12
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
adequate procedures and indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference to be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30,
1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evalua-
tion activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date, including a medium-term plan on the
coverage, targeting and financing of the school canteen program
referred to under Part A.4 of the Project; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
2.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the
Borrower shall, starting in 1997 and by September 30 of each year,
submit to the Bank an annual implementation report including: (a) a
review of progress achieved in the implementation of the Project based
on the Project Indicators; (b) projected sector and Project expendi-
tures for the year; and (c) programs for Project activities in the
Selected Provinces.
3.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments
by March 31, 1997, an action plan comprising measures to improve pro-
Page  13
curement, payment and disbursement procedures of the Borrower, and
start implementation, not later than October 31, 1997, of those
measures that shall have been agreed with the Bank.
4.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996: (i) appoint
a BAJ coordinator within its Ministry of Education; (ii) a BAJ
coordinator within its Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs; and
(iii) take all necessary measures for the appointment of a BAJ focal
point in each one of the Selected Provinces.
5.   The Borrower shall, starting with its Fiscal Year 1996/1997,
earmark the expenditures for the activities financed under the Project
in the respective budgets of the Ministries responsible for Education,
Employment and Social Affairs.
6.   The Borrower shall, starting in 1997, prepare and update each year
thereafter a multiyear rolling public expenditure program for the lower-
basic and secondary education sector, and furnish a copy of said program
to the Bank for discussion by July 31 of each such year.
7.   The Borrower shall carry out an assessment of the personnel
management and utilization procedures of upper-basic and secondary
teachers and furnish a copy of said assessment to the Bank by December
31, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $18,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
Page  14
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
Page  15
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
