Document of
The World Bank   FILE CiPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2272a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 21, 1979
I   sis dtm_l s km a rstted dlutbuon ad my be mew by reienb lony lithe perfemace d
dwir dgel gate. IBs cet  my MSt Othedwis be dbssed  wIth   Wwd Bak a. ihd tlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Sudanese Pound (ESd)
US$1             =    LSd 0.50
LSd 1            =    US$2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2  =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)          =    2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)       =    2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 feddan (Fd)            =    1.038 acres (ac)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVATIONS
ADAR     -  Associates for the Development of Arab Resources
CAD      -  Civil Aviation Department C
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development Agency
FRG      -  Federal Republic of Germany
ILO      -  International Labour Organization
MNP      -  Ministry of National Planning
RBPC     -  Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
RTC      -  River Transport Corporation
SPC      -  Sea Ports Corporation
SRC      -  Sudan Railways Corporation
SRMCTR   -  Southern Regional Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Roads
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:        Roads and Bridges Public Corporation; Southern Regional
Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads
Amount:             US$41 million equivalent
Terms:              Standard.
Project             The proposed project is designed to facilitate the trans-
Description:       port and export of agricultural production; improve access-
ibility of currently settled but isolated areas; provide
access to new areas of agricultural development; develop
appropriate organizational, planning and technical skills
in the Southern Regional Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Roads (SRMCTR) for preparing, undertaking and
supervising road programs and projects; expand the level of
maintenance expenditures. The project would consist of (a)
the construction of a two-lane bituminous surfaced road
between Jebel Aulia and Ed Dueim (158 km), including an
improved ferry crossing at Ed Dueim and two ferries; (b)
assistance in strengthening the Roads Department of the
SRMCTR by provision of technical assistance, workshops,
offices, equipment, spares and fuel; (c) consulting ser-
vices for detailed engineering of the Jebel Aulia-Rabak
road and about 500 km of other roads and for supervision
of construction of (a) above. The major risks are that
construction costs could be higher than estimated and that
RBPC may fail to maintain adequately the Jebel Aulia-Ed
Dueim road.
Summary of
Project Costs:
US$ Million             % of
Description of Major Elements:            Local   Foreign   Total      Total
Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim
Road and ferries                   5.6      23.0      28.6       55.3%
Consulting Services                  0.8       2.9        3.7       7.2%
Assistance to SRMCTR                  1.1      5.0        6.1      11.8%
Base Cost                       7.5      30.9      38.4       74.3%
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  1
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Contingencies:
Physical                         0.8          3.0           3.8      7.4%
Price                            2.4          7.1            9.5    18.3%
Total Project Cost         10.7         41.0          51.7    100%
Total Project Cost
net of taxes and duties   8.0           41.0          49.0
Financing:                                        US$ Million
IDA                                        41.0
Government                                  8.0
Total Project Cost                      49.0
(net of taxes, duties)
Estimated Disbursements:             IDA Fiscal Year 1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
(US$ Million)
Annual            9.3  11.1  12.4   7.2   1.0
Cumulative        9.3  20.4  32.8  40.0  41.0
Rate of Return:                      14%
Appraisal:                          Report No. 1888b-SU dated December 22, 1978
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Map:                                IBRD No. 13332R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$41 million to the Democratic Republic of the
Sudan to help finance a Second Highway project. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan last November and its
report is now being finalized.  Major conclusions are reflected in this
report.  The last economic report distributed to the Board was the Economic
Memorandum of September, 1976 (Report No. 1273a-SU).
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa.  It is also a poor country with a population of about 16.5
million and is classified by the UN as a least developed country.  Per capita
GNP is estimated at about $300.  Much of the country is unoccupied or very
sparsely populated, and in contrast to many developing countries, there is
little population pressure on presently developed land. Although a large part
of the country consists of desert or semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has
great untapped potential for agricultural development. Estimates indicate
that about two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral
production, and only a small fraction of this land is under intensive use.
The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major
commodity produced on irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame
and groundnuts. Its considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped.
The manufacturing sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing
of such agricultural commodities as cotton, oil seeds and sugar, it is limited
to the production of consumer goods and building materials. There have been
some exports of chrome ore and further development of these deposits is taking
place. A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
reported discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country.
Although, it is not known if oil exists in commercial quantities, the report
nonetheless lends a new dimension to Sudan's often proclaimed "potential".
The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese economy. It em-
braces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways and virtually all power
and water supply. With nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance was also transferred to the
public sector. Although some industrial enterprises have been returned
to the private sector, about half of the GDP is still generated within the
public sector.
4.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth



- 2 -
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
recurrent expenditure was caused by increasing security expenditures, the
policy of hiring all post secondary school graduates and converting casual
labor on public projects into permanent government employees and rapidly
increasing transfers to local government. Further, savings generated by
public corporations also declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing
policies. The civil war in the south also claimed considerable energy and
resources. Public sector deficits were increasingly financed through ex-
cessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the external position
was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation
of export volume. Following the Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought
peace to the south, the Government directed its attention more to the devel-
opment needs of the country. Priorities have been re-emphasized in the Six-
Year Plan document for the period 1977/78-1982/83. These include: the
amelioration of the severe transport bottleneck; the attainment of self-
sufficiency in a number of important consumer products; and the expansion
of exports to improve the country's foreign exchange position. Most of the
development projects started in the last few years have been in line with
these priorities.
Economic Performance and Recent Developments
5.        Over the five-year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent -- a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income. Public investment, which increased from
US$75 million in 1973 to about US$300 million per annum in the years 1975-77,
has been concentrated on the highest priority needs. Most of the transport
investment has gone into increasing the efficiency and capacity of the railway
system, which carries about half of all freight and passenger movements, and
into developing and expanding alternative modes of transport, especially
between Port Sudan (the country's only port) and Khartoum. Priority also has
been given to increasing the domestic production of such vital commodities as
sugar, wheat and textiles.
6.        Agricultural production in Sudan has shown increasing diversifica-
tion into new crops during recent years. The production of food grains, of
which the most important are two varieties of millet grown mainly on rainfed
land (sorghum and dukhn), and wheat, which has expanded rapidly on irrigated
lands, is oriented toward satisfying domestic consumption. Groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic have traditionally been major cash crops grown mainly
for export, and recently sugarcane cultivation and commercial livestock
development have become increasingly important areas of agricultural activity.
7.        In the industrial sector, the bulk of new public investments has
gone into the textile and sugar sub-sectors. On infrastructure development,
the length of bitumen paved roads has increased from less than 400 km in 1973



- 3 -
to about 1,500 km now, and will approximately double between now and 1983.
The main road between Khartoum and Port Sudan should be completed by mid-1979.
A petroleum oil pipeline between Khartoum and Port Sudan became operative
in 1977.
Trade and Financial Development
8.        The increased rate of investment on the part of the public sector,
which is bringing about significant structural changes in the economy, is
in sharp contrast with the relative stagnatiDn of the late sixties and early
seventies. However, in most other respects, the standard of economic man-
agement needs improvement. Indeed, the most notable feature of the Sudanese
economy today is the acute balance of payments and budgetary difficulties
facing the Government. With regard to the balance of payments, the underlying
reasons for the deterioration have been an inadequate pattern of incentives
in agriculture coupled with expansionary financial policies. The former
factor has caused export performance below Sudan's potential while the latter
has been reflected in a build-up of inflationary pressures which increased
import demand and reduced export availabilities. The balance of payments
difficulties have been exacerbated by a decrease in net external assistance
precisely at the time when the Government has been attempting to accelerate
the development effort.
9.        Although receipts from exports have been rising consistently, the
volume of exports declined by some 13 percent between the years 1970-77;
thus, the rise in export receipts was entirely due to higher prices. The
volume of cotton exports has shown a declining trend with a particularly sharp
fall since 1973. An important factor behind this adverse trend has been a
system of explicit and implicit disincentives, such as the application of
a relatively appreciated exchange rate for the conversion of cotton export
receipts and the disproportionate share of production costs borne by cotton
in the public irrigation schemes. Declining prices and sharply reduced demand
abroad also contributed to the drop in cotton exports from 62 percent of total
exports in 1970/71 to only 37 percent in 1974/75. Since then demand has
recovered somewhat and in 1976/77 cotton exports amounted to 48 percent of
total exports.
10.       On the imports side, the rise in prices of crude oil, most inter-
mediate imports, and essential food imports that occurred after 1973 coincided
with the higher rate of investment in Sudan, which necessitated a significant
expansion in capital and intermediate goods imports. The increase in the
value of imports in the period 1973-1977 averaged 23 percent per annum, com-
pared to 8.5 percent per annum for exports. The largest increase in imports
has been in the amount of imported transport equipment, reflecting the efforts
being exerted to improve all means of transport, particularly road transport.
The increase in the amount of machinery and spare parts is mainly attributed
to major development projects under execution.
11.       As a result of these developments, the current account deficit,
which averaged US$27 million in 1970/73 or about 2 percent of GDP, widened to
US$640 million in 1975, or approximately 15 percent of GDP. Initially, the



- 4 -
increases in the current account deficit were financed by capital inflows
which, on a net basis, reached a peak of US$250 million in 1975, as well as
by short-term borrowing by the Bank of Sudan. In the last three years, how-
ever, as the volume of capital inflows declined, the current account deficits
were financed to a significant extent by the accumulation of arrears.
12.       The internal imbalance stems to a large extent from inadequate
demand management policies, serious deficiencies in the operation of public
enterprises and in the incentive pattern in agriculture. On the fiscal front,
the rise in development expenditures from LSd 25 million in the early 1970s
to levels in excess of ESd 100 million since 1974/75 was largely financed
through an increase in foreign assistance which reached a peak of ISd 114 mil-
lion in 1974/75. Subsequently, foreign aid declined sharply and by 1976/77
the net official capital inflow was ISd 22.1 million. However, domestic pub-
lic expenditures on both development and current operations continued to grow.
While a number of production and consumption taxes have been introduced since
1974/75, the increase in Government revenues has been limited. As a result,
the Government deficit has been rising steadily and, in the face of declining
external assistance, could only be financed through increased borrowings
from the banking system. The borrowings, in turn, have provided the primary
impetus to the rapid expansion in money supply. Over the period 1973/74-
1976/77, for example, money supply grew at an average rate of 29 percent per
annum. Since the growth rate of real GNP in Sudan during this period was in
the neighborhood of only 4 percent per annum, this expansion resulted in
significant inflationary pressures in the economy. In addition, public
enterprises, which generate a large share of agricultural production and a
rising share of industrial output, have incurred losses averaging hSd 27
million annually. As a consequence of all these factors, the public sector
deficit, which amounted to ESd 29 million in 1972/73 rose to ESd 208.5 mil-
lion in 1976/77, equivalent to 38 percent of total budgetary expenditure, or
10 percent of GDP.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
13.       A major consequence of the above developments was a resort to for-
eign borrowing to finance development expenditures and to support the balance
of payments. Specifically, commitments have averaged about US$540 million
annually in the last four years, as compared to US$110 million annually in
the preceding four-year period. As a result, debt outstanding (including
undisbursed balances) rose from US$0.6 billion in 1972 to US$2.8 billion in
1977. Furthermore, the Central Bank has repeatedly had to borrow abroad in
order to finance the overall deficit, while in the last three years arrears
on imports and other current payments as well as on external debt have accu-
mulated. Total arrears at the end of April 1978 amounted to about US$860
million, of which US$500 million was on current payments and US$360 million
on account of external debt.
14.       A most disturbing feature of Sudan's external borrowing in the
recent past has been the relatively poor terms on which the loans have been
secured. The average terms of all commitments of public loans in the period
1974-77 were 5.5 percent interest, 17 years maturity, including 4.5 years



grace, compared to an average of 3 percent interest, 32 years maturity, in-
cluding 6 years grace in the preceding three-year period. Thus, the grant
element of loans dropped from 48 percent in 1972 to 18 percent in 1974, and
in the last three years has averaged 34 percent. The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's
debt service is 13 percent and of debt outstanding is 9 percent (1977). We
estimate the 'Bank/IDA share of debt service will fall to about 3 percent in
1985 when the Bank/IDA share of debt outstanding would be about 8 percent.
Policy Changes
15.       With the above background of serious payments imbalances relating
to structural maladjustments in production, trade, and prices, the most
positive recent development was the Government's decision in June, 1978 to
implement a stabilization program as part of an agreement with the IMF that
involves a draw down of 51 million SDR's from two support facilities -- the
first credit tranche and the trust fund. The agreement involved a devalua-
tion of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 20 percent, and declarations of
intent by Government to keep deficit financing within certain limits, and to
limit short and medium-term foreign borrowing. Also, as part of the Fund
agreement, the Government has announced that the pricing system in the irri-
gated agriculture sector will be reformed and that land and water charges will
be imposed on most crops. These measures are intended to have the effect of
improving producer incentives and moving resources into the production of crops,
such as cotton, in which Sudan has a comparative advantage and away from the
production of unprofitable crops such as wheat. They could also have positive
impact on public sector finances, enabling Government to obtain an adequate
rate of return on its investment, and allowing the agricultural production
corporations to adequately cover their cost of production. At the time of the
June devaluation it was expected that other elements of the stabilization
program could be implemented fairly quickly. However, Government has since
indicated that it would want to reconsider certain elements of the program and
the timing. This is now the subject of continuing discussions.
16.       As the Government seeks to improve the standard of economic manage-
ment, it will need to put particular emphasis on domestic resource mobiliza-
tion. So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is required
in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures do not
exceed appropriated amounts. Additionally, budgetary transfers from the
central to provincial and, through them, to local governments need to be
placed on a permanently sustainable basis. As a result of the current bud-
getary and balance of payments difficulties, the Government has decided to
initiate only the most urgent new development projects, mainly in infrastruc-
ture, and to concentrate in the next two years on completing on-going projects
and rehabilitating existing ones. While the Government is still committed to
the objectives of the Six-Year Plan, the volume of investments in the first
three years will be significantly lower than originally planned.
17.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reforms in the tax
system should be to make it more development-oriented. This requires a
reduction in the reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based
consumption taxes and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the



- 6 -
growth in the modern agricultural sector. Another important aspect of re-
source mobilization is the role of parastatals. While the public sector in
Sudan dominates all non-traditional economic activities, public enterprises
have failed to generate adequate surpluses to finance development expenditures,
and their operational deficits have become a drain on the Government budget.
The Government has completed a comprehensive review of the operations and
performance of parastatal organizations. Bank staff have assisted in the
review and it is expected that a program of reforms of the parastatal sector
based upon the review will shortly be drawn up by the Government.
18.       The recent buildup of external public debt and the foreign liabili-
ties of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt management.
Further easing of the external debt service burden is also necessary. The
debt service ratio, which reached 24 percent in 1977, is projected to exceed
25 percent each year over the next ten years and in some years will be as high
as 40%. It is essential for Government to borrow on concessionary terms and
to restrict borrowing to that required for priority investments. In addition
to factors described above, which were responsible for the buildup of external
public debt, the debt management problem in Sudan is also one of knowledge --
the multiplicity of agencies in the Government dealing with some aspects of
data collection or debt management makes it difficult to obtain a comprehensive
and accurate picture of Sudan's external debt transactions. New procedures to
ensure better debt management were introduced by a decree issued in February
1976, which confined the authority to contract foreign loans to the Ministries
of Finance and National Economy. The Bank, in July 1976, presented the
Sudanese Government with an analysis of Sudan's debt data and made recommenda-
tions for the centralization and analysis of such data. The Government has
now established a special unit in the Ministry of Finance and National Economy
to ensure the centralization and analysis of debt data. The Bank has been
asked to provide technical assistance to the Unit. Sudanese authorities are
also in the process of negotiating a rescheduling of debt with some of the
principal creditors, particularly the Arab countries.
19.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of saving and investment, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the
last three years. However, the country faces severe balance of payments and
domestic resource mobilization problems in the short run. While these are
familiar problems in developing countries, they are especially acute in the
Sudan. Consequently, basic policy decisions, some of which have been outlined
in the preceding paragraphs, will have to be made if these prospects are to
be realized. The recent economic measures (para. 15) represent an important
beginning and indicate a greater awareness by Government of the seriousness
of the economic and financial situation. As a result of current discussions
with the Bank and Fund it is hoped that a more comprehensive set of corrective
policies can be undertaken over the next two years. For the immediate future,
the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of development by help-
ing channel resources into priority sectors, by extending technical assistance
to improve project implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on
critical policy issues.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group commitments to Sudan now total US$480.9 million.
Of this, US$25.8 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight loans
(two on Third Window terms) and 20 credits for a total of 26 projects. Six
loans and one credit are fully disbursed while eighteen projects and one tech-
nical assistance project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank, are under
implementation. Almost half of the total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agri-
cultural development: three irrigation projects, three mechanized farming
projects, two smallholder development projects in the southern and the western
regions; a livestock marketing project and recently, an agricultural research
project. Projects in other sectors include: two power projects, two educa-
tion projects, a highways project, a domestic aviation project, four railway
projects, a ports project, a technical assistance credit and two credits to
the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1978 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
varies. Most of them have difficulty in getting key materials--cement, motor
fuel and timber, of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery of
equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. There have also been delays in meeting effectiveness conditions,
mainly because of problems in establishing new institutions, completing
necessary legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing agreements.
These problems have been brought to the notice of Government authorities and
efforts are being intensified to help resolve them.
22.       Our lending strategy in Sudan will continue to emphasize agricul-
tural and infrastructure investments. For the near term, and in accordance
with Government's current economic policies (ref. para. 16), more importance
will be placed on infrastructure development and on the rehabilitation and
intensification of existing irrigation schemes. For example, a proposed
project to improve overall production in the existing New Halfa irrigation
scheme has recently been appraised. A second irrigation project on the Blue
Nile is scheduled for appraisal in spring of 1979 and a similar project is
envisioned in the White Nile. This effort is consistent with the two-pronged
strategy of expanding or stimulating production in the modern agricultural
sector and laying the foundation for future production increases in the
traditional agriculture sector. A second phase project to help improve
living standards and production of smallholders in the Southern Region 1/ has
been appraised along with a third power project. Other projects under con-
sideration include a second technical assistance credit, a water supply
project and a fourth mechanized farming project.
1/   The Southern Region comprises the provinces of Bahr El Ghazal, El Buheyrat,
Eastern and Western Equatoria, Jonglei and Upper Nile (see attached map).



- 8 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
23.       Sudan's transport network is very inadequate.  Although the railway
system of 4,800 km is quite extensive, and is the principal means of trans-
porting foreign trade to and from Port Sudan, it is generally inefficient and
fails to meet the demands placed upon it. Of the 16,000 km of roads, only
about 1,500 km are paved, mostly in the Khartoum-Port Sudan corridor. How-
ever an extensive road construction program is underway and the volume of
road transport is increasing rapidly. River transport is the major surface
link to the south, but operational difficulties constrain its efficiency.
Air transport is also unreliable in many respects, mainly because Khartoum
is the only one of the 20 airports which is not subject to closure during
seasonal rains, and only Khartoum, Port Sudan and Juba have night landing
facilities.
24.       In the early 1970s the Government became convinced that adequate and
efficient transport facilities would be critical to its economic development
plans. Since then high priority has been accorded to transportation invest-
ment; this is reflected in the growing volume of public investment in the
transport sector, increasing from under LSd5 million/year during 1966-70 to
around LSd50 million/year since 1974. The rate of investment is expected to
increase even further in the future.
25.       Analyses of the investment needs of the sector over the next 10-15
years have been carried out by the Associates for the Development of Arab
Resources (ADAR) which prepared a transportation master plan for the Sudan
with Kuwait Fund financing, and by an ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy
Mission. With increased inter-modal competition, transportation planning is
becoming more complex. Questions of inter-modal choice, timing of investments
and pricing policies are emerging. Steps have been taken to create an improved
planning capability in the sector, and the Economic Development Institute has
conducted four transportation project analysis courses in Sudan during 1975-78.
The Ministry of National Planning undertook some transport planning studies
in connection with the preparation of the Six-Year development plan, and has
followed this up with additional studies. A planning unit was recently
created in the Ministry of Transport, which will concentrate on the evaluation
of operating and pricing policies in the various modes.
Railways
26.       The Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) continues to be the backbone
of Sudan's internal transportation system, carrying about half of all freight
and passenger movements in the country. However, it operates at a relatively
low level of efficiency, and until recently investment has been limited. As a
result, SRC has not been able to carry all the traffic offered and has been
providing poor service. The Government's response has been threefold: first,
to authorize investment in the railway to eliminate equipment deficiencies and
shortages; second, to commission a detailed analysis of SRC's technical
operations to determine the causes of low efficiency and to plan for improved
training facilities; and third, to authorize investment in other transportation
facilities (an oil pipeline, which was completed in late 1977 and a major
road) to reduce the economy's dependence on the railway system in the critical
Port Sudan-Khartoum traffic corridor.



- 9 -
27.       The analyses of SRC's technical operations, carried out by the
Australian Railways and by a workshop specialist, identified a variety of
operational deficiencies. Training and upgrading of technical skills for
both operations and maintenance are planned to help overcome these deficien-
cies. SRC's recent reorganization is also intended to improve management
responsiveness to day-to-day needs. Recent investments in the railways
included a 50% increase in mainline diesel locomotives, additional shunting
engines, wagons, equipment upgrading and telecommunications. With this
investment, and the investment to be undertaken under the Fourth Railway
Project, approved by the Board in June 1977, SRC's operating efficiency
should improve.
Road Network
28.       With a total road length of about 16,000 km (excluding town roads),
road density is about 1 km per 1,000 persons, the lowest density in Eastern
Africa. There are only about 1,500 km of bitumen paved roads outside the
towns, almost entirely in the important Khartoum - Gedaref-Port Sudan corridor.
Most of the 3,000 km of gravel roads are located in the six southern provinces,
where lateritic material is available. But these are badly in need of rehabil-
itation following almost two decades of neglect during and after the civil
war. About 1,600 km of these roads are presently being rehabilitated with
assistance from Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, Federal Republic of Germany,
IDA and UNDP. The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC), which reports
to the Minister of Transport, is nominally responsible for the national road
network throughout the country, but the SRMCTR is effectively responsible for
the national roads in the Southern region.
29.       Despite the underdeveloped state of the network, road traffic
volumes are considerable and growing rapidly. Traffic counts made in 1974,
during a study financed under the First IDA Highway Project, indicated rela-
tively high flows of over 200 vehicles per day on over half of the 11,000
km surveyed, and flows of over 100 vehicles per day on 85 per cent of the
length surveyed. Trucks dominate, frequently accounting for up to 90% of
total traffic on non-urban roads. The vehicle fleet has almost doubled
since 1970, with the growth in commercial vehicles being particularly rapid
since 1974, when the Government reduced import duties on these vehicles
to encourage development of the trucking industry. The Ministry of National
Planning (MNP) estimates that between 1969/70 and 1974/75 the volume of
road freight almost trebled to 2.6 billion ton/km and road passenger travel
increased by 70% to 5.84 billion passenger/km. The MNP expects both road
freight and passenger traffic to approximately double between 1974/75 and
1982/83.
30.       The existing 1,500 km of bituminous roads are rapidly being ex-
panded. Apart from the Port Sudan-Wad Medani Road, which is expected to cost
in excess of $250 million, other road projects under implementation include
roads to serve major agricultural areas in the Blue Nile region, and the
upgrading of regional access roads in the Nuba Mountain region and in Darfur.
Feasibility and engineering studies for additional components of the trunk
road network are underway and are expected to lead to further major invest-
ment within the next two years. More attention will be given to the need



- 10 -
for secondary and rural access roads as the agricultural investment program
is implemented, but the capacity for maintaining these roads, a provincial
responsibility, is still very limited.
31.        Southern Sudan is served by two methods of moving lower-value
freight--the railway branch to Wau and river transport to Malakal and Juba.
The inadequacies of these services has led to much increased commerce via
roads from Kenya and Uganda, and some road improvements in southern Sudan are
directed to improving these routes. A recently completed study has provided
the basis for planning future investment in roads and river transport and has
identified technical assistance requirements.
Aviation
32.        In view of the size of the country, over 2,000 kilometers long and
1,800 kilometers broad, aviation is likely to play an increasing role and it
offers major advantages compared with the cost of creating alternative surface
transport and travel time involved. To facilitate the use of faster, more
efficient aircraft for more hours per day, the Government decided to upgrade
three southern airports, and Port Sudan airport, the busiest of the regional
airports. It has also acquired new aircraft for domestic services, to expand
the capacity of the Sudan Airways.  The Bank and IDA are financing part of the
airport development program through a loan and a credit made in June 1976.
Ports and River Transport
33.        Port Sudan, the only port in the country, is managed by the Sea
Ports Corporation (SPC). While the port can handle the current level of
foreign trade traffic with some changes in cargo handling methods, the invest-
ment underway and planned elsewhere in the economy dictates the need for
additional port capacity. Two recently completed consultants' studies provide
the basis for investment planning, both at Port Sudan and at Port Suakin, 40
kilometers further south. A Credit of US$22 million was approved in FY78 to
help increase physical capacity of Port Sudan. River transport is generally
inadequate and undeveloped although there would seem to be considerable
potential for improvement. The River Transport Corporation is poorly run
and needs to make better use of its equipment and plant.
Financial Position
34.        Apart from road transport, all modes are owned by public corpora-
tions which are revenue earning enterprises, and which should be able to
contribute to the financing of transportation investments. The largest
corporation is Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC). Between 1972 and 1975 SRC
incurred losses. The causes of the losses were declining traffic, poor
maintenance, sharp cost increases, notably in oil products, and tariff levels
which still reflected Government endeavors to minimize price increases affect-
ing the cost of living. Since July 1975, SRC's financial performance has
improved and in 1976 SRC became profitable again. However the lines extending
to the west and south of the country are likely to operate at a loss until the
traffic volumes on those sections reach higher levels.



- 11 -
35.       Port Sudan has been consistently profitable for several years, and
SPC should be able to generate adequate surpluses to support future expansion
at Port Sudan and to some extent at the proposed new port at Suakin. The
River Transport Corporation has operated for the last ten years at a loss
varying between 20% and 60% of operating costs. The Corporation in the past
has had a virtual monopoly but this is now changing.
36.       Analysis of the Civil Aviation Department's (CAD) revenues and ex-
penses shows that the Department generates a small surplus after depreciation.
After the higher level of investment now underway, CAD is projected to earn
a profit, after depreciation and interest payments, from about 1985. Sudan
Airways, with several years of unprofitable operations, turned the corner
in 1975 and is now projected to generate surpluses adequate to cover its
depreciation and interest payments and pay a dividend to the Government.
Previous Bank Group Operations
37.       Experience in implementing transport projects in Sudan has been
generally satisfactory, except for the persistent problems relating to the
low operational efficiency of the railways, attributable mainly to shortage of
rolling stock, unsatisfactory control of train operations and poor communica-
tions equipment. Railway capacity is expected to increase with the imple-
mentation of the Fourth Railway Project. The new petroleum products pipeline
from Port Sudan to Khartoum will release railway capacity for general freight.
There have been three problems under the First Highway Project. First,
equipment and feasibility studies have cost more than expected, requir-
ing some reduction in project scope, principally by the deletion of detailed
engineering for two future road projects. Second, recruitment of technical
staff was slow and, in the south, technical assistance could not be retained
due to the harsh living conditions. Third, equipment for the south was slow
to arrive and when it did arrive was poorly utilized due to lack of fuel,
spares and workshops. In the proposed project, no repetition of the rapid
cost increases such as occurred in 1974-75 is expected, and it is hoped to
overcome the difficulties in the south by offering more attractive conditions
for technical assistance, particularly by providing housing and by addressing
the factors responsible for slow delivery and poor utilization of equipment.
The Highways Sub-sector
38.       The preceding paragraphs have indicated some of the factors which
have been taken into account in considering the case for further investment
in the highways sub-sector. The Sudan is a vast country, whose economy is
heavily dependent on agricultural production. The large distances mean that
railways will remain competitive with road transportation for much of the
traffic in bulk, low value products such as grain, cotton, oil seeds, sugar
and timber, and for such goods as oils, fertilizers and cement. Similarly,
the large distances mean that air transportation can be very competitive in
terms of price and time for passenger traffic and high value goods. Road
transportation has three principal roles -- in carrying higher value com-
modities, equipment and consumer goods over long distances in increasing



- 12 -
competition with the railways; in meeting the need for transport over shorter
distances in the more highly developed parts of the country; and in providing
transportation into the vast areas lying in between and beyond the main trans-
portation network, particularly by serving railheads.
39.       The evolution of the road network is strongly influenced by the
soil conditions. The northern two-thirds of the country have predominantly
sandy or clay soils on a largely flat terrain. An analysis carried out under
the First IDA Highway Project found that it was, by and large, uneconomic to
construct roads in these conditions until traffic justifies a paved surface.
The clay is virtually impassable in the three to four month wet season, but in
the dry season, vehicles can generally travel without difficulty both on the
sand and on the clay plains. In the south, by contrast, lateritic soils make
road building and maintenance practicable at much lower traffic densities.
40.       The Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim road (along the White Nile), which is the
principal component of the proposed project, crosses an area of mixed clay and
sand, but is situated in one of the prime agricultural areas of the country,
where large investment is in progress, and would serve both local traffic and
long distance traffic approaching or leaving Khartoum from the west and south.
Traffic density is already quite high and is likely to rise steadily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background, Description and Purpose
41.       The project has emerged principally from a study financed under
the First IDA Highway Project and carried out by consultants (Berger/Kampsax;
USA/Denmark). This study provided criteria for selecting and designing road
improvements and proposed a maintenance system and organization for RBPC. The
reorganization of RBPC has already been carried out. Certain features of the
road maintenance system have been initiated, including introduction of axle
weight limitations and an improved capacity to execute maintenance works.
Further development of this system, especially in southern Sudan, would be
a major feature of the proposed project. The Jebel Aulia-Rabak road was
selected in the study as one of the highest priority roads requiring construc-
tion. The feasibility study of this road, together with the Sennar-Damazin
road separately financed by the Arab Fund and Kuwait Fund, was also financed
under the First IDA Highway Project, and was carried out by consultants
(BCEOM, France). Detailed engineering was also carried out by consultants
(Berger/Kampsax). The project was appraised in October 1977 and the report
(No. 1888b-SU, dated December 22, 1978) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The Credit and Project Summary is in the beginning
of this report and a Supplementary Data Sheet is at Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington from November 7-9, 1978 and the Sudan delegation was
headed by Mr. Abdu Mohammed Abdu, Director General of RBPC and supported by
Mr. Srafino Wani, Director of Roads, Southern Region Government.



- 13 -
42.       The proposed project is designed to facilitate the transport and
export of agricultural production; improve accessibility of currently settled
but isolated areas; provide access to new areas of agricultural development;
develop appropriate organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads
Department of SRMCTR, particularly with respect to highway maintenance; and
provide detailbd engineering for future priority roads. It would consist of:
(a)  construction of a two-lane bituminous surfaced road between
Jebel Aulia and Ed Dueim (158 km) including an improved ferry
crossing and two ferries at Ed Dueim and a permanent weighbridge
at a site to be determined;
(b)  Consultancy services for:
(i)  detailed engineering of the Jebel Aulia-Rabak road
(for which retroactive financing is proposed);
(ii)  supervision of construction of the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim
road.
(iii)  detailed engineering of about 500 km of roads yet to be
identified;
(c) assistance in strengthening SRMCTR's Roads Department by
provision of about 348 man-months of expert services
(including housing and vehicles), workshops, offices,
equipment, spares and fuel.
Cost Estimates and Financing
43.       The total project cost at mid-1978 prices is estimated at US$51.7
million equivalent, including provision for contingencies. Of the local costs
of US$10.7 million, about US$2.7 million represent local taxes and duties.
The estimated foreign exchange cost is US$41.0 million, representing 79% of
total project cost including taxes and duties or 84% of total project cost net
of taxes and duties. A 10% physical contingency is provided for all components
except detailed engineering of the Jebel Aulia-Rabak road, which has already
been completed. Price contingencies are provided for in accordance with
current estimates of future escalation rates. Estimated costs for consulting
services average $76,000 per man year. The IDA credit would finance 100% of
the foreign exchange costs. The Government would finance all local costs.
Project Implementation
44.       The RBPC, which is nominally responsible for the national road
network, will be responsible for execution of the project; however, SRMCTR
will be responsible for the Southern Regional components (ref. para. 42(c)).
RBPC is a parastatal organization created in 1973 out of the former Department
of Roads. In 1975, RBPC was reorganized along the lines recommended in the



- 14 -
Berger study, financed under the First Highway Project. RBPC is supervised
by a Board of Directors which reports to the Minister of Transport; generally
it is a well run institution.
45.        SRMCTR is responsible for all transport modes in the Southern Re-
gion; however, it is a weak organization and the project will help strengthen
its Roads Department through a range of special assistance (348 man-months
of technical expertise; buildings, including workshops, housing and offices;
equipment, vehicles and fuel). The composition, terms of reference and
qualifications of technical assistants, as well as the number and type of
equipment were agreed at negotiations (Section 3.02 (b), Credit Agreement
and Supplemental Letter to Credit Agreement).
46.        Since improved highway administration and maintenance capacity is
an important objective of the project, several key decisions, intended to help
achieve this objective, were agreed during negotiations and incorporated into
the legal documents. It was agreed that the Government would, by December 31,
1979, adopt adequate geometric design standards satisfactory to the Association
for road construction (Section 4.04, Credit Agreement). Also, the Government
agreed to prepare and implement a five-year maintenance program for the road
network, which would be updated annually (Section 4.05, Credit Agreement).
Finally, the Government agreed to complete by June 30, 1979 a study currently
in progress on road user taxes and to exchange views with the Association on
plans for implementing the recommendations (Section 4.06, Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
47.        Construction of the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim road will be executed
under a unit price contract awarded after international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Prequalificaton has been completed
and tenders will be sought shortly, with construction expected to begin at
the start of the 1979 dry season and completion by the middle of 1982. The
ferries will be procured through international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. The weighbridge, which is expected to cost
about US$60,000, will be procured from the same source as six other weigh-
bridges to be procured by RBPC.
48.        Supervision of road construction and the carrying out of detailed
engineering will be by consultants employed under terms and conditions agreed
between Government and the Association (Section 3.02(a), Credit Agreement).
The 500 km of yet unidentified roads for which detailed engineering will be
provided will be agreed between the Association and the Government not later
than December 31, 1979 (Section 3.07, Credit Agreement).
49.        Procurement of vehicles and equipment under the Southern Regional
component (ref. para. 42(c)) will be through local and international compara-
tive shopping.   The buildings, estimated to cost about US$920,000, will be
constructed by local contractors following competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association or, if bidding is unsuccessful, by force
account. Spares for existing equipment will be procured from the original
equipment supplier or specialist parts suppliers after comparative shopping.



- 15 -
50.       Proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 79 percent of expenditures on construction of the Jebel-
Aulia-Ed Dueim road (including ferry crossing ramps and
procurement and installation of the weighbridge);
(b) 72 percent of expenditures on civil works for SRMCTR;
(c) 67 percent of expenditures or 100 percent of foreign
expenditures on vehicles, equipment and spare parts for
SRMCTR;
(d) 80 percent of incremental expenditures or 100% of incre-
mental foreign expenditures on fuel for SRMCTR; and
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on all other project
components.
51.       Retroactive financing of US$530,000 is recommended to meet the
foreign exchange component of consultants' fees for the detailed engineering
of the Jebel Aulia-Rabak road, including preparation of tender documents for
the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim road (Schedule 1, Para. 4, Credit Agreement). IDA
financing of year to year increments in foreign exchange expenditures on fuel
by the Roads Department of SRMCTR would be related to the department's perform-
ance in increasing maintenance expenditures in accordance with agreed targets.
For instance, if only 80 percent of the target is met in any year, IDA would
finance only 80 percent of that year's incremental foreign exchange expendi-
tures on fuel. Disbursements for any expenditures under force account for
civil works in the Southern Region would be made against certificates of ex-
penditures, the documentation for which would not be submitted for review but
made available for inspection by the Association during project supervision.
Benefits, Justification and Risk
52.       The road construction component would reduce significantly vehicle
operating costs and travel time in the important Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim corridor.
Apart from serving the east bank of the White Nile, the road would also serve
the western bank via the four ferry crossing points along its length, includ-
ing the one at Ed Dueim, which will be improved under the project. The imme-
diate area of influence, with a population of about 400,000, includes the
western portion of the Gezira irrigation scheme, many small irrigation pump
schemes along the river, and the cotton ginnery at Ed Dueim. Being a trunk
road, it would be fed by important feeder roads running from the south and
west, carrying sorghum, groundnuts, sesame and fish to Khartoum, and consumer
and capital goods from it. The economic rate of return is estimated at 14
percent with a first year rate of return of 11 percent after applying interest
of 10 percent per year to construction costs until 1982/83, the anticipated
opening year of the road. The only benefits incorporated in the rate of
return analysis are savings in vehicle operating costs; these would accrue
in the first instance to road users but would be subsequently passed on in
the form of lower freight rates due to the competitive nature of the trucking
industry.



- 16 -
53.       The project would also yield considerable indirect benefits.  The
detailed engineering of 500 km of roads, which amount to 4% of project cost
would lead to investment decisions which could be expected to yield benefits
similar to those just enumerated. The assistance to SRMCTR should result in
more efficient road administration and maintenance capability in the south,
with consequent savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time.
54.       The major project risk is that construction costs could be higher
than estimated. However, construction costs expressed in constant prices
would have to be 40 percent higher than the cost estimates before the rate
of return would fall below 10 percent. The sensitivity of the rate of return
to the traffic projections has also been tested; traffic growth would have to
be less than half of that assumed (9 percent per year for light traffic and
7 percent per year for heavy traffic throughout the analysis period, up to
year 2002) before the rate of return would fall below 10 percent. Another
risk is that RBPC may fail to maintain adequately the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim
road. However, agreements reached during negotiations on targets for RBPC's
annual maintenance expenditures, and assistance from Arab agencies in imple-
menting RBPC's maintenance program, should help to minimize these risks.
Risks associated with the SRMCTR components include possible difficulties in
attracting and retaining technical assistance, implementation delays and lack
of counterpart funds and staff. However, the project is designed to help
overcome these potential problems through a range of assistance, including
housing and office accommodations, improved conditions of service, funds for
fuel and spare parts, help on procurement matters and training of local staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft supplemental letter
regarding implementation of the Southern Regional component of the project
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special features of the Credit Agreement
are referred to in Section 3 of Annex III.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
February 21, 1979






- 19 -                                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                     Page  1
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REPERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SUDAN                                                  L
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 104.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           2505.8                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     315.0                               MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /     1970 1k ESTIMATE /b      REGION Le  GROUP /d   GROUP IL
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 140.0       170.0     300.0           223.6      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     52.0        130.0     140.0            86.7      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       10.8         13.6      16.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  8.6        11.8      13.2            13.6       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        4.0         6.0       7.0            18.4       42.7        50.8
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND     37.0        46.0      52.0            53.6       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.0 /f     45.0      45.0            44.4       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                        51.0 /f      52.0      52.0            52.7       52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.0 /f      3.0       3.0             2.8        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3         2.3 IR    2.9 LR          2.6        2.7         2.5
URBAN                               ..         5.5       2.2             5.8        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.7         48.9      47.8            46.9       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.7        20.2      17.5            20.6       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.4       3.4             3.1        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..        ..             2.5       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             86.5       100.0    104.5             94.2      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   81.0        72.0      88.0            90.1       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0        63.0 /A  65.1             55.2       56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        23.6      23.1            17.1       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..          ..        ..              ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   41.1         46.1      48.6            43.7       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0          *-     132.0           138.4       82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        19.0      33.0            22.4       31.1        56.8
URBAN                               .,        61.0      59.0            66.3       68.5        79.0
RURAL                               ..        13.0      26.0            10.4       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ,.        16.0      22.0            23.9       37.5        30.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0    100.0             70.3       69.5        45.4
RURAL                               ..         4.0      10.0            14.2       25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         31000.0    14200.0  10880.0           21757.5    9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3030.0 If   1740.0   1360.0          3473.8    2762.5        1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1000.0       930.0    960.0           645.4      786.5        493.9
URBAN                               ..         ..    290.0             172.9      278.4       229.6
RURAL                               ..         ..   2270.0            1292.6    1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..       16.9            19.2       19.2        22.1
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.1       ..              4.9        ..         5.2
URBAN                               ..         5.7  i     ..             5.0        ..          5.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              4.7        ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..         ..         2.0
URBAN                               ..         2.5 Li     *-              *        2.3          1.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        26.4 A      ..              ..       28.3        64.1
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..        67.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       10.3        34.1



- 20 -                                                                ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SUDAN                                                     /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SANE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME          INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  25.0          33.0      34.0              52.1        75.8         99.8
FEMALE                14.0          26.0      25.0              37.6        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0           7.0      14.0               8.0        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                  1.0          4.0        7.9              5.0        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  3.0             1.4 /1    1.0 /1j k         7.2         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.0          47.0      39.0              43.2        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                           20.0         17.0       22.0              22.8        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          13.1         15.0 /1      *-             20.3        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.4          2.0        ..               3.9         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0        79.0         ..              40.1        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          2.9       6.0               2.2        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     4.0           ..        8.0              3.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8              ..        1.4              1.2         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        3700.0      4500.0    4443.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.6          10.2      10.6              32.6        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                86.0         80.0      66.5              73.3        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.2           7.8        7.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  33.0         32.1       31.5             42.0        37.8         33.8
MALE                                   59.1         56.9       55.8             54.8        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                  6.4          6.6        6.7             27.3        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.5        1.7              1.2         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9 /m           ..         ..             25.7        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.1 /m        49.2 /n      ..              55.1        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0 /m          5.1 /n      *-              5.8         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.9 /m         14.5 /n      ..             14.5        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..             108.8       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..      80.0              74.1        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     115.0             124.4       143.7        319.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       70.0             59.6        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      25.0              26.8        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                 ..            ..      85.0              47.6        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Incom  ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   le  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1962;  /5  Due to immigration, population growth rate is lower than
the rate of natural increase;   /h  1972;   Li  1965;  /:  Beginning 1970, the duration of general secondary
education was reduced from 8 to 6 years;   /k   Includes programs of 5 training centers operated by Dept. of
Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Min. of Youth and Sports;   /l  1966;   /m  1963, Ondurman (urban);
/n 1967-68.
September, 1978



- 21 -
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   ANNEX   1
Page 3
Note: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated courtry in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on avuilability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Populatio per hospital bed - total, urban, snd rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilltation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (01$) - GNP per cap  a estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acemmodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sie of household (persons Per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban Population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population ae structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Prixary_chool - total  and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       above tho official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           dlude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Pamily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food comodities.                                       seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
.al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and palse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female1 labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - L'abor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Lifea pertancy at bieth (years) - Ave-ago number of yease  of life                          as pere-ntage of total labor furor.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor farce in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total. male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                oemale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are ITO's adjusted participrtion rates reflecting age-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     Otrutu-re of the population. nod long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Econoic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force on age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable accessj.of that housm.  In cural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TAIRGET GROUPS
Access to e-orota disposal (perc-nt of population) - total, urban, and                 EItimated absolute poverty income level (18$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (totai, urban, aod rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percenLages of their respective populations.  Ecrerta                        outritionally adequate diet plus  ssentiul npn-food requirements is not
disposal may isclude the c-llection a-d disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of huonu  excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Esciisted relative-2yerty incc level (usS por capita) - urban and rural -
ar the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poserty income level is that income leel less Lhar one-third
Population per pivu-ciac - Population divided by number of pr-torcing                       per capita personal in-ot.e of tho cocot-.
physicians qualified from a medical school at uncversity level.                       Estimated population below poverty incase level (perceot) - ur-bu  and rural -
Population par nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of populution (urban and crucc) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical ourses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social taca Division
Economic Analysis a-d Projectios- Dopurtment



A
- 22                              ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH C%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.     _                           1970-75            1965 -70           1972
ONP at Market Prices          4,438.6    100.0                           4.5
Gross Domestic Investment       839.0     18.9                          11.4
Gross National Saving           391.6      8.8                           4.9
Current Account Balance        -519.0     11.7
Exports of Goods, NFS           696.0     15.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,304.0     29.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor Forcel/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$T m-         -                                                 us $ Mln.
Agriculture                   1,782.7     43.9
Industry                        529.4     13.0
Services                      1,748.5     43.1
Unallocated
Total/Average
r7h39t0    100.0                   ..                              ..         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                              Central Government
M Hln.)      % of GDP                     (Lo19 Ml         __
1977 -       197         196 -7                  1976o7  FY 197P       FY Ld-7n
Current Receipts                                                                    394          22.5         21.2
Current Expenditure                                                                 396.6        22.6         19.7
Current Surplus                      -                                                            97-1.8  .
Capital Expenditures 3/                                                             159.4         9.1           7.9
External Assistance (net)                                                            22.1         1.2           3.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                FY1971        FY1972       FY1973       FY1974      FY1975      FY1976    FY1977
(Million    outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     130.6         146.2      190.9        245.2       292.4       368.2      515.4
Bank credit to Public Sector              112.2        139.6       152.6        196.5       329.4       431.5     595.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector              83.9         98.9       113.9        141.9       206.6       250.9     287.6
(Percentagea or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          20.8          18.7       21.9         22.2         20.1       24.2       29.3
General Price Index (1970 - 100)4/        108.2         120.9      141.6        178.6       221.4       225.1      271.7  5/
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index            *            1.4          11.7       17.1         26.1        24.0         1.6       20.7
Bank credit to Public Sector               24.5          24.4        9.3         28.8        67.6        31.0       37.9
Bank credit to Private Sector               6.1          17.9       15.2         24.6        45.6        21.4       14.6
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.                                                                                I
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (Includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
I Refers to low salaried cost of living index.
(Less than Lsd 500 per annum).                 .. not available
5/ Refers to the first three quarters.              . not applicable
EA2DB
December 7, 1978



- 23-                                                         AbNEX I
BULU    OF PAJi  U'NT            ASSIJACE AND15 DID3T
tammsnte  in ailionae of 1.ST dollrse at current price.)
Avg. Annual
Actual              96            tissated                                  Projected                          Growth Rate
1974        1975         1976         1977                       1 78  '      179-         19 80       19,85        197/ -198D
SU5AR1T BAIANCS OF PJAIDTS
Exports (in.l. NS)                     458.0       515.0       696.0        782.0                        840.1       966.3      1125.7       2181.9         16.2
881.0      1202.0      1304.0       1492.0                       1555.6      1650.8      17           3077.          12.2
prts_ icl. NFS                      -430        -670        -080         -1.0__
Reso-urce BaAoce (1-bi-8                                      -528.0        -790.0                       755         685        -293           854
Interest (net                         -19.0        -54.0      -50             90                       -161.8       -185.6     -197.9        -255.2         46.0
Other Factor Payments
Direot Tnvastslent Iencso5             -11.0        -2.0       -47.0        -34.0                                        -          -
Workers' Remittance A/                  30.0       102.0       178.0         259.0                       274.6        291.0      3089.5        412.8        47.0
3.0          -         10.0         37.0                         47          44.8        4.            79.       ..)8._Q
ourrast Transfers (not)                             -           ---62.                                              -3.3        -469.3        -5.5
Balance on Curren  Accounts           -420.0       641.0       319.0        -527.0                      -562.1      -532.3       46_9.5       _658.5
Private Direct InvestDebt                 -                       -             -                         10.0         30.0       50.0          88.1           -
Orficial  Capital Crantv t               6.0         32.0       21.0          20.0                        20.0         50.0       53.0          70.9         44
'Pubicia  Capita Loam
Public sbus   Loans                    552.0       424.0       379.0         132.0                       321.6        407.7      390.2         251.3         -3.0
-40.0  ~~75wo ~~U960  -141.0 ~ ~218.2                        -229.0      -265.        -530.9         37.0
;Re  amemnts                          512.0       349.0       260.0          -9.0                       103.4        178.7      124.3         ,79.6        21.0
Other MkLT Loans
Disbursements                                                                                                -  -  -  -
-Repayments                                                                                                           _         
Net Disbursements
Capital Transactions n.e.i.  b/       -135.0       -102.0     -134.0       -516.0                          -            -          -
Change in Net Reserve   (-increase)   350           362.0      104.0                                     -12.7        -14.3      _-15.9       _-50.3
Actual                 Esti.ated
GRANT AND LCAN CONM14Th81s                                                                    DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE           1974    197      197              19_L
Official Grants & Grant-like            35.0         32.0       21.0         20.0          Public Debt out. 6 Disbursed   723.0   1290.8   1604.6           1731.9
Public MLT I..ane                                                                             Interest on PFblic Debt        20.6      56.8     65.0  1/      84.0  1/
TOPS                                    -            -        20.0         12.0            Repayments on Public Debt       37.9     75.2    119.0  I/    141.Q  1!
IDA                                   35.0         60.0       13.0         25.0            Total Public Debt service       79.1    132.0    184.0          225.0  I
Otber                                              35.5       69.5          5.8            Other Debt Service (net)
Other Multilateral                    81.0         30.8       50.9         29.7            Total Debt Service (net)        79.1    132.0    104.0  1/    225.0  1/
Govrnm.ents                          176.0        166.7      318.9        366.2
Suppliers                             32.0        161.4        25,9        24.4          Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Financial Institutions               397.0           -           -           -
Bonds                                                                                      Public Debt Service             22.0      16.0     19.3          19.8
Public Loans.n.e.i.                  -                                     _-               Total Debt Service
Tntat. Public MkLT loans                720.6       454.5      498.2        463.1            TDS+Dicect Invest. Inc.         25.7      25.7     28.4          30.1
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1977                    Ayerage Term. of Public Debt
EZrRINAL 0893                     Disbusm'ed O.'l-            eRce t L
I881D                                                                                        lo-- T.rit. as 7% Prior Year DO&D  5.4     4.4      4.1           4.9
TDA                                      95.8                     5.5                        Aeot. as *, Prior Year DO6D   10.1        10.2      11.5         13.0
Other MAltilateral                      104.9                     6.1
Governments                             864.9                    49.9                       I8RD Debt Out. & Dtsbursed
Suppliers                               225.6                    13.0                         "a     Public Debt O0D         11t.2      6.2       3.8           2.5
Financial Institutions                  380.2                    22.0                         " as % Public Debt Service      19.8      8.9       6.2           4.9
B3onds
Public Debts n.e.i                                                 -                        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Total Public M&LT Debt                 1731.6                   100.0                           ..as % Public Debt 040         2.5       2.6      4.4           5.5
as 7. Public Debt Service      0.5      0.2       0.8           1.2
Other M&T Debts
Short-ter. Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                  - nil or negligible
not available                                   a/ Th.es figurna  c-ree.pond to a sissioi   e ati-eS (which visited Sodan in May 1970) of ieports
,,. not available sFarateiy                             under the nil value.
but included in total                          b/ Includes arrears on external paynents.
f/ Fig,res refer to debt service paYments act.ally due.
EA2DB
De-esber 1978



- 24 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of December 31, 1978)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellation)
Credit No.       Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                   127.2   12.4
Credit 122       1968   Sudan       Education I                       8.5        1.1
Credit 311       1972   Sudan       Mechanized Farming II            11.3        5.3
Credit 331       1972   Sudan       Highway I                         7.0        0,6
Credit 364       1973   Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                 42.0       Nil
Credit 364-1    1975   Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)               20.0      18.8
Credit 447       1973   Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan I        4.0        0.2
Credit 457       1974   Sudan       Railways III                     24.0       5.5
Credit 476       1974   Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Project                   10.7 2/    2.4
Credit 547       1975   Sudan       Education II                     10.0        9.4
Credit 564       1975   Sudan       Power II                         23.0       2.6
Credit 589       1975   Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II    7.0           4.0
Credit 614       1976   Sudan       Technical Assistance              4.0       3.4
Credit 643       1976   Sudan)                                        9.0       8.8
Loan 1287T       1976   Sudan)      Domestic Aviation        20.0    -          20.0
Credit 718       1977   Sudan       Savannah Development             17.0      17.0
Credit 727       1977   Sudan)                                        8.0       8.0
Loan 1467T       1977   Sudan)      Railway IV               12.0    -          12.0
Credit 781       1978   Sudan       Port                             22.0      22.0
Credit 782 3/   1978   Sudan        Livestock Marketing              25.0      25.0
Credit 804 31   1978   Sudan        Mechanized Farming III           16.0      16.0
Credit 834 31   1978   Sudan        Agricultural Research            15.0      15.0
Total                                                   159.2  295.9      197.1
of which repaid                                       73.3    6.5
Total now outstanding                                    85.9  289.4
Amount sold                              5.8
of which repaid                       5.8               -
Total held by Bank & IDA 1/                             85.9  289.4
Total Undisbursed                                        32.0  165.1     197.1
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes grant participation by Norway $5.35 million, of which $.8 million
is undisbursed.
3/   Not yet effective.



-25-                      ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                  (Amount in US$ Million)
Year               Obligor                              Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and
1972      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co. Textiles    1.9         0.3     2.2
1976      Cotton Textile Mills                           8.7      1.3    10.0
1977      Seleit Livestock                              11.2      1.1    12.3
1978      Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.                6.7      1.4     8.1
Total gross commitments                       28.5     4.1    32.6
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales:                       6.8       -      6.8
Total commitments now held by IFC            21.7      4.1    25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                     10.1      0.8    10.9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122    First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Implementation of the project is about five years behind the
original 1968 appraisal schedule. An additional six months (to June 30, 1979)
will be required to finalize work and fully disburse the credit proceeds.
Delays in project implementation are mainly due to: insufficient managerial
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3
skill of the local c,',  orks contractors, lack of adequate local financing,
shortage of construction materials and inadequate staff in the Project Imple-
mentation Units (PIUs). Furniture and equipment procurement as well as the
technical assistance co-nnorcent are all basically completed.
Credit No. 547    Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is 15 to 20 months behind the original 1975 appraisal
schedule. The delay is due to the lack of a viable construction industry and
the weakness in project management. A plan of action is being developed to
improve physical execution. Close monitoring of the project is to continue.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 million Credit
of June 12., 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
Since October 1977, the total number of farms allocated has remained
stable at about 245 (87% of appraisal estimate). The road construction pro-
gram has made little progress due in part to difficulties in getting spare
parts for MFC's heavy equipment. The building construction program is also
making slow progress due to an overall shortage of cement. MFC's staffing
situation has deteriorated. Twelve out of thirty-three senior and middle
level staff positions are vacant, including Director of Finance, Commercial
Manager and an Internal Auditor.  The high turnover of staff also remains
difficult as project salaries can neither compete with the Sudanese private
sector nor with job opportunities in the Gulf States.  Repayment of loans
by farmers remains unsatisfactory - below 60% and 15%, respectively at both
Sim Sim and Umm Seinat. Explanations given by management include adverse
climatic conditions and unwillingness by farmers to repay loans received.
Repayment at Habila is said to be satisfactory however, - more than 95%.
The Tozi Farm Machinery Training Center has made some progress. Management
is now concentrating on the water supply problem.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 20,
and            1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-1           and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production in
1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15% of the total project area of
300,000 fd). Cotton yields for the first year -- 2.5 metric tons per hectare --
were already close to the appraisal estimate -- 2.7 t/ha -- for full project
development. In 1978, the irrigated and cultivated area was extended to a
total of about 127,000 fd (40% of total project area), short of the planned
target of 200,000 fd. Further delays are expected in project implementation;
this may necessitate a reassessment of the project size or the deferment of
some non-essential project components. The cofinancing agencies have agreed



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4
on a revised allocation of credit disbursement and the Government has been
asked to communicate its views on the financing gap. Despite the current
difficulties, the project remains sound and economically justified.
Credit No. 476   Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project;
US$10.7 million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is making progress with construction of infrastructure
components. Most of the senior staff positions have been filled, almost
entirely with expatriates. The project continues to suffer from a shortage
of local counterparts for expatriates and supporting staff, especially for
administration and accounting. The implementation of several components
of the project has been delayed. Government services have been seriously
impaired by an election campaign and shortage of fuel.  The   project's
foodcrop development component has made good progress, especially at the main
crop station at Yei, where crop trials have shown promising results and
increased quantities of improved seeds have been produced. The cotton spraying
program has started but the project suffered a major setback because the
agency responsible for purchasing cotton delayed purchase of the crop last
season due to financial problems and shortage of fuel. Sales of coffee
seedlings have exceeded targets. The road construction unit started construc-
tion only in March and progress has been slow.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
approved on May 31, 1977; Effective Date: August 31,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project was declared effective on August 31, 1978, about one
year later than scheduled. The project is being implemented by the newly
established Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC), which is also
responsible for the ODM/Abu Dhabi funded Southern Darfur Rural Development
Project, putting heavy demands on this organization and the poor infrastruc-
ture of this province. Delays in project start and unforeseen cost increases
in building construction will result in higher project costs than estimated,
requiring possible reductions in project scope and rephasing. Because of
the physical and financial constraints, WSDC has been requested to prepare
proposals to deal with these difficulties.
Credit No. 331   Highway Project; US$7.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: February 6, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Due to escalation of costs for equipment purchases and feasibility
studies, the project's scope had to be reduced to keep it within the original
credit amount. Major components of the project have been completed; progress
on the balance of the project and compliance with the covenants of the Credit
Agreement are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 million Credit of
_January 31, 1974; Effective Date:  July 29, 1974;
o'ion  Date:  December 31, 1979
After some initial delays, procurement is now well underway for
the Railway and Sea Ports Corporations and essentially complete for the River
Transport Corporation. The arrival of 50 new diesel locomotives in 1975
enabled the railway to reverse temporarily the declining trend in its freight
traffic. Traffic carried increased from 2,275 million ton-km in 1975 to
2,703 million ton-km in 1976 but dropped from 2,479 million ton-km in 1977.
The decline in goods traffic during 1977 resulted from the low availability
of locomotives partly due to a shortage of spare parts and lack of efficient
maintenance capability. Passenger traffic increased by 10.9% in 1977 in
terms of passenger-km. Progress towards the operational objectives for the
railway has been slow.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railways Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Credit No. 727   January 12, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Preparation of specifications and bidding documents is now in
progress. Co-financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund,
Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Development Fund; confirmation of these co-
financing arrangements are conditions of effectiveness. Effectiveness is
expected shortly.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 9, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The completion of design and the preparation of tender documents
have been delayed by the Borrower. Contracts for construction cannot be
anticipated prior to June 1979. Negotiations for bilateral financing regard-
ing the Southern Regional airport in Juba, have not been finalized.
Credit No. 447    Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$4.0 million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 589    US$7.0 million Credit of November 11, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The first Credit 447 has been almost fully committed and disbursed.
Under the second Credit 589, US$4.6 million has been committed and US$2.9
million disbursed.



- 29-                       ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program, but delays in award of contracts for civil works at the
Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and delayed mobilization
by PEWC's staff for civil works at the Juba diesel station are likely to delay
commissioning of the Project by about two years. The project cost estimate
is now 38% higher than at appraisal and the Government has received a loan
of about US$9.0 million from the OPEC Special Fund to help meet the foreign
exchange cost overrun. PEWC is proposing average increases of 60% in elec-
tricity tariffs and 80% in water supply tariffs. The Government has indicated
that it will consider these proposals and take a decision soon. In August
1978, the Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of directors,
removed PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced them with
the ministerial undersecretaries related to PEWC.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established and
progress has been good.
Credit 781         Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;Effective
Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is designed to expand the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and will include mechanization of cargo handling and
movement, improvement of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of
bulk, container and roll on/roll off facilities. An advance of US$500,000
was approved from the Project Preparation Facility to enable SPC to engage
consultants for detailed tendering documentation to permit timely procurement
of both civil works and equipment. Cofinancing of this project has been pro-
vided by the UK, Germany and the Kuwait Fund.
Credit No. 782    Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
With the objective of developing organized livestock marketing
country-wide, the Project provides market and transport infrastructure,
technical assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the
Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the
project. The Ministry of Overseas Development of the United Kingdom has
submitted for approval the names of the six members of a technical assistance



- 30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7
team.  The Director General of LMMC, was promoted to Minister of State for
Agriculture, and his successor is not yet selected.  LMMC has already taken
over the operation of five main livestock markets in the Project area.
Credit No. 804    The Third Mechanized Farming Project: US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; not yet effective; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
The project objectives are to (a) help present users of mechanized
farming methods to become more productive, and (b) support programs designed
to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These objectives
will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension activities
of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive trials and
related research, access road building, importation of spare parts for the
mechanized dryland farmers, and reorganization and strengthening of the MFC.
Credit No. 834    Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit of
July 27, 1978; not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and expand support services at
ARC's new Khartoum headquarters. The research program would be concerned with
integrated livestock and crop production systems; pure livestock production
systems and water and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project.
Technical          Planning Assistance and Training; US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance         Effective Date:  July 1, 1977; Termination Date:
December 30, 1980
This technical assistance projec   Junded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of sevet idvisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, se toral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but have
become involved in the development of a provincial planning capability. The
project is making satisfactory progress.



- 31 -                      ANNEX III
SUDAN
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Thirty months
.
(b) Preparation by: Consultants (i) BCEOM (France),
feasibility report;
(ii) Berger International
& Kampsax Int., (USA/Denmark)
detailed engineering.
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: January 1975
(d) First Bank Mission: January 1975
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  October 1977
(f) Negotiations: November 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   May 15, 1979
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
TII.   Special Conditions
(a)  The Government agreed to prepare and implement a five year
maintenance program for the road network, which would be
updated annually (para. 46).
(b)  The Government agreed to complete by June 30, 1979 a study
currently in progress on road user taxes and to exchange
views with the Association on plans for implementing the
recommendations (para. 46).
,,                   (c)  The Government agreed to adopt by December 31, 1979
adequate geometric design standards satisfactory to the
Association for road construction (para. 46).






V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   A    '3 
(; ;:; i; 0  ;             a              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V  V H 0
NK ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
X   [ i d   t           1;     X   N   V   j   O   a   E   o   >   >   N   E   3   H   1   u   O   N  3 I'
~~I- a    EON
, ' N ,3r   N)   >a                T\NWS }-. N
-t    4J~~)  /~F~771- 13
SZP          /                        VE L GHOIHI ON



