Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22280-MK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.2 MILLION AND
CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.3 MILLION (US$13.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FORA
WATER UTILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 1, 2001
Infrastructure Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
I MKD = US$0.0154
US$1 = 64.8 MKD
FISCAL YEAR
January -- December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD                          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR                           Economic Rate of Return
EU                            European Union
FMS                           Financial Management System
LAS                           International Auditing Standards
IBRD                          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                           International Competitive Bidding
IFAC                          International Federation of Accountants
KfW                           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KH                            Komuna]na Higiena (Solid Waste Collection Company)
LPA                           Local Project Account
lpcd                          liters per capita day
I/s                           liters per second
MEAP                          Municipal and Environmental Action Program
MOF                           Ministry of Finance
MTC                           Ministry of Transport and Communication
N.B.F.                        Not Bank-financed
NCB                           National Competitive Bidding
NEAP                          National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV                           Net Present Value
OC                            Operating Company (new operating company in Skopje)
PIP                           Project Implementation Plan
PMR                           Project Management Reports
PMU                           Project Management Unit
PPF                           Project Preparation Facility
PSP                           Private Sector Participation
PU                            Project Unit
SCG                           Skopje City Government
SLA                           Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOE                           Statement of Expenditure
SV                            Skopje Vodovod (Water and Sewerage Company)
TOR                           Terms of Reference
UFW                           Unaccounted for Water
VAT                           Value-Added Tax
Vodovod                       Water and Sewerage Company
Vice President:          Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:              Christiaan Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:             Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sudipto Sarkar, ECSIN



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
WATER UTILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           20
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          26
4. Institutional                                                                      26
5. Environmental                                                                      28
6. Social                                                                             30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 33
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     33
2. Critical risks                                                                     34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     36



G. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            36
2. Other                                                                              36
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   54
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               60
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       65
Annex 6A: Financial Management Arrangements                                              73
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   79
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            82
MAP(S)
IBRD 30457



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Water Utility Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECS1N
Date: June 1, 2001                                Team Leader: Sudipto Sarkar
Country Manager/Director: Chistiaan J.Poortman    Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P038395                               Sector(s): WVU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee       ( Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): IBRD Loan - US$ 16.2 million; IDA Credit - SDR 10.3 million (US$ 13.1 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75 %                           Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      13.10           0.00          13.10
IBRD                                                           2.60           13.60         16.20
IDA                                                            3.00           10.10         13.10
Total:                                                        18.70          23.70         42.40
Borrower: FYR MACEDONIA
Responsible agency: MOTC; SKOPJE VODOVOD; SKOPJE KOMUNALNA HIGIENA
Project Management Unit (PMU) in Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC)
Address: Crvena Skopska Opstina No. 4, 1000 Skopje
Contact Person: Ms. Biljana Zdradeva; Assistant Minister
Tel: 389 2 128 200               Fax: 389 2 118 144                Email: Biljanaz@mol.com.mk
Other Agency(ies):
Project Unit, Skopje Vodovod i Kanalizacija (Vodovod)
Address: Lazar Licenovski 27, 1000 Skopje
Contact Person: Mr. Aleksandar Ivanovic, Technical Manager
Tel: 3892220839                Fax: 3892116776                   Email: jpvoka@unet.com.mk
Project Unit, Komunalna Higiena (KH)
Address: Street 126 No. 40, 1000 Skopje
Contact Person: Mr. Georgi Delov, Manager
Tel: 389 2 229 039            Fax: 389 2 221 060              Email:



Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
2g:'20 00            W~500  9.00  900      3.0,6;+,
Annual    3.00  |    5.00 |    9.00       9.00      3.300
Cumulative    3.00       8.00     17.00     26.00     29.30
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Anmex 1)
The development objectives of the project are to: (i) improve the operational efficiency of the Skopje
Vodovod, the largest water and wastewater utility in the country, to enable it to provide quality service at
affordable prices to the population; and (ii) provide a sound basis for the future development of the solid
waste sector in Skopje. The first objective will be met through a lease contract which will introduce the
private sector to address institutional, technical, commercial and financial issues. The second objective will
be achieved through the preparation of a strategy and action plan for the future development of the Skopje
solid waste sector, and financing of the most urgently needed investments to replace worn-out equipment
and to extend solid waste services to under-served and low-income areas of the city.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
In regard to water and wastewater services, the engagement of a private sector utility operator (the
Operator), through international competitive selection, is expected to result in substantially improved
management, operations and financial performnance of the Skopje water and wastewater utility.  Key
performance indicators for the Operator stipulate the minimum expected standards of service quality and
delivery at affordable prices to the population. The key service performance indicators are:
*   provision of a 24-hour supply of water, at standards and levels that meet the requirements of the
applicable Macedonian regulations, to all consumers by December 2005;
i tariffs maintained at levels that cover operating and investments costs and are affordable; and
i Seventy and ninety percent of consumers in June 2003 and December 2005, respectively, satisfied with
water and wastewater services (current level of satisfaction is sixty percent). The customer satisfaction
would be determined through surveys.
For solid waste services, the key performance indicators are:
*   preparation of a comprehensive solid waste management strategy and action plan by June 30, 2002
which will specify private sector participation (PSP) options;
* regular waste collection services to 100% of the city's households by December 2005; and
* working ratio (ratio of expenses over revenues) not higher than eighty five and eighty three percent in
June 2003 and December 2005, respectively.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20529             Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/17/00
The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, FY99-01) for FYR
Macedonia and is included as a specific operation under the lending programn. A major objective in the
CAS is the promotion of private sector growth in the country. For the infrastructure sector, the CAS
emphasizes the need to: (i) increase the quality and efficiency of public utilities; and (ii) promote
-3 -



privatization and restructuring in the sector. The project is designed to support the CAS objective through
(i) restructuring of the Skopje Vodovod, including transferring management and operational responsibility
to a private operator, and (ii) the preparation of a strategy and action plan for the development of the
Skopje solid waste sector, which will include an assessment of the possibilities for early private sector
participation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main issues in Macedonia's water supply and sanitation, and solid waste sectors were identified in the
context of the preparation of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) that was jointly prepared by
the Bank and the Macedonian authorities in early 1997 and through subsequent sector analyses carried out
during project preparation.
(a) Water and Wastewater Sector
In summary, the principal issues related to the water and wastewater sector can be categorized under the
following three categories:
1.    Uneven Distribution of Water Resources: The water resources in the country are unevenly spread
with the westem part having more water than the other parts. Due to the uneven distribution, in the
summer months there are shortages of water for agriculture in certain areas of the country. However, the
availability of water for domestic or industrial consumption is not a major issue. To address the
agricultural water shortage, the Govemment has recently developed a Master Plan for water resources
management. The plan includes specific recommendations such as constructing dams, reservoirs, and bulk
water transmission systems. However, these measures are expensive and priorities would have to be
established for the implementation of the recommendations and to ensure water allocation decisions take
into account economic considerations. Currently, the Govemment is exploring the possibility of receiving
bilateral assistance to finance the investments defined in the Master Plan.
2.     Lack of Wastewater Treatment: There are at present only three wastewater treatment plants in the
country (in Ohrid/Struga, Prespa and Dojran). The Government recognizes the importance of wastewater
treatment plants to reduce potential public health risks and improve environmental conditions in line with
EU water quality guidelines. A Master Plan has been prepared which prioritizes investments related to
wastewater based on water use and targets for pollution reduction. The Master Plan recommends the
construction of wastewater treatment plants in Skopje, Bitola, Prilep and Strumica as a priority. However,
currently there are no major public health hazards related to wastewater, and the investment and operation
costs related to wastewater treatment are not affordable to the consumers.  As a result, although
wastewater is collected in most urban areas, it is not treated. However, drinking water quality is good since
the water sources are typically unpolluted mountain springs.
The Government recognizes that; as the economy grows and the country moves closer to EU integration,
consumers incomes' would increase and it would progressively become possible to raise tariffs to pay for
wastewater treatment investments. Further, as the financial position of the water and wastewater utilities
improves through better operations in the water sector, wastewater treatment investments would become
more economically and financially feasible. Thus, the Government is following an approach that aims first
to improve the operations of the utilities, and later, to focus on investments related to wastewater treatment
as and when they become affordable. The Government is also seeking grant financing from donors for
technical assistance related to wastewater projects and small scale investments for wastewater treatment.
- 4 -



3.     Inadeguate Utility Operations: About 65% of the Macedonian population is served by 31 urban
water utilities which are owned by the local municipalities. The remaining 35% of the population is served
by rural pipeline systems or through individual connections to wells. These public utilities have inadequate
institutional capacity, do not have adequate incentives to run efficient operations, and face chronic financial
difficulties. As a result, the quality of services to the consumers suffers. The main issues related to utility
operations are summarized below:
*   Institutional:  Macedonian water and wastewater utilities were typically organized as
departments of the municipalities that they served. Although there has been an increasing trend
towards establishing the utilities as independent municipal enterprises, as in Skopje, the
utilities do not function as fully autonomous, commercially-oriented companies. In many
cases, utilities that function as municipal departments also have to provide services that are not
directly related to the water sector, e.g services related to solid waste management and street
cleaning. Most utilities have experienced technical staff who are reasonably familiar with
modem operational techniques. However, there is a lack of incentives in the utilities to
improve commercial and financial performance to levels found in comparable Westem
European utilities. The role of the private sector in the delivery of water and wastewater
services has so far been extremely limited. Productivity of employees is low as a result of
over-employment, reflecting to a large extent the lack of altemative employment opportunities
due to economic conditions in the country. It is common to find more than eight employees
per 1,000 water connections in Macedonian water and wastewater utilities which is high
compared to a corresponding figure of two or three employees in Westem European utilities.
*   Financial and Commercial: Most utilities suffer from chronic cash flow constraints arising
from the combined effect of the following factors:
i) Low Tariffs: Tariffs are approved and set by the local governments at levels that are
intended to cover operational expenses but are not adequate for a satisfactory maintenance
and replacement program. In the past, investments have been financed by the Govenmment
and not from the internal cash generation of the utilities. In the last decade, due to
budgetary constraints, the Govemment has not been able to contribute towards
investments. Further, the utilities have not been able to raise tariffs due to affordability
considerations since consumers' incomes have been low. As a result, investments in the
sector have been limited, and essential rehabilitation and maintenance work have often
been deferred.
ii) Low Collection Rates: Most connections are metered and domestic water consumption
rates are not high (typically less than 140 liters per capita day). However, the bill
collection rates, especially from the institutional and large industrial consumers, have
steadily dropped in the last decade. As a result, substantial arrears of receivables have
been built up, in many cases with a concurrent build up of payables to the utilities'
suppliers and other creditors. When arrears are included, it is not uncommon to find
utilities collecting only about 60% or lower of the total outstanding amounts. Due to
political and social constraints, the utilities have not been able to aggressively pursue
disconnection of services as a means to ensure bill payment. A further disadvantage has
been the lack of clear provisions under the existing Water Law which leads to protracted
legal procedures for service disconnection of nonpaying consumers. Administrative losses
have also increased in the last decade, on average, to about 25% of the water produced.
- 5 -



iii) Network Deterioration/lInefficiency: Rehabilitation and maintenance of the water and
wastewater network have been neglected for the last decade due to the weakening financial
position of the utilities. This has led to situations where large sections of the infrastructure
have deteriorated rapidly resulting in water losses through bursts and leaks. The network
is also not well managed and, often, inadequate pressure zoning leads to unnecessary high
pressures in certain areas resulting in increasing bursts and leaks.  Better network
management through optimal pressure zones would reduce the losses. Rehabilitation is
also needed in the sewer systems to address public health concems such as
cross-contamination with drinking water pipes. There have also been cases of wastewater
overflow, creating environmental concerns, in pumping stations that are obsolete and not
well run. The increases in physical and administrative water losses have led to high levels
of unaccounted-for-water (UFW) - the percentage of water not billed to water produced.
In some Macedonian utilities, UFW levels are as high as 60% compared to levels of less
than 20% in well-run Westem European utilities.
iv) High Staff Costs: The utilities are burdened with excess labor. The share of
employee-related expenses can be as high as 60% in the total operating expenses. Political
and social considerations do not allow the utilities to lay off employees. In well-run
utilities, employee expenses are nomnally less than 25% of the operating expenses which
indicate that there is a clear opportunity for the Macedonian utilities to improve their
internal cash generation by downsizing their labor force.
The Govemment's strategy is to continue to support the decentralization of responsibilities for the provision
of water and wastewater services to the municipalities. This implies that the municipalities and their
utilities will have to take the lead in improving operational efficiency and financing investments.  The
Government has drafted a Law on Water Supply, Drainage, and Treatment of Urban Wastewater which
seeks to address some of the issues raised above by enabling the municipalities and the utilities to undertake
autonomous operations. The draft Law was submitted to the Parliament for approval in April 2001.
(b) Solid Waste Sector
The main issues in regard to the management of solid waste generated from households are listed below.
1.    Inadequate Enforcement. Recently adopted laws on public works, waste management, and public
hygiene provide a sound background for waste management in the country. Modifications, however, would
be necessary to bring the above laws in line with EU legislation and policy. There is no urgent need for the
modifications which can take place in the medium to long term as the country moves towards EU
integration. In spite of the legal framework, collection of solid waste is not efficient and illegal dump sites
can be noticed throughout the country. These illegal dump sites would not be used if there was greater
enforcement of the law which requires that enterprises that collect, transport, and store wastes take
adequate precautions to protect public health. The responsibility of solid waste management lies with
municipal enterprises and there is wide variation in the standards and performance of each enterprise.
2.     Lack of Proper Landfills.  Illegal dumping also occurs due to the lack of sanitary facilities
available to the citizens to dispose wastes in an environmentally safe manner. There are about 25 known
landfills in the country. However, with the notable exception of the Drisla landfill in Skopje, landfills are in
general not designed well which leads to inadequate draining of leachates and generation of potentially
explosive gases on site. Typically these landfills are constructed on alluvial or karst soil, creating the
potential for groundwater contamination through migration of leachates.  There are no systematic
- 6 -



monitoring programs, and as a result, the effects of the landfills on groundwater, soil and air are not
known. In smaller towns and villages, wastes are disposed in an unplanned manner at different locations
around the town. In some cases, solid waste is disposed near national parks, lakes, and stream creating
environmental hazards.
3.     Inadequate Utility Operations: Solid waste collection and landfill operations are carried out by
utilities that still function largely as municipal departments. As in the case of other municipally-owned
utilities, they face chronic financial constraints resulting from the combined effect of low tariffs, low
revenue collections, and higher than warranted operating expenses caused by excessive labor forces,
shortages of operating equipment, and low equipment productivity due to inadequate maintenance. The
present legal structure allows the public municipal enterprise to contract with the private sector for waste
management. However, so far, the role of the private sector in solid waste management has been limited.
The Government has completed a review of the institutional and policy changes that would be necessary in
the existing legal framework to make it more in line with EU norms and standards. In this context to
strengthen enforcement, the Government is considering the establishment of an 'Office of Solid Waste
Regulator' which would supervise the operations of the municipal enterprises responsible for solid waste
management. While there is recognition that more sanitary landfills are necessary in the country, the
present level of tariffs cannot support the construction of landfill engineered to remove environmental risks.
As the economy revives and the need to conform to EU guidelines increase, it is likely that more sanitary
landfills would be constructed. Regarding the inefficiency of utility operations, the Government's role is
limited to enforcement. It is the municipal enterprises that have to take the initiative to make the companies
run in a more sustainable manner.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a) Water and Wastewater Sector
Water resource management issues are not addressed under the project since the Government is already
seeking bilateral donor support for this purpose. The ongoing Bank-supported Irrigation Project is helping
to address some water resource issues.
Regarding wastewater treatment, while the needs are important, investments in the sector are not
economically and financially feasible at present due to affordability considerations. As part of project
preparation, the Bank analyzed the feasibility of constructing wastewater treatment plants in some of the
candidate participating cities such as Bitola and Prilep. However, it was assessed that tariff levels would
have to be very substantially increased (e.g. by at least 150%) to make the investments financially feasible.
Given the prevailing levels of consumers' incomes, such high tariff levels are not affordable, as was
confirmed by the social assessments during project preparation. Although the project is not financing any
wastewater treatment investments, during supervision the Bank will continue to provide advice to the
Government on wastewater issues, and will help to seek and coordinate donor assistance.
In regard to the three principal issues facing the sector, the project will focus on the issue of improving the
management and operations of the Skopje Vodovod, the largest water and wastewater utility in the country
that supplies over 450,000 consumers or about 25% of the total population of the country. The
improvements would be brought about through the engagement of an experienced international water utility
Operator under a lease contract. The contract would be designed to provide adequate incentives to the
Operator to manage the existing facilities more efficiently, and to identify and recommend investments that
will benefit the citizens of Skopje. The Operator will take on the responsibility of providing water and
- 7 -



wastewater services for at least ten years. In assuming the commercial risk of the operations, the Operator
will have a built-in incentive to improve the financial performance of the utility, including higher revenue
collection and reduced operating expenses.
(b) Solid Waste Sector
Regarding increasing enforcement, the Government has already received assistance from the EU and it is
likely that this assistance will continue as the country will make modifications to the existing legal and
institutional framework to make it in line with that of EU norms. Thus, the project does not include
strengthening of the enforcement since EU assistance on this matter will be available.
Construction of proper landfills is tied to the economic situation in the country. As higher tariffs for solid
waste management becomes more affordable, the economy will support the construction of sanitary
landfills. Although, excepting Skopje, there are no sanitary landfills in the country, there have been no
reported public health hazards due to the illegal dumping and as a result is has not been a critical issue for
the Government to consider. However, it is possible that the Govemment may receive grants from the EU
and bi-laterals for landfill construction and operations. Drisla, the landfill that would be used under the
project is an engineered intermediate landfill which is located on soil with low permeability reducing the
risk of contaminating the groundwater. Review of the Drisla site and operations has indicated that the
landfill has a remaining life of about 30 years and should satisfactorily retain deposited wastes in a sound
and sustainable manner.
The main focus of the project is in the water sector but it will assist the Skopje municipality to initiate the
process of improving the operations of Komunalna Hygiena (KH), the Skopje municipal enterprise that is
responsible for collection of solid waste. This company currently serves about 25% of the country's
population and its effective functioning will set a model for other municipal enterprises and departnents
responsible for solid waste management. The project will support the development of a comprehensive
solid waste strategy for Skopje, which is expected to recommend the introduction of the private sector, that
will make operations more environmentally sustainable. The strategy will also look into possibilities of
combining KH's operations with that of Drisla which is another enterprise of the Skopje municipality
responsible for the landfill operations. The implementation of the strategy will take place in the medium to
long term outside the scope of this project. To ensure proper solid waste collection, that reduces public
health concems, the project will also support critical investments in KH.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A summary of the project components is presented in the table and described below. The total cost of the
project is estimated of be US$ 42.4 million which includes taxes and duties of US$ 9.8 million. The
proposed financing plan is as follows:
*   IDA Credit - SDR 10.3 million (US$ 13.10 million equivalent)
*   IBRD Loan - US$ 16.2 million
*   Government Contribution - US$ 4.1 million, in the form of exemption of custom duties
*   Vodovod contribution - US$ 8.1 million; and
*   KH contribution - US$ 1.0 million.
-8 -



Indicative             Bank-      % of
Coomponent                  Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
W_SW_ _   Total_WS W_   fin_n_it
Skopje - Water and Wastewater      Other Water         27.90      65.8      25.10      85.7
Component                          Supply &
Sanitation
Skopje - Solid Waste Component     Pollution Control    3.40       8.0       3.10       10.6
/ Waste
Management
Project Management Unit (including  Other Water         1.00       2.4       0.90        3.1
refinancing of PPF)                Supply &
Sanitation
Import Duties and Other taxes      Unidentified         3.80       9.0       0.00       0.0
Value Added Tax                    Unidentified         6.10      14.4       0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                  42.20       99.5     29.10       99.3
Front-end fee                    0.20        0.5       0.20       0.7
Total Financing Required                    42.40      100.0     29.30      100.0
Part A. Skopje Water and Wastewater Component (US$ 36.6 million)
'Te component consists of the following five sub-components:
A.1 Initial Investments (US$ 9.8 million): These urgent investments are expected to take place before a
private Operating Company (OC), that will provide water and wastewater service, is in place. The
investments are categorized into two groups:
v Prepared Investments (US$ 2.1 million): The Vodovod has completed preparation work for these
investments and the bidding documents are ready. The tendering process will start as soon as the
project is approved. These investments would include: (i) Water Supply Rehabilitation in the Madzari,
Hipodrom and Cento areas to provide continuous water supply to the citizens in the area (US$ 1.1
million); and (ii) Sewerage Rehabilitation in the October 11, Madzari and Sindzelic areas to improve
environmental conditions (US$ 1.0 million).
* Other Urgent investments: (US$ 7.7 million): Originally, it was intended that the OC will implement
these investments. However, during project negotiations, the Vodovod explained that preliminary work
on these investments has been completed and delaying the investments until the OC is hired would defer
the benefits. The Bank agreed that these investments could take place as long as they were fully
justified on economic and technical grounds. Unused funds under this category would be shifted to the
Operating Fund to be used by the OC. The proposed investments are: (i) construction of storm water
collectors (US$ 3.1 million); (ii) water distribution network rehabilitation (US$ 3.5 million); (iii)
rehabilitation of water mains in Nakov Street (US$ 0.5million); (iv) construction of a reservoir and
feeder network in Usje village (US$ 0.4 million); (v) pilot wells development to save the use of potable
water currently used for street cleaning and park irrigation (US$ 0.1 million); and (vi) purchase of
district meters to monitor the water network use (US$ 0.1 million).
A.2 Operating Fund (US$ 21.9 million): The effectiveness of the lease contract to be signed by the
Skopje City, Vodovod, and OC is a condition of disbursement for the Operating Fund. The Operating
-9-



Fund would finance (i) water network efficiency improvements which will involve investments to optimize
the network use; (ii) the rehabilitation of the existing water, sewerage and storm water network. This
rehabilitation will be limited to the existing network to avoid an adverse effect of water quality and quantity
in the Vardar river; and (iii) extension of services in the outskirts of the City that are currently served by
private wells. The Operating Fund will also be used to address, where economically justified, concems
raised by consumers. The Vodovod and the OC will define investments under the Operating Fund which
have to be approved by the City and the Bank on an annual basis. The investments would have to be
justified on technical, economic, and environmental grounds.
A.3 Vodovod Restructuring (US$ 2.8 million): This sub-component includes: (i) technical assistance to
be provided to the Vodovod and Skopje City to select an operator for the OC through a competitive bidding
process; develop the lease contract and the shareholder's agreement; restructure the present Vodovod (US$
0.5 million); and (ii) technical assistance and equipment to the Vodovod for it to meet its new requirements
as a supervisor of the OC (US$ 2.3 million).
A.4 Engineering and Construction Supervision Services (US$ 1.6 million): Provisions have been
made under the project for: (i) engineering services required for preparation of designs and bidding
documents for the investments under the Operating Fund (US$ 0.8 million); and (ii) construction
supervision services required for all investments including the Initial Defined Investments and the
Operating Fund (US$ 0.8 million).
A.5 Project Implementation and Management Support ( US$ 0.4 million): Support will be provided
under the project to the Project Unit in the Vodovod for consulting services, as needed, during project
implementation and for public awareness campaigns and customer surveys.
Part B: Skopje Solid Waste Component (US$ 4.5 million)
This component consists of the following two sub-components:
B.1 Technical Assistance (US$0.3 million): The TA will include: i) development of a strategy and an
action plan for the future development of the solid waste sector in Skopje, including an assessment of the
introduction of the private sector. Completion of this strategy by June 30, 2002 is a covenant under the
Loan/Credit (US$ 0.2 million); ii) monitoring of the Drisla landfill (US$ 0.1 million).
B.2  Urgent Investments (US$ 4.2 million): An assessment of the KH highlighted the fact that the
present vehicle fleet is old and subject to constant break-downs which affects the quality of service. The
lack of vehicles also prevents KIH from expanding service to the outskirts of the City. These urgent
investments represent the minimum level of affordable intervention required to prevent an imminent decline
of existing services, to enable an extension of services to currently under-served low-income groups and
provide a small margin of spare capacity for contingencies. These investments will include the purchase of
28 trucks for waste collection, about 2,800 waste containers, two sweeping vehicles, 10 vacuum sweepers,
and 15 water tankers.
Part C: Project Management Unit (PMU) (US$ 1.2 miflion)
This component consists of the following four sub-components:
C.1 Refinancing of the PPF (USS 0.6 million): The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount of
US$600,000 was extended in June 1999. It will be refinanced from the proceeds of the IDA credit.
- 1 0 -



C.2 Auditors' Fees (US$ 0.1 million): Provision has been made under the project for financing the
auditors' fees during the project implementation period.
C3 Consultants 'Services (US$ 0.3 million): Provision has been made to fund consultants' services
required for studies related to wastewater treatment, solid waste management and other needs that may
arise during project implementation.
C.4 Incremental Expenses of the PMU (US$ 0.2 million): This sub-component covers the incremental
expenses of the PMU resulting from the project including the project's share of personnel costs for PMU
staff assigned to work on the project, translation and interpretation services, secretarial services, and
supplies.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports policy reform through the introduction of Law on Water Supply, Drainage, and
Treatment of Urban Wastewater and institutional reform through (i) the introduction of PSP in the Skopje
water and wastewater utility and (ii) the preparation of a strategy and action plan for the Skopje solid waste
sector. Through these reforms, the utilities are expected to increase their management and operating
efficiency, and to progressively become financially autonomous so that they can better serve their
customers.
Policy Reform
During project preparation, assistance was provided to the Government to draft the above mentioned Law
which seeks to address present shortcomings in the enabling environment to improve operations of all water
utilities in the country. Submission of the Law to the Parliament for approval was a condition of
negotiations of the project. The salient features of the proposed Law are:
* Allowing private sector participation (PSP) in the provision of water and wastewater services; the
current law related to urban water services supports PSP, but the new law makes the role of the private
sector explicit;
*   Simplifying the process of disconnecting services to non-paying consumers;
* Requiring that water and wastewater functions be managed by a single public entity which can contract
out the services to the private sector; and
* Requiring that utilities that function as municipal departments be registered as independent enterprises,
separate from the municipality.
Institutional Reform
(a) Water and Wastewater Sector
The introduction of a private utility operator through a lease contract for the Skopje water and wastewater
utility, the largest in the country, is a significant institutional reform. The private Operator will have
greater capacity and incentives than the present publicly-owned enterprise to function more efficiently.
Through the lease contract, better water and wastewater services will be provided to the population.
Extensive discussions with the City council members and the Vodovod has taken place regarding the
introduction of the Operator when various private sector participation options were considered. The
- I 1 -



suggested lease option was considered to be most pragmatic under the given conditions and the City council
members voted for this option in December 2000. To help the City council members take a decision, the
term sheets for the lease contract and the shareholder's agreement have already been developed. Based on
these term sheets, a consultant will finalize the bidding document, pre-qualify bidders, assist the Skopje
CityNVodovod during the bidding process, and restructure the present Vodovod which will retain the Bank's
Loan/Credit management responsibility and also perform as a regulator of the lease contract. The schedule
for the hiring of the Operator is as follows:
* July 2001 - Consultant to advise the Skopje municipality selected
*   October 2001 - Operators pre-qualified
*   December 2001 - Bidding documents finalized based on the existing term sheets for the lease
contract and shareholder's agreement and pre-bid meetings
*   January 2002 - Bids issued
* June 2002 - Operator selected
*   December 31, 2002 - lease contract effective
The salient features of the lease contract will be:
*   A reputed, experienced water and wastewater utility Operator  will be selected from a list of
pre-qualified bidders based on an international competitive process. A single evaluation criteria -
maximum basic lease fee - will be used to select the winner from the list of pre-qualified Operators. As
part of the bidding document the City will confirm a base tariff which will be used by the Operators to
calculate the lease fee.
*   The Operator will enter into a shareholder's agreement with Skopje City to set up an Operating
Company (OC) to be owned by the Operator (at least 51% ownership) and the City (a maximum of
49% ownership). The City's contribution to the equity in the OC would be in the form of office and
movable operating assets of the present Vodovod (valued at about US$ 2 million). The Operator
would contribute an amount corresponding to its 51% share in the OC. The shareholder's agreement
will allow the Operator to acquire a greater share (more than 51%) through the buy-out of the City's
share.
*   The lease contract would be signed by the OC, the City, and the Vodovod. The OC will take over the
responsibility of water and wastewater operations and provision of related services from the Vodovod.
The use of the Rasche springs, the main source of water for Skopje, would be under the control of the
Vodovod. The water and wastewater network assets would remain under the ownership and control of
the City. The OC would pay an annual lease fee to the City for the use of the network assets. The OC
would be responsible for the provision of water and wastewater services at standards described in the
lease contract.
*   After effectiveness of the lease contract, there will be a transition period of 90 days in which the OC
will select managers and staff from the present Vodovod to join the OC. Staff that are not selected by
the OC will initially remain with the Vodovod which will be progressively downsized by the City. The
costs of the downsizing, including severance payments, will be bome by the City. The primary
functions of the restructured Vodovod would be to regulate the lease contract and continue with the
Bank Loan/Credit management.
*   The lease fee will consist of two elements - i) a basic fee which will be amount specified in the bid of
the winning Operator. The OC will have to commit itself to pay this amount to the City; and (ii) a
- 12 -



dynamic element related to the surcharge in tariffs for investments. This element will ensure that the
City recovers the costs related to depreciation of the assets, debt service, and counterpart fund
requirements under the project.
* The tariff will have three elements - (i) a base tariff which the City will confirm in the bidding
documents and will be the basis for the Operator to calculate the basic lease fee; (ii) an adjustment
provision, based on certain formulae, which will reflect changes in the environment such as inflation,
energy costs or other unforeseen events; and (iii) an investment surcharge which the OC will have to
pass back to the City. The contract design includes appropriate incentives and risk-sharing provisions
to ensure that the investment choices are econonic and consistent with the interests of both the City and
the Operator.
*   The proposed ownership structure of the OC (the Operator - 51% and the City - 49%) will ensure that
the Operator has sufficient authority for day-to-day management and operations that would be decided
by a simple majority of the shareholder votes. Key decisions, such as investments and the related
surcharges on tariffs, and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets, would require approval by
a two-third majority. Network assets created with the use of the Operating Fund will be owned by and
reflected in the financial statements of the City.
(b) Solid Waste Sector
The preparation of a strategy and action plan for Skopje's solid waste management will lay the foundation
for an environmentally sustainable operation. The strategy will look into possibilities of merging KH with
Drisla to bring economies of scale and to allow the formation of a large regional waste management
company, and the introduction of the private sector to collect, transport, and dispose wastes. Given the
strong interest of the City management to improve and extend solid waste service, it is likely that the action
plan developed under the project will receive support from donors for implementation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The improvements in the management and operations of the utilities - water and wastewater, and solid
waste collection - will result in benefits to all inhabitants of Skopje - including the poor. Skopje's total
population is about 600,000 or about 30% of the population of the country. The poor account for about
20% of Skopje's population and will also benefit from improved operations of the utilities.
In regard to water and wastewater services, the following benefits of the project will materialize after the
lease contract is effective.
*   A customer survey for the PSP analysis and a Rapid Social Assessment carried out during the project
preparation identified the following key concerns of the citizens: interruptions in service, variations in
water pressure, lack of water in high level apartment buildings, hardness of water, presence of excess
chlorine and sand, and lack of responsiveness of the Vodovod. The lease contract would include
provisions that would require the OC to improve service on these identified issues. Failure to meet the
standards would result in penalties for the OC.
*   The lease contract will also have special provisions to ensure that the OC serves the citizens, including
the poor. Areas in the City that are not well served have already been identified in the Rapid Social
Assessment and the OC would be required to improve services in these areas. The OC will be set a
- 13 -



goal to provide 24 hour water service. In this regard, the poorer sections of the City, which often have
the greatest interruptions in service will benefit.
* The rehabilitation of the sewerage and the stormwater systems will reduce public health risks related to
cross contamination of drinking water with pollution
*   Efficient operations of the OC, under the lease contract, will help to create a more financially
autonomous enterprise capable of responding better to the needs of the consumers.
In regard to solid waste collection, the main benefits are:
*   an effective waste collection system through the provision of new vehicles since the existing fleet often
break-down, which prevents KH from collecting wastes and increases its costs on vehicle maintenance.
*   extension of services to under-served low-income parts of the population. Without the new vehicles
supported under the project this extension of service would not be possible.
e   provision of a basis for future development of the Skopje solid waste sector through the strategy and
action plan supported under the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Lending and Onlending Arrangements
The IDA Credit and the IBRD Loan would be made to FYR Macedonia, the Borrower. The Ministry of
Finance (MOF), on behalf of the Borrower, will onlend the proceeds of both the Credit and the Loan to
Vodovod. The MOF will also onlend the proceeds of the Loan to KH. There would be two Subsidiary
Loan Agreements: one signed by MOF, Vodovod, and the City; the other one signed by MOF, KH, and the
City. The terms and conditions of the on-lending from MOF in the SLA would be identical to the
conditions of IDA and IBRD between the Bank and the Borrower. The on-lending terms of IDA can be
justified on the grounds that it represents about 38% of the entire financing plan and that the Vodovod and
OC are required to service the poor at affordable prices. Assets created by the IDA funds will belong to
the City. The Bank will enter into Project Agreements with the Vodovod and KH. After the OC is created,
the Vodovod will retain the Bank Loan/Credit management functions and will also take on the
responsibility of regulating the OC. Execution of the SLAs is an Effectiveness condition of the project.
Project Management and Administration Arrangements
The project will be implemented by the respective operating companies: Skopje Vodovod/OC for water and
wastewater, and KB for solid waste collection. A Project Unit (PU) has been set up in the Vodovod,
staffed by a Head of the Unit, a Procurement Officer and a Project Accounts Officer. A similar PU has
been established in KH. In addition, a Project Management Unit (PMU) exists in the Ministry of
Transport and Communication (MOTC), the parent ministry for the project. The PMU was set up in 1999
to monitor and administer the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) that had been extended for the project and
thus has expenrence with Bank procurement and financial management requirements.
The PUs will be responsible for procurement, accounting and reporting back to PMU for their respective
components. The PMU will be responsible for procurement, accounting and reporting for its component.
In addition, the PMU will be responsible for the preparation of quarterly Project Management Reports
- 14 -



(PMR) in regard to the overall project, including consolidation and synthesis of the accounts, financial
statements, procurement reports and project performance indicators. The PMU will be responsible for: (i)
administration of the Special Accounts and Credit/Loan disbursements for all project components; (ii)
coordination of financial management aspects (project accounting, internal controls, financial reporting,
monitoring and auditing arrangements); and (iii) ensuring that the Environmental Management Plan is
implemented by the Vodovod and KH.
Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements
The Bank's Financial Management Specialist (FMS) assigned to the project carried out an assessment of
the financial management capability of the PUs in the Vodovod and KH as well as the PMU. A summary of
the proposed financial management arrangements is provided in Annex 6A. The financial management
system for the project has been developed by external consultants under Terms of Reference approved by
the Bank.  The system meets the Bank's minimum requirements but some further improvements are
necessary. These improvements were agreed upon during negotiations through an Action Plan which will
be implemented by the PMU. The project accounting software, running at the PMU on a server, is also
installed in the PUs and remotely connected via modem. This will allow the PUs to progressively cany out
their specific accounting and reporting tasks autonomously, and to report back to the PMU for
consolidation of project accounts, and for overall coordination and monitoring purposes.
Production of full Project Management Reports (PMRs) is targeted to start by June 30, 2002. The PMU
will maintain the Special Accounts, and prepare project accounts and financial records, including
statements of expenditure (SOE). A copy of all supporting documents will be maintained by the PMU, and
made available to Bank missions and auditors as requested. The PMU will prepare, on the basis of
information to be submitted to it by the PUs, quarterly reports on project progress in formats acceptable to
the Bank. Project and entity accounts will be audited on an annual basis in accordance with intemational
standards of auditing by independent private sector auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports will
be made available to the Bank within six months after the end of each year. The costs of the annual audits
will be met from the proceeds of the IBRD loan/IDA credit. Appointment of the auditor to undertake the
audit of the project accounts and financial statements of the Vodovod and KI for the year 2001 will be a
condition of Effectiveness of the project.
Procurement Arrangements
Goods and services to be purchased through the IBRD loan/IDA credit will be procured in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines. Procurement in respect of project components not financed by the Bank
would be carried out in accordance with applicable Macedonian regulations. The project elements, their
estimated costs, and procurement methods are summarized in Table A in Annex 6. A detailed procurement
plan, including estimated costs and schedule, is presented in Annex 6.   A Procurement Capacity
Assessment of the PMU has been completed by the Bank and a summary of the assessment is presented in
Annex 6. The procurement risk is considered to be average in the project since the PMU has had
experience in Bank procurement and has attended a workshop on the matter conducted by the Bank. The
PUs in the Vodovod and KH will prepare the bidding documents with assistance from the PMU. The PMU
will be responsible for launching the bids. The bid evaluation will be completed by the PUs, with one
member in the evaluation committee from the PMU. The Vodovod or KH will sign the contract with the
suppliers/contractors. The PMU will be responsible for the procurement under its component.
- 15-



The procurement assessment outlined the following action plan to strengthen the institutional capacity:
* the Bank will provide to the PMU all standard Bank procurement documents, including a
procurement handbook containing the guidelines, templates of notices, standard Bank
documents and evaluation reports. Some of the materials have already been provided, to the
PMU and during negotiations any outstanding materials will be submitted to the PMU.
*   the project will support procurement training for relevant staff in the PMU and the PUs of the
Vodovod and KH.
* the project will support the hiring of an international consultants, as needed, to help train the
PMU and prepare procurement documents.
* around the period of project effectiveness a project launch workshop will be held. In this
workshop, the implementation of the procurement plan will be discussed in detail.
Disbursement Arrangements
The PMU will open and maintain two Special Accounts (SAs), one for the Loan proceeds and the other for
the Credit proceeds, at the National Bank of the Borrower. Details of the disbursement arrangements are
presented in Annex 6.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
The Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan will include performance indicators that will be used to track
progress made towards the achievement of project objectives. The Vodovod and KH, would be required to
meet the project benchmarks and report to Skopje City, the Borrower and the Bank on a regular basis. The
PMU, with the assistance of the PUs, will ensure that all reporting requirements under the project are met
in accordance with appropriate formats and agreed time schedules. Consolidated Project Management
Reports will be prepared by the PMU on a quarterly basis. The Borrower and the Bank will conduct joint
reviews annually during supervision missions. A Mid-Term Review will be undertaken by June 30, 2003.
An Implementation Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
Closing Date.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Choice of Participating Utilities: Initially during project preparation, the cities of Bitola and Prilep
indicated their interest in participation. Skopje, at that time, had not decided to participate in the project.
In April 1999, Skopje confirmed its decision to participate in the project for the water sector. Project
preparation thereafter included these three cities, and components were developed for each city. In January
2001, Skopje City requested the Bank to consider the inclusion of a solid waste component under the
project to address urgent needs in the sector. The component would be implemented by Komunalna
Higiena, the solid waste collection company in Skopje. During the Bank mission in January 2001, Bitola
decided that it would withdraw from the project due to lack of agreement between the central and City
governments in regard to the management of the water utility. In February 2001, Prilep informed the Bank
of its decision to withdraw from the project as it had an opportunity to receive grant financing from KfW
for the components intended to be financed under the Bank project. The project therefore focuses on the
water and solid waste management sectors in Skopje.
- 16 -



Nature of PSP: The possibility of introducing a concession contract was considered where the private
sector would be responsible for both operations and financing of investments in the utility. However, given
investors' perceptions of country and commercial risks involved in investing in a Macedonian water utility,
this option is not feasible at present since the cost of capital would be prohibitively high. This was
confirmed by the study which evaluated different PSP options for Skopje. The recommended lease contract
option has been discussed extensively with the City council members who in December 2000 voted to
implement the option. Under the lease contract, the Operator will take on the commercial risk of operations
but will not be responsible for financing investments. Since the City has taken the decision to introduce a
lease contract, various intemational Operators have shown interest to bid to form the OC.
Use of the Operating Fund: For the Skopje water and wastewater component, the project includes an
Operating Fund to finance investments and expenditures related to network improvements and institutional
strengthening. The Operating Fund can be used only after the OC is in place. This increases the risk of
delays in project implementation. The possibility of providing the opportunity to the existing Vodovod to
utilize the Operating Fund was considered, particularly since first-year investments have already been
identified. However, this approach was not followed since the OC will take on the commercial risk and
should be given a say in the investments.
Need for Initial Investments: For the Skopje water component, not having the Initial Investrnents was
considered since the activities could have been included under the Operating Fund. However, this option
was not followed to avoid delays in the implementation of the investments that are important and prepared.
Inclusion of a Solid Waste Component: Since the main focus of the project is in the water sector,
inclusion of the solid waste component was analyzed carefully, especially since it was requested by the City
in January 2001 towards the end of project preparation activities. It was decided to include the component
since there is a clear need for new vehicles to collect solid waste effectively and reduce public health
hazards. The new vehicles purchased under the project will also help to extend services to the underserved
areas. Focus group meetings including citizens also highlighted the need to address the concerns related to
solid waste management in the City. The City has shown strong commitment towards implementing the
component and is willing to raise tariffs and complete a comprehensive solid waste management strategy
which will look into options of including the private sector.
Need for a Project Management Unit: The role of the PMU during project implementation was
considered. It was decided to maintain the PMU since it has played an important role in project
preparation, including coordinating activities funded by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The
coordinating role played by the PMU has made its staff familiar with Bank procedures, and as a result it
would be cost-effective to utilize their services as a focal point for financial management, report
consolidation, and support to the PUs. The Government has also indicated that the PMU, rather than the
Vodovod or KH, should be responsible for managing the Special Accounts under the project. The PMU is
also the focal point for similar sector assistance activities financed by EBRD, KfW, and other bilateral
agencies, and will continue to facilitate donor coordination.
- 17-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector lssue                      Project           j     ifSR) Ratins
:_ __  (Esank   napts only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (HP)   Objective (DO)
Rehabilitate and increase the efficiency Irrigation Rehabilitation   S              S
and sustainability of three irrigation    Project.
schemes.                           Cost: US$32.5 mln.
Bank Loan: US$12.5 mln.
Effectiveness: 4/29/98
Closing: 9/30/04
Conservation and protection of Lake   Lake Ohrid Conservation        S              S
Ohrid                              Project
Cost: US$4.4 mln.
GEF grant: 3.05 XDRM
Effectiveness: 12/3/98
Closing: 6/30/02
Other development agencies
European Bank for Reconstruction and Municipal and Environmental
Development                        Action Program (MEAP) -
investment plan of around
US$50 mln. to improve water
and wastewater services in
Kumanovo, Stip, Struga/Orhid,
Strumica, and Veles.
KfW                                Grants to upgrade the
wastewater treatment plant in
Struga and sewerage network in
Ohrid and Struga. A water
supply improvement program in
the Studencica region (including
Prilep, Makedonska Brod, and
Krucevo) is being considered.
EU-Phare financed feasibility studies   National Master Plans for
water and wastewater
treatment; and feasibility study
for a wastewater treatment
plant in Skopje
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 18-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project is the first to be undertaken by the Bank in the water and wastewater sector in FYR
Macedonia. However, the Bank can draw on its experience under different projects in Central and East
Europe and other parts of the world. In all these projects, the institutional, technical, and financial issues
are generally similar. The experience and information gained by the Bank provides valuable guidance to
this project and is reflected in the project design.
*   Institutional Improvements: Under a proper regulatory environment, incentives for a private operator
to provide efficient operations are much more than for publicly-owned utilities. To this end, the project
emphasizes the role of the private sector through the lease contract in Skopje. Further, it allows the
Vodovod to utilize funds from the Bank Loan/IDA Credit for economically viable investments that will
support key investments in the sector.
* Financial Sustainability: Utilities often face problems related to financial sustainability which in turn
affects the quality of service. This risk will be minimized under the lease contract in Skopje where the
OC has the necessary incentive to achieve and maintain the financial viability of the operating company
for the duration of the lease contract. Further, under the lease contract, the City will mandate the
minimum standards of service to be delivered by the Operator which will benefit the consumers.
*   Project Complexity: Complicated project designs have resulted in unsatisfactory implementation. To
allow focus during implementation, the objective of the project is limited to one issue - to improve the
operational efficiency of the water utility through the introduction of the private sector. Further, during
project preparation, up-front actions were taken such as raising tariffs, drafting a new Water Law, and
preparation of bidding documents for initial investments that would reduce the complexity of project
implementation.
i   Counterpart Funds: Lack of counterpart funds often prevents investments to be put in place as per the
project schedule. To address this issue, from the initial stages of preparation, affordability of the
project was kept as a key consideration. Pro-forma financial statements have indicated that the lease
fee provided by the OC will provide sufficient resources to the City and Vodovod for counterpart funds
reducing the risk of project implementation delays.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government, Skopje City and the participating utilities (Skopje Vodovod and KH) have expressed
strong support for the proposed project. An indication of the commitment at both the local and national
levels is given by the number of up-front actions that have been taken:
* The Government has: (i) drafted a Law on Water Supply, Drainage, and Treatment of Urban
Wastewaters which includes key provisions for enabling institutional and financial strengthening of the
utilities. Submission of the draft Law to Parliament for approval was a negotiation condition for the
project; and (ii) utilized the funds borrowed through the PPF (US$600,000) effectively to ensure that
the project is well-prepared. Project preparation activities included an assessment of the water network
in Skopje, an environmental assessment, a social assessment, a PSP study for Skopje, development of a
project financial management system, and feasibility studies for wastewater treatment plants (in Bitola
and Prilep).
*   In April 1999, the Skopje City council implemented a tariff increase (26% for the Vodovod) to
compensate for earlier freezes since 1996. Further, it carried out an extensive consultative process to
- 19 -



decide on the lease contract option. Although, this decision took some time (from April to December
2000), it was confirmed through a vote in the City council which demonstrates a broad commitment at
the local level towards the institutional reform.
* The City has also shown its commitment towards the solid waste component by willing to increase
tariffs by at least 25% as a condition of disbursement. The City Council is now considering a proposal
to increase tariffs for solid waste services by 35% which is more than the requirement of the Bank
Loan/Credit disbursement condition.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been involved in FYR Macedonia's water sector through the development of the National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1997 and the Irrigation Project that was approved by the Bank's
Board in 1998.  Issues in relation to municipal water and wastewater, and solid waste management
services were first identified in the NEAP and the Bank has remained engaged in the sector dialogue since
that time. The Bank has also been closely involved in the preparation and design of the proposed project
and its experience in matters related to the sectors has been reflected in the project design. In particular,
the Bank was able to facilitate the discussions related to PSP in the water utility of Skopje. Concessionary
IDA financing will also help the utilities to carry out urgently needed rehabilitation investments to a greater
extent than would have been possible under borrowings on commercial terms.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Benefits of the water component would be the improved service for all citizens at affordable prices which
would include: (i) the progressive achievement of 24-hour supply to increasing numbers of Skopje's
population, savings of high quality potable spring water, environmental improvements through better storm
water drainage, and greater responsiveness of the utility to consumers' concems and requirements; and (ii)
savings in operating costs, through optimization of staffing and other improvements in operating efficiency.
The economic efficiency of the investments are outlined below.
Prepared Investments (US$ 2.1 million)
The Water Supply Rehabilitation would help supply water to 13,000 citizens living on the eastem side of
the City who currently depend on unreliable groundwater as their source of water supply.  The
rehabilitation will also help to reduce the intermittent supply to about 20,000 people who live in the higher
floors of apartment buildings. The benefits of continuous water supply to the 20,000 residents in the
apartment buildings have not been quantified. However, the investment can be justified by including only
the benefits of additional water sold to the 13,000 citizens currently using groundwater. The additional
water sold will be 665,000 m on an annual basis (per capita daily consumption of 140 liters). Using the
present tariff levels as a basis to estimate benefits of the additional water sold, the NPV (at a discount rate
of 10%) and the ERR of the investments are US$ 0.3 million and 17%, respectively.
The Sewerage Rehabilitation program will primarily lead to environmental benefits of preventing
wastewater overflow when the pumping systems breakdown or when there is excess rain.  These
environmental benefits are qualitative in nature and have not been used for the analysis. Apart from the
- 20 -



environmental benefits there would be savings to the water utility through a reduction in annual operating
costs related to energy, personnel, and materials. Details are presented in Annex 4.
Other Urgent Investments (US$ 7.7 million)
Originally, it was intended that the OC will implement these investments. However, during project
negotiations, the Vodovod explained that preliminary work on these investments have been completed and
delaying the investments until the OC is hired would defer the benefits. The Bank agreed that these
investments could take place as long as they were fully justified on economic and technical grounds by the
Vodovod. Unused funds under this category would be shifted to the Operating Fund to be used by the OC.
Preliminary analysis of these investments indicate that they are justified. It is difficult to quantify the
benefits of the stormwater collectors (US$ 3.2 million) but they are needed to prevent the flooding of streets
during the rainy season to improve environmental and public health conditions. The water distribution
network rehabilitation (US$ 3.5 million) will help to replace sections of the network that break-down
constantly. The need for the remaining investments (US$ 1.0 million) under this category - rehabilitation of
the water mains in Nakov Street, new reservoir and feeder line for Usje village, pilot irrigation wells, and
purchase of district meters - is explained in Annex 4.
Operating Fund (US$ 21.9 million)
The investments under the Operating Fund will be defined by the OC and the Vodovod and has to be
approved by the Skopje City and the Bank. The investments would have to be justified on technical,
economic, and environmental grounds on an annual basis and would be used for a) water network
efficiency improvements; b) rehabilitation of the existing water, sewerage and storm water network; and c)
possible extension of services in the outskirts of the City that are currently served by private wells. The
Operating Fund will also be used to address, where economically justified, concems raised by consumers.
While consumers are not concemed about the potable nature of the water, there are concems related to
irregular service in certain areas; lack of responsiveness of the Vodovod on service calls; environmental
concems related to sewage overflow; hardness of the water; and presence of chlorine, sand and turbidity
in the water.
A traditional economic analysis performed in Bank projects cannot be performed in this case since the
investments are not yet defined. However, the design of the lease contract, particularly the use of the
investment surcharge, will ensure that the project finances investments that are economic in nature and
serves the interest of the City and the OC. Although the responsibility of the paying back the Loan/Credit
lies with the Vodovod, through the lease fee, the OC depends on the revenues collected through the tariffs
and would resist any tariff increase through the surcharge that would reduce eamings. Thus, the tariff
would provide the economic test through the willingness of consumers to pay for the investments.
To protect the municipality from uneconomic use of capital by the OC, the lease fee and the tariff should be
well structured. The term sheet of the lease contract, that has been approved by the City council proposes
that:
*   the lease fee will include two elements: (i) a fixed basic element, and (ii) a dynamic element related to
surcharge of investments. The fixed element is the amount that the OC will have to pay the City as per
the bid of the Operator. The dynamic element would be the surcharge on investments that the OC will
collect and pass on to the City. The amount of the annual surcharge will be determined on the basis of:
(i) the required annual contribution to project financing from intemal funds of the utility; and (ii)
cost-recovery of the investments over the economic life of the investments.
- 21 -



*   the tariff is envisaged to consist of three independent parts satisfying the needs of the contracting
parties: (i) the basic fixed element of the tariff, as agreed by the City in the bidding documents, which
does not change; (ii) an adjustment provision based on agreed formulae to account for changes in the
environment., e.g inflation, increase in energy prices or other unforeseen events; and (iii) investment
surcharge which will be defined through formulae to cover debt service, intemal cash requirements for
counterpart funds, and depreciation over the life of the investments.
These above provisions in the lease fee and tariffs are expected to provide an adequate balance of the
interests of the contracting parties. To avoid the surcharge, the OC will focus more on increasing
operational efficiency and making economic investments to maximize profits. The City also does not have
an incentive to suggest uneconomic investments since the surcharge will increase tariffs. It is not in the
interest of the City to increase tariffs that cannot be justified to the citizens or there is no willingness to pay.
The City is also covered for investments made since the surcharge in the lease fee will provide for debt
service, counterpart funds, and depreciation.
The solid waste component will bring about environmental benefits which are difficult to quantify. The
qualitative benefits of the component would be: (i) improvement in the quality of the waste collection
services. This will be enabled by the replacement of worn-out equipment leading to more regular service
and more complete collection; (ii) extension of coverage of services to low-income areas. This would
benefit an estimated 10% of the population; and (iii) efficiency improvement and savings in maintenance
costs in KH through new and improved equipment, and better deployment of equipment.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Project Financing Plan: The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 42.4 million, including VAT,
other taxes and duties. Total taxes and duties are estimated at US$ 9.8 million, consisting of import duties
and related taxes of US$ 3.7 million and VAT of US$ 6.0 million. Project cost excluding all taxes and
duties is estimated at US$ 32.6 million. The IBRD loan of US$16.2 million (including the capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.2 million) and the IDA Credit of SDR 10.3 million (US$ 13.1 million equivalent)
together represent 69% of the total project cost. The balance of the required financing, US$ 13.1 million
(31% of total cost) would be shared between the Government (US$4.1 million), and Vodovod and KH
(US$ 9.0 million). The Govemment's contribution would be in the form of exemption of customs duties.
The Vodovod and KH will contribute towards VAT and 10% of the project costs, without taxes. Until the
formation of the OC, the existing Vodovod would contribute the required counterpart funding. When the
OC is formed, the counterpart funds would be realized by the City and Vodovod through the lease fee.
Financial System and Tariffs: Macedonian water companies follow financial regulations, and accounting
and tax rules. issued by the central government. These rules and regulations differ significantly at present
from international accounting and auditing standards (IFAC and IAS) for similar revenue-earning entities.
This affects the presentation of financial information by the utilities. In this regard, one of the key tasks of
the Operator would be to improve the water and wastewater utility's financial management system so that it
would be able to meet international standards, and also comply with Macedonian accounting and reporting
regulations.
Tariff-setting authority rests with Skopje City. On an annual basis, the utilities propose a tariff, based on a
formula to cover operational and maintenance expenses, to the City for approval. However, due to political
and social constraints, tariff increases have been irregular and generally inadequate to compensate for
domestic inflation. For the Vodovod, tariffs were kept unchanged over a period of four years up to April
- 22 -



1999 when tariffs were increased by 26%. At present the average water and wastewater tariff per cubic
meter (revenues divided by volume billed) is US$ 0.34. Under the current structure, water and wastewater
tariff rates are the same for domestic and institutional consumers but substantially higher - twice as much -
for industrial consumers.
For solid waste services, the current tariffs have been in effect since 1997. The rates are the same for all
consumers.  The current tariff levels need to be increased by at least 25% to cover total operating
expenses, including depreciation. This is a condition of disbursement under the solid waste component.
Past and Present Financial Situation: Historical financial statements for the Skopje Vodovod and KH
are included in the Project Files. Based on conservative assessments of the available information and the
unaudited financial statements, it is clear that the financial situation of the two utilities remains weak
although there has been some improvement in the Vodovod since the tariff increases in 1999. The utilities'
weak financial position has been the result of: (i) low tariff levels constrained by political considerations
and administrative regulations; (ii) low collections, particularly from institutional and large industrial
consumers who have large arrears in payments; and (iii) increases in operating expenses at a faster rate
than improvements in revenue growth.
Revenue collection rates have been low as a result of which there has been a progressive build-up of arrears
of receivables and consequently of payables. At the end of 1999, receivables from consumers amounted to
about US$10 million equivalent for the Vodovod which includes arrears for a number of years. For KH,
the net amount of receivables outstanding (after adjustment by KH for doubtful receivables) was about
US$ 2.5 million equivalent. In the case of the Vodovod, institutional and large industrial consumers
accounted for about 40% of the overdue receivables. The Vodovod continues to carry these receivables on
its books although prospects for realization are low without Govermnent intervention. It was agreed during
negotiations that the OC will not inherit any receivables and payables which will be an important factor for
the pre-qualified bidders to calculate the lease fee that they can offer to the City.
Operating expenses have continued to increase as a result of domestic inflation and increasing deterioration
in systems with more frequent breakdowns and disruptions. With the twin impact of rising expenses and
constrained revenues, working ratios have increased to levels (91% in the Vodovod and 103% in KH)
which indicate that the utilities are not on a path to reach financial viability unless corrective measures are
taken soon.
Another major impediment to improving collection performance for water and wastewater services has
been the lack of clarity in regard to enforcement of disconnections for nonpaying consumers under the
existing regulatory framework. Under the present law, disconnection is difficult since the legal process is
protracted and places substantial financial burdens on the utilities. However, this is expected to change
under the proposed Law on Water Supply, Drainage, and Treatment of Urban Wastewater which has been
submitted to Parliament for approval.
- 23 -



Future Finances:  Projections of each utility's financial performance are given in Annex 5 and
summarized below.
Water and Wastewater. It is important to note that the financial statements of the Vodovod will no longer
be relevant once the OC is established. A fresh appraisal, including a financial review, of the OC would
be carried out by the Bank. Thus, the financial situation described below in respect of the water and
wastewater utility is only indicative. Revenues depend upon (i) water sales, (ii) tariff levels, and (iii)
revenue collection rates. For the projections, despite the annual growth in population and possible revival
of industrial and commercial demand, water sales are conservatively assumed to remain at current volumes.
Tariff levels are calculated based on (i) a base tariff required for full-cost recovery; and (ii) estimated
surcharge for project financing contributions and cost-recovery of project investments. The surcharge is
estimated as follows: annual internal contribution to project financing plus annual depreciation of the
project investments divided by the total volume of water sales.
The collection ratio (defined as total annual collections including in respect of past arrears, divided by
current year billings) is assumed to improve from about 90% at present to 97% by 2005, under the
management of the OC. In regard to operating and maintenance expenses, the principal savings would
come from optimization of the labor force. Reductions in numbers of personnel would be offset to some
extent by an increase in the average salaries for the retained workers. On this basis, it is assumed that the
OC could realize net annual savings of about 30% in the staff expenses, (about US$ 2 million per year,
corresponding to about 20% of revenues) by rationalizing the labor force. These savings are assumed to
come into effect in the second half of 2002, after the formation of the OC. Since staffing costs account for
more than 50% of the operating expenses, optimizing the number of employees would reduce the extent of
the tariff increases required. Other possible savings would come from operating efficiency improvements
in other areas, but have not been included in the analysis. Based on the foregoing, projected indicators for
the water and wastewater utility are:
rNet revenues (US$ mn)             11.9                     14.8                     15.8
|Net income (US$ mn)               -0.5                     3.7                      2.8
Working ratio (%)                  91                       58                       55
Operating ratio ()104                                       74                       77
Collection ratio (%)               90                       95                       97
Average tariff without            0.344                    0.344                    0.374
surcharge
(US$/m3)
Surcharge for project             0.000                    0.064                    0.041
financing
(US$/m)
Surcharge for cost-recovery       0.000                    0.020                    0.043
of investments(US$/m3)
Average tariff with               0.344                    0.427                    0.457
surcharge(US$/m3)
Solid Waste Collection: For KH, the projections of revenues assume the progressive extension of services
to an additional 10% of the population, and a gradual improvement in the revenue collection ratio (total
collections divided by current year billings) from 90% at present to 94% by 2005. Operating expenses are
- 24 -



projected to increase on account of an increase in KH's payments to Drisla, the landfill company,
proportionately by the amount of additional waste to be collected, and the depreciation charges for the new
equipment. Projected financial indicators are summarized in the table below. To be able to provide the
required counterpart financing and to be able to service the debt related to its component, KB would have
to (i) increase its average tariff level by at least 25% by November 30, 2001 (a disbursement condition for
this component), and (ii) maintain working ratios and collection ratios at acceptable levels.
Net revenues (U$rl)6.8                                  8.7                    9.1
Net income (US$ mln)            -0. 1                  -0.2                    0.1
Working ratio (%)               103                     85                     83
Operating ratio ()117                                   100                    98
Collection ratio (%)             90                     94_  _          _9
Average domestic tariff         0.028                  0.037                  0.039
(US$/m ) 
Affordability: The affordability of the investments was taken into account during project preparation. The
per capita investment cost of the water component (total cost estimated to be US$ 33 million) is around
US$ 55 over the economic life of the assets (more than 20 years) created under the project. This is a
reasonable amount of investment given the level of income of the Skopje citizens. Using an indicator that
water and wastewater expenses should not be more than 5% of household income, the current level of
domestic water and wastewater charges (14.9 denars/m') is assessed to be affordable to the lowest income
group. Based on the projections indicated above, it is estimated that by 2005 tariffs may increase by about
30% (in US dollar terms) over existing levels due to the investment surcharges. Assuming a 30% increase
in domestic tariffs in real terms, the higher level of charges (about 19.5 denars/m3) is estimated to remain
affordable to the lowest income group.
The table below summarizes the percentage of the water and wastewater expenses in relation to the
household income. Per capita consumption is taken to be 130 liters/day and an average household to
include 3.56 members (as estimated in the project feasibility report). At current tariff levels, the average
household water and wastewater expense is 206 denars which represents about 4% of the income of the
lowest quintile. If tariffs increase by 30% by the year 2005, the household expenditure on water and
wastewater will be 268 denars. This level of expenditure is still around 5% of the household income
without assuming any increases in the income and elasticity of demand due to higher prices.
< 7,680                5,228                   3.%t5.1%                        
7,680 to 11,879            9,592                  2.1% _                 2.8%          l
11,880 to 15,999           13,977                  1.5%                   1.9%
16,000 to 21,999           18,193                  1.1%                   1.5%
> 22,000                28,134                 0.7%                    1.0%
- 25 -



Financial Conditionality: In the case of the Vodovod, the OC will assume the commercial risk under the
project in accordance with the lease agreement with the City and the Vodovod. Financial terms and
conditions would be defined under the lease agreement. Under the Project Agreement, the Vodovod would
be required to: (i) ensure that the tariffs and revenue collections are adequate to cover at least operational
and maintenance expenses, counterpart financing requirements, and meet payment obligations including
debt service; and (ii) review with the Bank, by March 31 each year, the actual performance for the previous
year and the projected forecasts of revenues and expenditures for the next two years.
Under the Project Agreement, KH would be required to: (i) ensure that the tariffs and revenue collections
are adequate to cover operational and maintenance expenses, counterpart financing requirements, and meet
payment obligations including debt service; (ii) submit by March 31 each year its progress made in
improving service and extending service; and (iii) review with the Bank, by March 31 each year, the actual
performance for the previous year and the projected forecasts of revenues and expenditures for the next two
years.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is expected to have a positive net fiscal impact since with increased efficiency and higher
tariffs, the utilities will progressively become self-sustaining and will not be dependent on the Government
for investments. Although the project requires a contribution of around US$ 4.1 million from the
Government over the project implementation period, most of the amount would be in the form of
exemptions from custom duties, estimated to be US$ 3.8 million, on the project investments.
3. Technical:
The identified components in the project have been analyzed from a technical standpoint as part of
feasibility studies undertaken with the help of foreign consultants financed through the PPF. The scope of
work and its relevance for meeting the project objectives, costs, and implementation schedule have been
defined and reviewed by specialists. Investmnents to be financed by the Operating Fund will have to be
prepared by the Vodovod and OC which will incorporate international best practice experience on technical
issues. The investments under the Operating Fund would have to be justified on technical, economic, and
environmental grounds and approved by the City and the Bank.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be executed by its beneficiaries - the Vodovod and KH - through their Project Units (PUs).
The PMU will assist the PUs and coordinate project management activities including procurement,
financial management, and project reporting. The Vodovod is currently organized as a municipal enterprise
under the applicable local and national regulations. On its establishment, the OC will assume the
responsibility of providing water and wastewater services through a contract with the City.  The
restructured Vodovod will be responsible for regulating the lease contract and its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. While the Vodovod will not have revenues from providing water and
wastewater services, it will receive the lease fee from the City for counterpart funds and debt service. A
summary of the institutional responsibilities, for the Bank project, before and after the introduction of PSP
for the water component, is presented below:
- 26 -



Daily Utility Operations         Vodovod                              OC
Investment Identification        Vodovod                         Vodovod and OC
Investment Procurement        PU in Vodovod               PU in Restructured Vodovod/PMU
Investment                  Contractors/Suppliers              Contractors/Suppliers
Implementation
Investment Supervision           Vodovod                            Vodovod
Bank Project Execution        PU in Vodovod                 PU in Restructured Vodovod
Supervision of lease               N/A                      PU in Restructured Vodovod
contract
Debt Service                       N/A                       Restructured Vodovod/City
(through the lease fee)
Counterpart Fund                 Vodovod                     Restructured Vodovod/City
(through the lease fee)
4.2 Project management:
The PUs in the Vodovod and KH will be responsible for project management for their respective
components. The PUs will be responsible for supervising the preparation of designs, bidding documents,
and construction. Provision has been made under the project for financing of engineering services and
construction supervision services required for the investments under the project. The PUs will keep the
PMU timely and adequately informed on the implementation status of the project to allow the PMU to
provide consolidated reports to the Bank on a regular basis.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the procurement capacity of the PMU was undertaken (summarized in Annex 6) and is
available in the Project Files. A detailed procurement plan for the identified investments has been prepared
which will allow better planning and monitoring of procurement activities. For the Initial Defined
Investments in Skopje, the bidding documents have been prepared and will be issued as soon as the project
is approved. Provision has been made under the project for engineering services required for preparation of
designs and bidding documents for the First-Year and other investments to be financed under the Operating
Fund.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for FYR of Macedonia has not been conducted.
However, country as well as entity-specific information relevant to prepare the project financial
management assessment have been gathered during project preparation. The readiness and adequacy of the
project financial management system to monitor project sources and uses of funds in accordance with
formats and procedures acceptable to the Bank have been confirmed prior to Board presentation.
Satisfactory arrangements are expected to be in place from the outset of project implementation, due to the
progress being made by the PMU and the PU's of Vodovod and KH on the Action Plan to develop the
financial management system.
In regard to entity-level financial management, the OC will establish a financial management system
capable of maintaining accounts and generating financial statements in accordance with international
standards. Progress in this area will be regularly monitored during supervision. No special provisions are
stipulated for KH apart from the completion of the study for the strategy and action plan for the Skopje
solid waste sector. The above arrangements are considered adequate to address the fiduciary risks of the
project.
- 27 -



5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is classified as Category B per the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment,
indicating that there are no significant environmental issues.  During project preparation, reviews were
carried out to identify environmental concems.
For the water and wastewater component the main benefit would be better service to the citizens through
the PSP and an improved environment due to the rehabilitation of the sewerage and stormwater networks.
Since the project is focused towards rehabilitation of existing assets there are no resettlement of property
right issues. The environmental concems are limited to: (i) ensuring that adequate precautionary measures
are taken during construction to avoid problems related to dust, noise, and traffic disruption. The
construction company that will be carrying out the works will be responsible to address these concems as
part of their work; and (ii) sustainable use of groundwater in Skopje for the production well component of
the project. This component is included under first year investments under the Operating Fund. If the OC
decides to implement this component proper monitoring of the aquifer should take place to ensure that the
use of water from the wells will be sustainable. This issue has already been reviewed during preparation
and the information indicates that given the recharge rate of the aquifer and the intended use of water, there
is no risk of a net extraction of water from the aquifer. However, this has to be verified with monitoring
data if the wells are constructed. All investments under the Operating Fund will have to be approved by the
Bank and Skopje City on technical, economic, and environmental grounds.
Regarding the solid waste component, the project will not create any negative environmental effects. It will
bring about environmental benefits through better collection of wastes which reduces public health
concerns. The project will also extend services to the currently unserved areas of the City, which will
eliminate illegal disposal sites that cause public health and environmental concerns. To ensure that the
leachate in the landfill does not create environmental concerns, the project proposes to support the current
monitoring program in the Drisla area. It should be recognized that without the project there still would be
leachate originating from the landfill and the project does not contribute to leachate generation. Currently,
there is no indication that the groundwater is contaminated by the leachate, posing an environmental
hazard. However, regular monitoring of the leachate will prevent potential groundwater contamination.
Also, the culvert around the landfill currently collects rain water and takes it away from the landfill. If this
culvert failed, then there is a potential of the rain water to be contaminated with the leachate. There is no
indication that the culvert is weakening and will fail. However, a regular visual inspection of the culvert
will avoid any potential problems.
International Waterways
Bank's Operational Policy on International Waterways (OP 7.50) for this project applies since Skopje is
located on the Vardar river about 120 miles upstream before the river enters Greece. However, according
to the OP there are exceptions to the requirement for a country to notify a riparian state, Greece in this
case, of the project. According to paragraph 7 (a) of the OP, the exception applies for "any ongoing
schemes, project involving additions or alterations that require rehabilitation, construction, or other changes
that in the judgment of the Bank (i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the
other riparians; and (ii) will not be adversely affected by the other riparians' possible water use". This
exception applies only to minor additions or alterations to the ongoing scheme; it does not cover works and
activities that would exceed the original scheme, change its nature, or so alter or expand its scope and
extent as to make it appear a new or different scheme.
- 28 -



The water component of the project has been assessed in relation to OP 7.50. The project involves the
rehabilitation of existing facilities which will result in minor alterations to the ongoing scheme and it will
not: a) adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; and b) be adversely
affected by the other riparians' water use. Considering the nature of the project, the exception to the
extemal notification requirements of OP 7.50, set forth in paragraph 7(a) of the OP is fully applicable, i.e.
there is no need to notify the riparian state about the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) of the project is adequate to address the minor environmental
concerns raised by the project. For the water and wastewater component, the EMP requires the contractor,
responsible for the rehabilitation, to address the environmental concems. The contractors would be
required through local permits to keep work sites clean, minimize dust and noise, and restore the site to the
original state after construction. The Vodovod will have to ensure that the bidding documents for the
selection of the contractors include provisions to address the environmental concerns related to the
construction period. The economic, technical and environmental justification of the production wells have
to be first established by the Vodovod. If the wells are to be put in place, they will be constructed in a
phased manner and the groundwater will be monitored to ensure that the water extracted does not exceed
the recharge of the aquifer. The Vodovod will be required to complete the monitoring.
For the solid waste component, there are no negative environmental impacts since the new equipment will
help to collect wastes more effectively and increase the service area. However, to ensure that the leachate
in the landfill does not create environmental concerns, the project proposes to support the current
monitoring program and the visual inspection of the culvert. The leachate monitoring program will be the
responsibility of KH as per the Project Agreement. The KH will be responsible for ensuring that the
monitoring of the leachate and the condition of the culvert is carried out regularly and reporting to the
Bank, through the semi-annual project implementation reports.
In summary, the EMP includes the following components and the PMU will ensure that plan is carried out
satisfactorily.
Minimal disturbance around the           Contractors          Vdvd which will also report to
site during construction                                                the PMU.
Safe use of groundwater for               Vodovod             Vodovod which will also report to
production well, if constructed                                          the PMU.
Proper monitoring of leachate in            KI                 KT which will also report to the
Drisla landfill                                                           PM-U.
Regular inspection of stormwater            KH                 KH which will also report to the
culvert in Drisla landfill                                                 PMU.
- 29 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Water and Wastewater - May 2000
Solid Waste - April 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The EA for the water and wastewater component was submitted to the Bank's Infoshop in May 2000. The
EA was also reviewed by the Ministry of Environment, the agency that is responsible for seeking comments
from the public. To date there have been no objections to the project. The activities under the project have
also been widely publicized through a social assessment and in the local media and no environmental
concems have been raised by the public. The EA for the solid waste component was prepared in March
2001 since the component was added to the project after the Bank's January 2001 mission. The solid waste
component was discussed in a public meeting in March 2001 and there are no environmental concerns.
Participants in the public meeting fully supported the scope of the solid waste component since it would
improve solid waste management and extend services to the minority areas.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment'? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Loan and Credit Agreements between the Bank and the Borrower requires the PMU to ensure that the
EMP is carried out satisfactorily. In addition, the two Project Agreements require the Vodovod and KH to
carry out their respective components in an environmentally safe manner. The Bank will receive regular
reports from the PMU on the progress made in implementing the project including the status of the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As part of the study that analyzed various PSP options for the Vodovod, more than 500 customers were
surveyed who gave insight on the quality improvements that are necessary. This study was completed in
August 2000. In addition, a Rapid Social Assessment was carried out in January 2001 which worked with
more than hundred citizens, through ten focus groups, from various parts of the City. These citizens
highlighted the improvements that were expected from the Vodovod on water and wastewater, and also
discussed issues related to solid waste management. The findings of the customer survey and the RSA are
outlined below:
Water Supply
About 75% in the households in the greater Skopje area have access to water supply through the Vodovod.
The participants recognized that the water supplied to them was from the pristine Rasche spring and
potable. However, the following concems were raised:
* Uneven and low water pressure, which interrupts water supply in high rise buildings and hilly
neighborhoods, especially in the summer months. Participants felt that the interruptions in supply were
due to the quality of the secondary network and the capacity of the pumping stations.
- 30 -



*   The consumers were not satisfied with the hardness, and the presence of chlorine, sand, and turbidity in
the water. A survey, conducted as part of the PSP option study for the project, indicated that about
40% of the consumers are not satisfied with the Vodovod's operation.
*   Unsatisfactory service response from Vodovod. The participants felt that the Vodovod staff are
arrogant, bureaucratic, and monopolist. In addition, the citizens felt that the information flow from
Vodovod was not adequate. The only time the citizens hear from the Vodovod is when the company
issues brief notices on service interruptions or network repair in the local media and television. The
participants also felt that were no mechanisms to raise concerns with the Vodovod regarding water and
wastewater services.
The participants did not perceive the tariffs as being high. Most of the focus groups concluded that the
citizens are (i) aware that tariffs should support maintenance, replacements, and investments, and (ii) ready
to pay higher tariffs, but only if the quality of service improves. While citizen's did not consider the tariffs
to be high, the ability to pay the tariffs was discussed.  Participants felt that the nonpayment or
under-payment of water and wastewater bills is linked to the current economic condition. The City's
unemployment rate (40%) and the number of people on the welfare rolls are high (9,146 households with
33,923 individuals or about 4% of the population).  Overall, it is estimated that about 20% of the
population live in poverty and there are no public subsidies to the Vodovod or to the consumers.
The consumers had a positive attitude towards the introduction of the private sector and felt that it would
bring about better quality of service. However, they were also concerned that tariffs would be raised
unnecessarily high. The citizens also showed optimism on the improvement potential of the Vodovod and
many of them were willing to contribute to a self-financing program through 'mesna zajednica" (local
community boards) that would bring local improvements.
Sewerage/Stormwater System
The consumers feel that the sewerage and the stormwater systems do not work adequately due to (i) growth
in informal and illegal housing due to the large immigration in the City after the 1963 earthquake; and (ii)
improper planning of the old City. After the 1963 earthquake, planned urban growth started across the
Vardar river from the old City. However, the old City continued to exist and grow, especially with the
influx of the minority population, without proper urban planning or investments to provide better
infrastructure services.
Citizens felt that the secondary sewerage network was not well constructed, had uneven performance, and
was insufficient to collect wastewater from illegal houses. Sewers were often broken and open creating
health concerns. Regarding stornwater, citizens complained that after moderate rainfall, many streets
would flood on a regular basis creating inconvenience. This flooding also caused environmental concerns
of cross contamination of stormwater with wastewater. The focus groups identified areas where the
sewerage and stormwater network needed urgent rehabilitation.
Solid Waste
All focus groups agreed that solid waste management problems were evident in all parts of the City.
Participants felt that there were many uncontrolled dump sites throughout the City and in some cases even
the Vardar river was being used as a disposal site. The citizens also mentioned that there were not enough
solid waste containers and also they were not regularly emptied. These containers are often placed in areas
- 31 -



that made it difficult for the solid waste trucks to retrieve the wastes. About 10% of the population, do not
receive a waste collection service. Citizens living outside the City complained that their tariff structure
should not be based on the size of their plot but on the area of the built area, since this would make their
tariff in line with the levels for the City residents where the tariff is calculated on the basis of the built area.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The major stakeholders are the inhabitants of Skopje, institutional and industrial consumers, the Skopje
City government, NGOs, and management and staff of the Vodovod and KH. The views of the
stakeholders, expressed through the customer survey and the Rapid Social Assessment, have been
incorporated in the project design. Officials from the City government have been involved in the project
design and accept that, under the institutional restructuning of the Vodovod, some of the existing staff
would have to be laid-off. The City will be responsible for downsizing the Vodovod and will finance the
severance payments as needed.
Participants in the Rapid Social Assessment have suggested that the Vodovod be more responsive to the
needs of the citizens. In this regard, the project includes provisions for increasing public awareness on
water issues by the Vodovod. The public awareness campaign would include regular surveys and
consultations in regard to social interest aspects, such as access to water, water quality, water
supply/sewage improvements, affordability of tariffs, collection rate trends etc. The OC will be required to
establish a Consumer Service office which is a key recommendation made by the focus groups. This office
will systematically monitor customer complaints and responses by OC. Representatives of relevant NGOs,
public interest groups, and consumer groups are expected to work with this office to ensure quality service
for the citizens.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project initiated the process of public consultation through the customer survey and the Rapid Social
Assessment. Participants agreed that providing feedback on the service level of municipal enterprises to
design a project was a new experience for them. All of them appreciated the opportunity they received to
contribute towards the project which is illustrated by a statement made by one of the participants "Finally,
someone remembered to ask us how we were."
Various areas of the City where improvements are needed in water service and rehabilitation of the
sewerage and stormwater network have already been identified. The OC will be required to improve
services in these areas through the lease contract. The Consumer Service office, to be created in the OC,
will also seek opinion on the willingness of the citizens, especially the poor, to pay the investment
surcharge.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The OC, under the lease contract, will also have specific goals to meet on improvements in service quality,
including responsiveness to the consumer. Failure to meet these goals would result in penalties for the OC.
- 32 -



The lease contract would also include provisions requiring the OC to set up a Customer Service office to
respond better to the needs of the citizens. For the solid waste component, the KH is required to improve
and extend waste collection services.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project includes specific monitoring indicators to ensure that the citizens are well served. These
indicators include:
* Twenty four hour water service to all consumers by December 2005
* Tariffs maintained at levels that cover operating and investment costs and are also affordable
* Seventy and ninety percent of consumers in June 2003 and December 2005, respectively, satisfied with
the water and wastewater services. The customer satisfaction would be determined through surveys
* Regular waste collection services provided to 100% of the City's households by December 2005
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)             _         Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes *_ No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safetv of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    * Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Environmental Management Plan, described in paragraph 5.2 above, satisfactory addresses the
environmental concerns related to the project. Paragraph 5.1 above also explains that while policy on
International Waters applies, there is no need to notify the riparian states about the project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project depends primarily on the ability of the utilities (the Vodovod and KH) to
become self-sufficient in terms of generating internal resources to meet all costs related to operations and
investments. While the proposed long-term lease contract in Skopje will create the incentive for the OC to
manage and operate the facilities efficiently, it is also essential that the OC receives full support from the
City.
The OC would continue to be involved in Skopje only if the regulatory environment is correct and
institutional changes supported in the project are successful. To ensure success, upfront actions during
preparation and initial stages of project implementation were designed which include: (i) initial tariff
- 33 -



increases carried out by the Vodovod; (ii) extensive discussion on PSP options with the City which resulted
in a formal decision to introduce a lease contract; (iii) draffing of the terms sheet of the lease contract and
the shareholder's agreement of the OC; (iv) submission of the draft Law on Water Supply Drainage and
Treatment of Urban Wastewaters to Parliament as a condition of Negotiations; (v) a dated covenant for the
effectiveness of the lease contract; and (vi) restriction on the use of the Operating Fund unless the OC is in
place.
In the case of the Skopje water and wastewater component, sustainability would also require effective
monitoring and supervision of the lease contract by the City. The prospects of satisfactory performance by
the OC would be enhanced by: (i) prequalification of bidders; (ii) careful design of the lease contract to
ensure clarity of the rights and obligations of the contracting parties; (iii) incentives for the OC, both
penalties and bonuses, to perform as per expectations; and (iv) effective progress monitoring systems. For
the Skopje solid waste component, sustainability would require the early completion of the study for the
strategy and action plan, and prompt implementation of recommended improvements thereafter.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
isk                     Risk "Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Timely hiring of the Operating Company      H          The benefits of the lease contract made clear
through the lease contract                             through the consultative process which led to the
final PSP resolution of the City Council
Strict pre-qualification criteria to ensure that
experienced operators will bid for the contracts
Careful design of lease contracts with clear
definition of rights, obligations, incentives and
penalties for the contracting parties
Bulk (60%) of allocated Loan/Credit funds can
be used only if the Operator is engaged
Early passage of the draft Law on Water     M          Submission of the draft Law on Water Supply,
Supply, Drainage, and Treatment of                    Drainage, and Treatment of Urban Wastewaters
Urban Wastewaters by Parliament and                    to Parliament is a condition of negotiations
political support for strict enforcement of
provisions in the Law                                  Adequate features to be built into the lease
contract to enable OC to disconnect nonpaying
consumers. Thus, if the adoption of the Law is
delayed, the OC will still be protected
Skopje City and the OC are successful in    M         Well designed public information and
gaining and maintaining public support                participation programs to be developed
for the improvement programs
Provision made under Bank loan/IDA credit for
financing
- 34 -



Skopje City supports timely and adequate   M         Tariff increase linked to investments through the
tariff increases                                     surcharge that has to be agreed on an annual
basis with between the OC and the City
Skopje City implements recommendations     M         Current City administration committed to
of the solid waste services study                    reforming the sector
From Components to Outputs
Timely implementation of procurement       N         Technical assistance under the project
actions, including contractor selection
Timely engagement of Operator and          H         Technical assistance under the project
formation of the OC
Skopje City and the OC agree on            M         Principles and procedures to be set up-front
investment priorities under the Operating            under the contract
Fund
Timely and adequate submission of          N         Up-front agreement on reporting requirements
information by the Project Units
Reporting system set up and functioning
Maintenance of qualified staff in the      N         Commitment on the part of the MOTC, Skopje
PUs/PMU                                              City
Timely engagement of auditors              N         Appointment of auditor for the year 2001
accounts and statements a condition of
Effectiveness
Provision under the Loan/Credit for financing of
audit services
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The overall project risk is assessed as modest, although the risk of the lease contract not being place on
time is considered high. The principal risks related to the timely engagement of the OC are:
(i) willingness of an Operator to participate given the political risks, i.e. the risk that private operators will
not bid on the lease contract which would result in a failure to meet the project objective of improving the
efficiency of the water utility; and
(ii) delays in project implementation since a sizeable portion of the investments will not be defined until the
Operator is in place.
- 35 -



To address these risks, the following mitigation factors are included under the project:
(i) In regard to willingness of private operators to participate, the choice of a lease contract as the
appropriate form of PSP was based on a careful assessment of the blend of risk and reward suitable in the
case of FYR Macedonia. Informal market analysis during the study of PSP options indicated significant
interest on the part of potential bidders and this has been confirmed subsequently through the contacts made
by a number of potential Operators after the Skopje municipality took the decision to enter into a lease
contract with an OC; and
(ii) In regard to possible implementation delays, the effectiveness of the lease contract is a precondition for
disbursement under the Operating Fund sub-component of the project which accounts for around 60% of
the investments under the Skopje water and wastewater component. Without having an OC in place,
Skopje City would not be able to utilize the bulk of the allocated loan proceeds. This would be reinforced
through a dated covenant stipulating that the lease contract be effective by December 31, 2002. Failure to
meet this covenant would lead to suspension of disbursements and possible cancellation of the Loan/Credit.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Project risks have been identified and appropriate mitigation measures have been proposed. However,
outside the scope and control of the project there is a political risk related to the March 2001 outbreak of
political unrest in FYR Macedonia's border areas with Kosovo. Potential Operators may perceive that the
political risk of bidding for the lease contract is high. This may result in lack of interest on the part of
qualified Operators to bid or a premium that the Skopje City would have to pay for the lease contract,
reflected through low lease fees. However, the Government is taking steps to address the issues related to
the unrest. Further, there is intemational presence in FYR Macedonia to assist the Government to address
the issues related to the recent conflict and to maintain overall stability in the region.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements for Skopje Vodovod and KH; and
(ii) Appointment of the auditor for the audit of the project accounts and financial statements of the
Vodovod and KH for the year 2001;
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Negotiations Conditions
(i) Submission of the draft Law on Water Supply, Drainage, and Treatment of Urban Wastewaters to
Parliament.
Board Conditions
(i) Certification by the Bank of the readiness and adequacy of the project financial management system
Other Conditions
- 36 -



(i)  Effectiveness of the lease contract by December 31, 2002;
(ii)  Effectiveness of the lease contract is a condition of disbursement of the Operating Fund;
(iii) Operating Fund can only be utilized for investments and expenditures approved by the City and the
Bank, on an annual basis.  Investments have to be justified on technical, economic, and
environmental grounds;
(iv)  Submission of strategy and action plan for the Skopje solid waste sector by June 30, 2002;
(v)  PMU to carry out Action Plan, agreed during project negotiations, for the financial management
system of the project;
(vi) Disbursement of funds for the Skopje solid waste component only after KH implements the required
tariff increase of at least 25 %; and
(vii) The PMU to ensure that the Environmental Management Plan is implemented satisfactorily.
Accounts and Audit
(i) Maintenance of accounts, and financial management arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) Submission of annual audited statements.
Financial Conditions of Implementing Agencies
(i) Skopje Vodovod to:
(a) ensure that the tariffs and revenue collections are adequate to cover at least operational and
maintenance expenses, counterpart financing requirements, and meet payment obligations including
debt service; and
(b) review with the Bank, by March 31 each year, the actual performance for the previous year and the
projected forecasts of revenues and expenditures for the next two years.
(ii) Skopje KH to:
(a) ensure that the tariffs and revenue collections are adequate to cover operational and maintenance
expenses, counterpart financing requirements, and meet payment obligations including debt service;
(b) submit by March 31 each year its progress made in improving service and extending service; and
(c) review with the Bank, by March 31 each year, the actual performance for the previous year and the
projected forecasts of revenues and expenditures for the next two years.
Flow and Utilization of Project Funds
(i) Establishment of two Special Accounts - one for the Loan and other one for the Credit - in the National
Bank.
Project Monitoring, Review and Reporting
(i) Quarterly Project Management Reporting by PMU;
- 37 -



(ii) Mid-Term Review by June 30, 2003; and
(iii) Implementation Completion Report prepared no later than six months after Closing Date.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
L 1. b) Not applicable.
E 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
D 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Initial Defined Investments for the Skopje water sector are ready and procurement can start after
project approval.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1l 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Sudipto Sarkar                    Ricardo                            Christiaan Poortman
Director
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector            Country Manager/Director
- 38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
f QFP|f $   _         _       W       * t _    _ s,~~~~~&M  otial    ls
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
- To develop infrastructure    - Improvements in bill  - Periodic Country Reports    - Political stability and
and increase quality and  collection                                            absence of major conflict in
efficiency of public utilities                                                 the region
- Reduction in system loss
- To promote private sector                                                     - Macro economic conditions
participation             - Reduction in pollution in                           conducive for growth
rivers
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
The development objectives of                                                   - Political stability and
the project are:                                                                absence of major conflict in
the region
(i) to improve the operational - 24 hour service to all  - PMRs
efficiency (institutional,  consumers by December 2005                          - Favorable macroeconomic
technical, commercial, and                           - Supervision mission reports conditions in Macedonia
financial) of Skopje Vodovod  - tariffs maintained at levels
to enable it to provide quality  that cover operating and  - Mid Term Review (MTR)   - Continued support at the
service at affordable prices   investment costs and are also                    national level for improving
affordable                                           public utility govemance and
performance
70% and 90% of consumers
in June 2003 and December                            - Continued support at the
2005, respectively, satisfied                        local level for reforms related
with water and wastewater                            to delivery of municipal
services                                             services
(ii) to provide a sound basis   - Solid Waste strategy and    - Consultants' report and
for the future rational   action plan prepared by June  study
development of solid waste   30, 2002.
management in Skopje.                                - PMRs
- regular waste collection
services provided to 100% of  - Supervision mission reports
the city's households by
December 2005
- working ratio of 85% and
83% in June 2003 and
December 2005, respectively.
- 39 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Skopje Water and
Wastewater Component                                                          - Timely hiring of the OC
- Early adoption of draft Law
on Water Supply, Drainage,
and Treatment of Urban
Wastewaters and political
support for strict enforcement
of provisions in the Law
- The Operator and Skopje
City are successful in gaining
and maintaining public
support for the program
- Skopje City supports timely
and adequate tariff increases
for investment surcharges
A. 1 Initial Investments  - Investments completed on   - Designs and bidding
time and within budget, and   documents
providing expected benefits
- Construction progress
reports
- PMRs
- Supervision mission reports
A.2 Operating Fund (OF)    - Investments/improvements  - Annual Investment Plans
carried out on time and within
budget, and providing the    - PMRs
expected benefits
- Mid-term Review
- Contracts placed for at least
25% of the OF by December
31, 2003
- Contracts placed for at least
75% of OF fimds by
December 31, 2004
- An improved commercial
management system in place
at the OC by June 30, 2003
-40 -



A.3 Vodovod Restructuring   - Engagement of consultants  - PMRs
Assistance                to that will provide advisory
service by July 31, 2001
- Monitoring and supervision
arrangements for lease
contract to in place by June
30, 2002
A.4 Engineering and        - Designs and bidding      - Consultants' reports
Construction Supervision   documents in place for the
Assistance                 Operating Fund             - PMRs
- Construction supervision
consultants in place for
investments under the proect
A.5 Project Implementation    - PMRs by June 30, 2002    - PMRs
Support
- Clean audit opinions, timely   - Audit reports
submission of reports
- Consultants' reports
- Execution, of public
awareness campaigns and
customer surveys
B. Skopje Solid waste
Component
B I. Technical Assistance  - Report on strategy and   - Consultants' report      - Political will to implement
action plan by June 30, 2002                          recommendations of the study
- PMRs
- Proper monitoring of Drisla
landfill                   - Supervision reports
B.2 Urgent investments     - Purchase and deployment of - PMIRs                  - Willingness of KH and
trucks, containers, vehicles,                         citizens to keep Skopje clean
other equipment by December - Supervision reports    to reduce public health
2002                                                  concems
C. Project Management Unit                            - Supervision reports      Continuation of the effective
Support                                                                          performance of the PMU
- PMRs
C. I Refinancing of PPF
C.2 Auditors' Services     - Clean audit opinions,
timely submission of reports
C.3 Consultants' Services    - Studies and analyses
completed on time
C.4 Incremental Expenses of Proper project monitoring
PMU
-41-



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
A. Skopje Water and       US$36.6 million           - Engineering cost estimates
Wastewater Component                                -Bids and contracts
- Audit reports
A.1 Initial Investments   US$9.9 million                                      - Timely completion of
procurement actions,
including contractor selection
A.2 Operating Fund (OF)    US$21.9 million          - Annual investment plans   - Timnely engagement of the
OC
- Skopje City and the OC
agree on investment priorities
under the Operating Fund
A.3 Vodovod Restructuring   US$2.8 million                                    - Timely decision on
Assistance                                                                    restructuring the Vodovod,
including on a staff reduction
program
A.4 Engineering and       US$1.6 million                                      - Timely engagement of
Construction Supervision                                                      consultants
Services
A.5 Project Implementation  US$0.4 mnillion                                   - Maintenance of qualified
Support                                                                       staff
B. Skopje Solid Waste     US$4.5 million
Component
B. I Technical Assistance    US$0.3 million         - Consultants' report     - Timely engagement of
- Supervision reports     consultants
B.2 Urgent Investments    US$4.2 million            - Engineering cost estimates  - Timely increase of tariffs
- Bids and contracts     for KH to afford the
- PMRs                    investments
- Audit reports
C. Project Management Unit US$1.2 million
Support
C. 1 Refinancing of PPF   US$0.6 million
-42 -



C.3 Auditors' Services    US$0.I million             - Audit reports            - Timely engagement of
- PMRs                    auditors
- Prompt attention to issues
in the Management Letters
C.4 Consultants' Services    US$0.3 million          - Consultants' reports     - Timely engagement of
consultants
C.5 Incremental Expenses of US$0.2 million           - PMRs
PMU
- 43 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$36.60 million
Background on Skopje Vodovod's Operation
The Skopje Vodovod supplies water to about 450,000 citizens. The main source of water is the Rasche
springs which has an average yield of 3.8 m3/sec and provides high quality potable water. In the summer
months, the yield from the spring reduces and the groundwater is pumped from certain parts of the city to
augment the water supply. These arrangements have been adequate so far but there is concern that with the
population growth in the city and water demand, the supply of water has to be increased.
The Vodovod provides on an average about 235,000 m3 of water per day. About 30% of this water is
consumed by domestic consumers (average consumption of about 155 liters/day/capita) and around 20% is
used by institutional and industrial consumption. The remaining 50% is categorized as non-revenue water
which includes 10% use for park irrigation and street cleaning. The Vodovod serves water through 53,000
connections and almost all water consumption is metered.
In general, most citizens get clean water and about 60% of the consumers are satisfied with the service.
However, the water supply is not regular during the summer months, especially in high rise buildings
towards the east of the city. Also, in a number of areas in the city there is lack of water pressure during
peak demand periods. This is due to inadequate storage capacity to meet peak demands. In customer
surveys, consumers have complained about the hardness, and presence of chlorine, sand, and turbidity in
the water. Consumers are also not satisfied with the responsiveness of the Vodovod in addressing breaks in
service and answering queries from customers.
The Vodovod's water network, which dates back to 1936, is about 900 km long. A policy of replacing old
pipes has not been implemented and as a result physical losses are increasing and is considered to be high.
The current physical losses are estimated to be around 30% of the production. The average number of
breaks are around 2 breaks/km/year which is a high number compared to an average of around 0.2
breaks/km/year in Western European utilities.
The Vodovod also maintains the sewerage (520 km) and storm water (190 kin) systems. The Vodovod
owns the sewerage assets but the storm water system is owned by Skopje City. About 80% of the
population receiving water is connected to the sewerage system. The collected wastewater is not treated
and discharged directly in the Vardar river. While there have been no reported health problems due to the
sewerage discharge, the City officials have plans to construct a treatment plant in the medium term as the
investment and operating costs become affordable. The introduction of the private sector would help
towards the treatment plant construction since the available resources of the water utility are expected to
increase. The stormwater system is not adequate and in certain sections of the city flooding occurs after
heavy rainfall.
The Vodovod is a municipal company and is treated as a separate financial entity. While the Vodovod is
able to meet its operating costs, it is not able to afford investment costs. The introduction of the private
sector is intended to increase operational efficiency and increase the available resources in the company for
- 44 -



investments. The current revenue is around US$ 12 million on an annual basis with an average tariff of
around $ 0.34/m3. However, revenue collection has been low as a result of which there has been a
progressive build-up of arrears in receivables and payables. At the end of 1999, receivables from
consumers amounted to US$ 10 million equivalent which includes arrears from a number of years. The
institutional and large consumers account for about 40% of the overdue receivables. The Vodovod
continues to carry these receivables on its books although prospects for their realization are low.
The current working ratio (total operating expense divided by collected revenues) is around 90%. The
current productivity of the Vodovod is not high and staffing costs account for about 50% of the costs.
With the introduction of the private sector, the productivity and operating efficiency are expected to
increase, making more resources available for investments.
Part A: Skopje Water and Wastewater Component
The project component has been designed based on the above operating condition of the Vodovod. This
component consists of the following five sub-components:
A.] Initial Investments (US$ 9.8 million): These urgent investments are expected to take place before a
private Operating Company (OC), that will provide water and wastewater services, is in place. These
investments are categorized into two groups.
Lrepared Investments (US$ 2.1 million)
The Vodovod has completed preparation work for these investments and the bidding documents are ready.
The tendering process will start as soon as the project is approved. These investments are:
* Water Supply Rehabilitation (US$ 1.1 million): An additional water supply feeder line will be
constructed to provide continuous water supply in the Madzari, Hipodrom and Cento districts where
about 51,000 persons live in predominantly low-income high-rise buildings. About 20,000 people who
live on the higher floors in these buildings will receive a more continuous water supply. The proposed
feeder will also supply water to about 13,000 people living in villages on the eastem side of the city
that are at present poorly served by local groundwater sources.
*   Sewerage Rehabilitation (US$ 1.0 million): Gravity collectors will be constructed in the October 11,
Madzari and Sindzelic residential areas that would eliminate the need for the present obsolete pumping
stations which often break down, creating environmental problems related to wastewater overflow.
The rehabilitation will replace existing sewerage and no new wastewater conmections would be added.
Other Urgent Investments (US 7.7 million)
Originally, it was intended that the OC will implement these investments. However, during project
negotiations, the Vodovod explained that preliminary work on these investments has been completed and
delaying the investments until the OC is hired would defer the benefits. The Bank agreed that these
investments could take place as long as they were fully justified on economic and technical grounds.
Unused funds under this category would be shifted to the Operating Fund to be used by the OC. The
proposed investments are:
*   Construction of Storm  Water Collectors (US$3.1 million):  Lack of collectors and essential
connecting links between existing collectors cause frequent flooding of a number of busy streets in
- 45 -



central Skopje during the rainy season. This results in serious impediments to traffic and pedestrians,
and damage to property. Investments under the project would enable the diversion of the excess water
into storm drainage and eventual outflow into the Vardar river.
*   Rehabilitation of Water Distribution Netvork (US$ 3.5 million): The present distribution system has
progressively deteriorated as a result of a lack of adequate maintenance and pipe replacement. This
results in high water losses from the distribution system, estimated at about 30% of the water supplied.
The losses also result in some areas suffering from low pressure during peak demand periods. It is
estimated that overall physical losses will go down by about 10% after completion of the rehabilitation
program.
*   Construction of New' Main (US$ 0.5 million): The main in the Nakov Street area is a part of the
Master Plan for the Primary Network and was not built so far because of lack of funds. Construction
of the main will reinforce the primary distribution network and lead to better equalization of pressure in
the adjacent network.
*   Constnrction of New Reservoir and Feeder Line for Usje Village (US$ 0.4 million): Usje, a foothill
village of about 1,200 inhabitants just outside the city boundary is poorly served by a hydrophore
station, resulting in frequent shortages, particularly during the summer months. The project provides
for the construction of a new reservoir and a feeder line, and conversion of the hydrophore station into
a pumping station.
*   Development of Irrigation Wells (US$ 0.1 million): At present, high quality spring water is being
used for irrigation and street-cleaning purposes. The project provides for the construction of 10 fully
equipped boreholes on a pilot basis at several locations spread over the city. Water from the boreholes
will replace the spring water and enable savings of high quality potable water.
*   Supply and Installation of District Meters (US$ 0.1 million): The Vodovod will install the district
meters in pre-identified areas for better monitoring and control of the water network.
A.2  Operating Fund (US$ 21.9 million): The effectiveness of the lease contract to be signed by the
Skopje City, Vodovod, and the Operating Company (OC) is a condition of disbursement for the Operating
Fund. The OC will be held by a private Operator (at least 51% ownership) and the Skopje City (a
maximum  of 49%  ownership).  The Operating Fund would finance a) water network efficiency
improvements which will involve investments to optimize the network use (establishment of pressure zones,
meters, increased storage capacity, hardware etc.); b) rehabilitation of the existing water, sewerage and
storm water network. This rehabilitation will be limited to the existing network to avoid an adverse effect
of water quality and quantity in the Vardar river; and c) possible extension of services in the outskirts of
the city that are currently served by private wells. The Operating Fund will also be used to address, where
economically justified. concerns raised by consumers. While consumers are not concerned about the
potable nature of the water, there are concerns related to irregular service in certain areas; lack of
responsiveness of the Vodovod on service calls; environmental concerns related to sewage overflow;
hardness of the water; and presence of chlorine, sand and turbidity in the water. The Vodovod and the OC
would be required to evaluate and address these concerns and identify investments to be financed by the
Operating Fund. Procurement would be carried out by the Vodovod with assistance from the PMU. Bank
procurement guidelines would be followed for the use of the Operating Fund.
The Vodovod and the OC will have to define the investments under the Operating Fund which have to be
approved by the City and the Bank. The effect of the investments on tariffs should also be presented by the
- 46 -



Vodovod and OC. To be eligible for financing, proposed investments and expenditures would have to be
justified on technical, economic and environmental grounds. The first annual plan will be due within 90
days after the start of the lease contract. Subsequent plans will be due 90 days before the end of each
contract year. Any amount not expended in a particular year will be carried over to the next year.
A.3 Vodovod Restructuring (US$ 2.8 million): This sub-component includes: (i) technical assistance to
be provided to the Vodovod and Skopje City to select an operator for the OC through a competitive bidding
process; develop the Lease Contract and the Shareholder's Agreement; restructure the present Vodovod
(US$ 0.5 million); and (ii) technical assistance and equipment to the Vodovod for it to meet its new
requirements as a supervisor of the OC (US$ 2.3 million).
A.4 Engineering and Construction Supervision Services (US$ 1.6 million): Provisions have been
made under the project for: (i) engineering services required for preparation of designs and bidding
documents for the investments under the Operating Fund (US$ 0.8 million); and (ii) construction
supervision services required for all investments including the Initial Defined Investments and the
Operating Fund (US$ 0.8 million).
A.5 Project Implementation and Management Support ( US$ 0.4 million): Support will be provided
under the project to the Project Unit in the Vodovod for consulting services, as needed, during project
implementation and for public awareness campaigns and customer surveys.
Project Component 2 - US$4.50 million
Background on Skopje Komunalna Higiena's Operation
The project will help the KH  acquire new vehicles and equipment.  The background and the
sub-components of the project are described below:
Solid Waste Collection
The estimated population in Skopje is about 600,000 of which approximately 90% receive a regular waste
collection service. The waste collection service is operated by the municipal enterprise, K-H that serves
about 130,000 households. The estimated daily quantity of solid waste collected by KH from households is
500t.
The remaining 10% of the city (60,000 inhabitants), about 10,000 households, have no regular waste
collection service. The KH refers to these areas as receiving a 'substandard' service, which usually
involves the irregular collection of waste from piles, communal containers and in some places, Sm' 'skip'
containers. The Skopje municipality, with strong support from the mayor, wants the waste collection
arrangements in these areas brought up to the same standard enjoyed by the other residents of the city.
The waste service undertaken in most of the city is divided into two different systems. In 38 'blocks' across
the city (each block generally represents one shift of work for one vehicle involving two return trips to the
landfill), waste storage containers each with a volume of 1. Im are used. This is known as an 'end of street'
collection system, since householders take their waste to a communal waste storage point where one or
more of these containers are located. The containers are emptied daily or every second day.
-47 -



The second system is the use of 120-litre wheeled bins located one per household in predominantly detached
housing residential areas. This system is known as the 'kerbside' collection system because on collection
days householders wheel their bins to the kerbside to await emptying. There are 10 'blocks' in the city
where this system has been introduced and waste is collected twice or three times per week.
KH has 26 vehicles dedicated to waste collection from households. This fleet is aging rapidly with 65% of
the trucks now over 7 years old and 58% over 10 years old. On a typical day the city has about 18 trucks in
operation (69% of the fleet). The remainder are in need of repair. With only 18 trucks on the road
(assuming an average St of waste in each truck), each vehicle has to make up to 6 return trips (34km) to the
landfill each day. This involves round the clock, three-shift working. There is little margin left in the
operations to remove all of the daily waste production from 90% of the city if more vehicles breakdown.
Consequently, the waste service that KH can provide is stretched to the limit and with an aging vehicle fleet
it is only a matter of time before the accumulated vehicle problems make the waste collection system fail in
Skopje.
Waste containers
The majority of the city has end of street waste collection using 4,700 communal waste containers (I.1 Im
capacity). KH have commented that they have a shortfall of 400 containers in order to provide adequate
coverage of containers across the 38 city blocks that have this collection system. In addition there is a need
to replace about 1,800 containers that are deformed and cannot be repaired. KH also wants to extend the
end of street collection system to the 10% of the city area that has an irregular waste collection service. An
additional 510 containers would be required for this purpose.
Street sweeping and washing
Currently, KH cleans 5 166 881 m2 of the city's street surface, about 50% of the paved areas. The City
operates two waste sweeping vehicles, one seven years old (1.5 mn capacity) and the other fifteen years old
(5 rn3 capacity). In addition, eight hand-operated street sweeping vacuum machines were acquired last year
for the use in the main public areas. KH uses ten water tankers for road washing. All are very old, ranging
between 15 and 29 years and their reliability is low. They all need to be replaced at the earliest opportunity.
These water tankers are also used to deliver drinking water to villages around Skopje during drought
conditions in the summer.
Drisla landfill
Drisla sanitary landfill is located 17 kmns east of Skopje and all the municipal waste of the city goes to the
landfill. The landfill, constructed in 1994, is located in a valley with a total area of approximately 76
hectares. At the current rate of filling (around 5OOt/day) the site has a remaining life of about 30 years.
The operation is described as a canyon type landfill where the base area available for landfilling increases
with rising waste depth. Waste is deposited in 2.5 m lifts and covered routinely with 0.3 m of inert cover.
Waste emplacement is undertaken in a small working area, with tipped waste immediately compacted by
two bulldozers.
-48 -



The operation of the landfill was reviewed extensively under funding from EU Phare. There were no
environmental concerns related to the landfill that should satisfactorily retain deposited wastes in a sound,
sustainable and monitored manner. It is a textbook example of an intermediate engineered landfill. The
European Union is discussing with the Skopje municipal authorities the possibility of installing a landfill
gas collection system and to generate electricity for on-site use and export to the nearest villages using the
existing local power distribution grid. The EU funded review of the landfill also recommended a systematic
monitoring program of the groundwater and leachate to identify any potential problems of groundwater
contamination.
The site has no scavengers and is located several hundred meters from the nearest isolated houses. Waste
trucks reach the tipping area via a semi permanent paved haul road around the edge of the site. The site
has a weighbridge to weigh all incoming loads and an extensive maintenance facility to service and repair
mechanized equipment. The depth of the waste after the landfill has ceased operation is expected to be 100
m. The plan is to complete the site as a domed landform to minimize excess water infiltration
The landfill is located on a clay stratum and the low permeability of the soil reduces the risk of ground
water contamination from vertical migration of the leachate. There is lateral migration of leachate which
has not yet caused any environmental concerns. The Drisla company would want to improve the leachate
management as leachate levels are rising with increasing wastes. The company plans to construct a
leachate collection system to prevent contamination of the surface water drainage system. The company
also has plans to pretreat the leachate aerobically before it is discharged off site, but construction has not
taken place yet. By constructing the pretreatment facility for the leachate, the landfill will meet the criteria
set by the European Union Council Directive 1999/3 1/EC of 26 April 1999 on the landfill of waste.
The landfill has seven piezometers installed in and around the site to monitor the quality of the underlying
groundwater. No pollution of the groundwater has been detected. The site has been designed to direct
upslope surface rainfall runoff to pass around the site in a culvert. This is a typical approach used widely
in the former Yugoslavia and elsewhere. Sometimes, however, it can provide a route for uncontrolled
leachate discharge from a landfill, or infiltration of surface drainage water into the site, if the integrity of
this culvert fails. An investigation should be undertaken to assess the possibility of directing surface
rainwater runoff around the edge of the site rather than under it.
Part B: Skopje Solid Waste Component
The project includes the following two sub-components to address the above issues.
B.l Technical Assistance (US$0.3 million): The TA will include: i) development of a strategy and an
action plan for the future development of the solid waste sector in Skopje, including an assessment of the
introduction of the private sector. Completion of this strategy by June 30, 2002 is a covenant under the
Loan/Credit (US$ 0.2 million); ii) monitoring of the Drisla landfill (US$ 0.1 million).
B.2   Urgent Investments (US$ 4.2 million): An assessment of the KH highlighted the fact that the
present vehicle fleet is old and subject to constant break-downs which affects the quality of service. The
lack of vehicles also prevents KH from expanding service to the outskirts of the city which are mainly
inhabited by minorities. These urgent investments represent the minimum level of affordable intervention
required to prevent an imminent decline of existing services, to enable an extension of services to currently
under-served low-income groups and provide a small margin of spare capacity for contingencies. These
investments will include the purchase of 28 trucks for waste collection, about 2,800 waste containers, two
sweeping vehicles, 10 vacuum sweepers, and 15 water tankers.
-49 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 1.20 million
Part C: Project Management Unit (PMU)
This component consists of the following four sub-components:
C.1 Refinancing of the PPF (US$ 0.6 million): The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount of
US$600,000 was extended in June 1999. It will be refinanced from the proceeds of the IDA credit.
C.2 Auditors' Fees (US$ 0.1 million): Provision has been made under the project for financing the
auditors' fees during the project implementation penrod.
C.3 Consultants' Services (US$ 0.3 million): Provision has been made to fund consultants' services
required for studies related to wastewater treatment, solid waste management and other needs that may
arise during project implementation.
C.4 Incremental Expenses of the PMU (US$ 0.2 million): This sub-component covers the incremental
expenses of the PMU resulting from the project including the project's share of personnel costs for PMU
staff assigned to work on the project, translation and interpretation services, secretarial services, and
supplies.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
Local       Foreign       Total
PByct C!ost y 2nm_por_nt                US $million   US $.Won  UQS rilon
Skopje - Water and Wastewater                            8.00        19.00        27.00
Skopje - Solid Waste                                     0.10         2.80         2.90
Project Management Unit Support (including refinancing of  0.30       0.70          1.00
PPF)
Import Duties and Other Taxes                            3.80         0.00         3.80
Value Added Tax (VAT)                                    6.00         0.00         6.00
Total Baseline Cost                                     18.20        22.50        40.70
Physical Contingencies                                  0.20         0.60         0.80
Price Contingencies                                     0.30         0.40         0.70
Total Project Costs             18.70        23.50        42.20
Front-end fee                   0.20         0.20
Total Financing Required             18.70        23.70        42.40
Local       Foreion       Total
PI4ect Cost By category                US $million   US $mKilon !
Goods                                                      1.50         11.30        12.80
Works                                                     16.00          8.50        24.50
Services                                                   1.20          3.70         4.90
0.00                       0.00
Total Project Costs    18.70         23.50        42.20
Front-end fee                   0.20         0.20
Total Financing Required    18.70         23.70        42.40
- 51 -



RTtG5; i0EB             m)NU  RUN
cxsr                                F_ _        _ N        _    _    _
DEBOWrNa                         Bm  R    lsial  Rkb    Dias&    WT  Tdal Cod   EF-                    Govt aC A W d      Tcla
OC   Ccut  Cort                          ..d  .                      Ca*.  I   Rwh
Tam               AT
A SHEVP1EAICWl 1BPA1DBRCNT
Al ktM kwesknerEs
FeedEWbr           xtCnRhnAe                          69;   70   64   108  15B   109
Cdclrb11hbberPe A                                      301      30      33       47      89       48)
Co icrand S     Mainfor   a                            352      35      39       55      81       5E
SU                                                1,349     135     136      211     308      Z138      .       1        211      470      Z138
Sbrvwalerad s~                                      Z40B      -       -        312    458       3,178
WE* rDY b iol NA UkR                                 Z655      -        -       345     S4       3,54
NaNmanatN*wSked                                        354     -       -         46      67       467
NN      \cd    eer etr* ae3                            270     -       -         35      51       aB
ht;n d*ekprT                                           88      -       -         12      17       117
DsWniekn                                                88     -        -        12      17       117
Salu                                                45A83     -       -        72   1,114      7,739      -      5,277     72    1,700      7,739
To afr MLWksbknr s                                 7,212     135     136      973   1,42      9,877      -      6735      973    Z170      9,877
A2 Opa       JF)                                    16,!B5     -        -      Z157   3,153    21,905   12,637    2299   2,157    4,813    21,905
A3 V\hllmtrhzAsg
TeAstorCa*ah#iAnd Sk*Tas                               350      35      28       -       78       491
Vo&\od P        Fditg (Mbqtni                        1,8X)    159      12D      230     335      2,335
Tci     iVdadl*rL*                                  1,S      18       148      230     415      y         .      1,965     230      633     2B
A4 BEmQardCiM  &wnSuv
Bvei,g s                                               535      53      43       -      120       751
CiSk 4Sa'XSfs                                           E       5B      47       -      131       818
TUtrEng.&Cart&StpSwib                               1,117    111       90      -       2D      1B         '      1,186     -        382     1,6
A5 Pilth,M ard h                  wtsL                 300      30      21       -       67       418       -       316      -        1(2      418
Todi @a                 6W       ;C     o          27,074    461      395    3,360   5,307    3B657   12 Z3         O 12   3,360    410    367
- 52 -



RECTCOSrEATESAGDRWCI RAN
DCSIEJ                           Be   Ph  eRw  DLtis&  VAT TOWlCod  E                            V    Ga,t Vobvd  ToU
cut    Cat    Cat          bd                                         COrt    I        Fbic
___________________________                               ~~~~~~Taos         VA
B E
al TtdW*AeU
S1iUQblwt Sk                                            170      17       12               3B       237      179      -        -         5        237
DikLanI'Ma*riv                                           5        5       4                11        70      -                          70         70
TdcUrTech*dAsace bZ!                                            22      15               49       306       179      -        -       128       3D7
B2 Lhgmta weWw
TnS6G                                                 1,400     140      140      218     319     2,218
Ca M                                                    582      5                 91     133       g1
ThWid vekds                                              17       2       2         3       4        2;
Sw eft  whdes                                           20B      21      21        33      48       33)
Maunsea,sep                                              5B       6        6        9      13        92
vftrtrivs                                               375      38       38       5       8        sa4
Td     albrUthw n9r                                  2,40      264     264      412     GM       4182    2,904       -       412      856      4,182
TtbiSq*Sc1m CawaDu1                                  Z,860     25      2m9      412    581       4498     3pB3       -       412      994      4,4S9
C FELM%1AGEErL RraPr
G1 PaIinKiofPPF                                         600     -        -        -       -         60D      -        600      -        -         600
rG2 AL 's Fees                                          o100    10       10      -        23       143      1iD      -         23      -         143
C3Coa        Fees                                       20       20       20      -        46       25       1o      -        145      -         286
C4       FmE ,qMu          J                            100      10       10       16      23       15B       20      -       138       -          9
TbktrRcb J& SotCaxwt                                 1,Q00     40       40       16      91      1,187     3)        600     307      -        1,187
GRCIO1L                                            30,934     787     714    3,787   6,019    42272   16p00   1S,100   4,079    993    42,72
Bm*FmtEndFee                                          16D     -        -        -       -         160      100      -        -        -         160
IGW    1O TALi1xfBi                                31,094     787     714    3,787  69         42432   16,16D   13100   4,079    9P3    4243
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 42.4 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 69.1% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 4
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
A. Skopje Water and Wastewater Component
Economic benefits under the water and wastewater component would come principally from the increase in
operating efficiency and quality of water and wastewater services through the engagement of an
experienced, internationally reputed private Operator to take over the management and operations of the
utility. Efficiency gains from better planning, judicious investment selection and improved operations are
expected to result in greater cost effectiveness. Institutional strengthening would include improvements in
organizational structure, financial and commercial management, and public relations. Improvements in
quality of services are expected to be reflected in greater reliability, improved safety, and better availability
of water supply to citizens and other consumers, and from improved wastewater collection and treatment
without any additional discharge into international waterways.   The key  indicator by which the
performance of the Operator would be measured is the success in meeting the target of progressive
provision of 24-hour supply of water to all consumers at affordable prices.
Quantitative estimates of benefits is provided at this stage only for the prepared investments under Initial
Investments which have been fully defined. Other investments, including those under the Operating Fund,
would be assessed by the City and the Bank in regard to their technical, economic, financial and
environmental justification before they can be financed under the project.
Prepared Investments (US$ 2.1 million)
*   Feeder Line for the Hipodrom Residential Area: In the districts of Madzari, Hipodrom and Cento,
about 51,000 persons live in predominantly low-income multi-storey buildings. The area is served
through a single feeder main of 250mm diameter. A second feeder line of 600mm diameter and 2,500
m length would be constructed to secure and improve continuous water supply into the network. The
line will also supply water to villages on the eastem side of Skopje. sources. Without the project,
persons living on the upper floors of multi-storey buildings are deprived of continuous water over long
periods particularly in the summer months. Persons living downstream have to use unreliable
groundwater sources. With the project, water supply would be improved to about 20,000 persons in
the area and another 13,000 persons downstream of the area. The additional water sold is estimated at
665,000 m3 with an average consumption level of 140 Ipcd for the 13,000 consumers. The 20,000
consumers would have more continuous supply but the benefits have not been quantified. The water
sales are valued at current tariff rates.
Total costs (excluding taxes and duties) are US$0.83 million (US$0.79 million at constant prices of
2001). The estimated indicators are NPV = US$0.3 million; ERR = 17 %.
*   Collector for the 11th October Residential Area: The area was built shortly after the earthquake in
1968. A temporary wastewater pumping station conveys sewage from the area into a collector in the
City. The collector, of 400mm and 500mm diameter and length 1200m will link the area by gravity to
the existing main. Without the project, it would be necessary to continue the operation of the pumping
station whose efficiency is low and operating costs are high. After construction of the collector, the
existing pumping station will become obsolete and can be closed down, leading to operating cost
savings. The annual cost savings of about US$15,500 are estimated as follows: energy savings
- 54 -



US$5,500 (0.lkWh/m3 of flow x 775,000 m3 x US$0.07/ kWh); personnel cost savings US$5,000 (3
operators x US$150/ month x 12 months); and materials and parts savings US$5,000.
Total costs (excluding taxes and duties) are estimated at US$0.36 million (US$0.34 million at constant
prices of 2001). The estimated indicators are: NPV = - US$0.1 million; ERR = 5 %. Although the
economic rate of return is lower than the commonly used threshold of 12%, it should be recognized that
the non-quantifiable environmental and public health benefits of the component have not been factored
in the calculations.
*   Collector and Sewer Main for the Madzari and Sindzelic Areas. Three temporary wastewater
pumping stations currently serve these areas. The stations have limited capacity, low efficiency and
high operating costs. The project provides for construction of a collector of diameter 900mm and
length 1200m to the existing main pumping station and a second main sewer of 400mm diameter and
length 220m to collect wastewater from uphill areas and transport it to the planned 900mm diameter
main. After these are constructed, the three temporary pumping stations can be eliminated. The
annual cost savings of US$60,000 are estimated as follows: energy savings US$22,000 (0.1 kWh/m3
of flow x 320,000 m3 x US$0.07/kWh); personnel cost savings US$18,000 (10 operators x
US$150/month x 12 months); and materials and parts cost savings US$20,000.
Total costs (excluding taxes and duties) are estimated at US$0.43 million (US$0.41 million in constant
prices of 2001). The estimated indicators are: NPV = US$0.3 million; ERR = 22 %.
Other Urgent Investments (US$ 9.8 million)
These investments would have to be fully defined by the Vodovod and a complete justification would have
to be provided to the Bank before the investments can be implemented. Originally, it was intended that the
OC will implement these investments. However, during project negotiations, the Vodovod explained that
preliminary work on these investments has been completed and delaying the investments until the OC is
hired would defer the benefits. The Bank agreed that these investments could take place as long as they
were fully justified on economic and technical grounds. Unused funds under this category would be shifted
to the Operating Fund to be used by the OC.
Preliminary analysis of these investments indicate that they are justified and a short explanation is provided
for each investment: (i) it is difficult to quantify the benefits of the stormwater collectors (US$ 3.2 million)
but they are needed to prevent the flooding of streets during the rainy season which has environmental and
public health benefits; (ii) the water distribution network rehabilitation (US$ 3.5 million) will help to
replace sections of the network that break-down constantly.  The average break-down is about 2
times/year/kilometer which is almost ten times the rate of break-downs in well run Western European
utilities. Areas that have constant break-downs are already identified and the Vodovod will replace the
pipes in these localities; (iii) the construction of the new main in Nakov Street (US$ 0.5 million) will help
to better optimize water pressure in the locality and provide more continuous service; (iv) the reservoir and
feeder line at Usje village (US$ 0.1 million) will provide more continuous water service to 1,200 citizens.
The investments would also allow an increase in storage capacity to meet demands for fire fighting; (v) the
pilot irrigation well investment (US$ 0.1 million) will help to develop a program by which groundwater
could be used to clean streets and irrigate parks in the City. Through the well development program,
potable spring water - currently used for park irrigation and street cleaning - could be conserved or utilized
to increase peak capacity of the network; (vi) the purchase of district meters (IJS$ 1.0 million) will help
the Vodovod to better monitor the network and optimize its use.
- 55 -



Operating Fund (US$ 21.9 million)
The investments under the Operating Fund will be defined by the OC which has to justify to the Bank and
the Skopje City that the investments are justified on technical, economic, and environmental grounds on an
annual basis. The investments would be used for a) water network efficiency improvements; b)
rehabilitation of the existing water, sewerage and storm water network; and c) possible extension of
services in the outskirts of the City that are currently served by private wells. The Operating Fund will
also be used to address, where economically justified, concerns raised by consumers. While consumers are
not concemed about the potable nature of the water, there are concems related to irregular service in
certain areas; lack of responsiveness of the Vodovod on service calls; environmental concems related to
sewage overflow; hardness of the water; and presence of chlorine, sand and turbidity in the water.
A vital element for the realization of the economic benefits would be the proper balancing of the interests of
the contracting parties under the lease arrangement. The proper design and implementation of the
contractual provisions would be a key factor in assuring a successful outcome of the arrangement and will
ensure that the investments are economic in nature. The summary of the Shareholders Agreement and
Lease Contract is presented below:
Shareholder's Agreement
The Agreement will be between the Skopje City and an intemational experienced Operator, selected on a
competitive basis, to establish an Operating Company (OC). The key features are:
(i) the City will remain the owner of the existing network assets;
(ii) in the OC, the Operator will own at least 51% share. The City will own a maximum of 49% share.
Provisions in the agreement will allow the Operator to buy-out the City's share. In regard to the initial
equity of the OC, the City will contribute in kind the operating assets transferred from the existing
Vodovod (preliminarily valued at about US$2 million) and the Operator will contribute in cash as required
to bring its share to 51%;
(iii) the Operator will have full responsibility for the day to day management and operations of the OC,
including that of selection of management and staff for the OC: Decisions in regard to daily operational
matters will require only a simple majority of the shareholders; and
(iv) key decisions, e.g. in regard to increase/decrease of capital, borrowing and repayment of funds, annual
operating and capital expenditure budgets, would require a two-thirds majority and consequently cannot
take place without the City's approval.
(v) since almost all matters conceming operating expenses (e.g. organizational structure, number of
employees, appointment of managers, collection of revenues) can be decided by a simple majority, the
Operator would have the required flexibility in introducing efficiency improvements to decrease expenses
and improve cash flow and profitability. At the same time, the City will have adequate control in
safeguarding its interests in other matters related to the functioning of the OC.
(vi) the City, as a shareholder, will benefit if the profitability of the OC increases. Thus, the City has an
incentive to support the Operator which will try to run operations efficiently.
- 56 -



(vii) if the Shareholder's Agreement is terminated, before the end of the contract period, the City would be
committed to purchasing the Operator's shares in the OC at a fair market price to be determined by
independent auditors/valuers. This approach is expected to provide an added motivation for the Operator
who would have the power, through its simple majority rights, to run operations efficiently and share them
with the City. Higher efficiency, reflected in a higher share value will result in a higher final payment.
Lease Contract
The contract will be between the Operating Company (OC) and the Vodovod, on behalf of the Skopje City.
The key features of the contract will be:
(i) the leased matter would be all immovable water, wastewater, and stormwater assets. An inventory of
these assets would be attached to the contract. The use of the Rasche springs, the main source of water for
Skopje, would be under the control of the Vodovod;
(ii) the period of the agreement would be for not less than ten years, with the option to renew;
(iii) separate operating areas would be defined for water supply, wastewater collection, and storm-water
drainage;
(iv) the OC would be responsible to pay the agreed lease fee in agreed instalments on schedule;
(v) the OC will be responsible to provide water and sanitation services within the agreed service areas in
compliance with applicable Macedonian regulations and standards;
(vi) the OC will develop annual investment plans for water and sanitation services to meet the agreed
targets;
(vii) the OC will be responsible for setting up, at its own expense, an efficient organization to operate,
maintain and manage the water supply and wastewater systems, including all equipment and facilities, and
to maintain standards not below agreed levels; a strict segregation of the investments of the owner (those
for immovable assets) and of the OC (assets that promote efficiency of operation, e.g. automation of
pumnping, energy efficiency improvements) is expected to allow a clear distinction of interests;
(viii) the OC will be responsible to set up a Consumer Service office to ensure that the concerns of the
citizens are taken into account while developing quality service;
(ix) at the termination of the lease, the assets of the OC would belong to it, with the City having the right
of first refusal to purchase; and
(x) from the City, the OC will inherit the same rights and responsibilities as the Vodovod to access private
property to remedy technical defects, record water consumption, and disconnect nonpaying customers.
A traditional economic analysis performed in Bank projects cannot be performed in this case since the
investments are not yet defined. However, the design of the lease contract, particularly the use of the
investment surcharge, will ensure that the project finances investments that are economic in nature and
serves the interest of the City and the OC. Although the responsibility of the paying back the Loan/Credit
lies with the Vodovod, through the lease fee, the OC depends on the revenues collected through the tariffs
- 57 -



and would resist any tariff increase through the surcharge that would reduce earnings. Thus, the tariff
would provide the economic test through the willingness of consumers to pay for the investments.
To protect the municipality from uneconomic use of capital by the OC, the lease fee and the tariff should be
well structured. The term sheet of the lease contract, that has been approved by the City council proposes
that:
*   the lease fee will include two elements: (i) a fixed basic element, and (ii) a dynamic element related to
surcharge of investments. The fixed element is the amount that the OC will have to pay the City as per
the bid of the Operator. The dynamic element would be the surcharge on investments that the OC will
collect and pass on to the City. The amount of the annual surcharge will be determined on the basis of:
(i) the required annual contribution to project financing from intemal funds of the utility; and (ii)
cost-recovery of the investments over the economic life of the investments.
*   the tariff is envisaged to consist of three independent parts satisfying the needs of the contracting
parties: (i) the basic fixed element of the tariff, as agreed by the City in the bidding documents, which
does not change; (ii) an adjustment provision based on agreed formulae to account for changes in the
environment, e.g inflation, increase in energy prices or other unforeseen events; and (iii) investment
surcharge which will be defined through formulae to cover debt service, internal cash requirements for
counterpart funds, and depreciation over the life of the investments.
These above provisions in the lease fee and tariffs are expected to provide an adequate balance of the
interests of the contracting parties. To avoid the surcharge, the OC will focus more on increasing
operational efficiency and making economic investments to maximize profits. The City also does not have
an incentive to suggest uneconomic investments since the surcharge will increase tariffs. It is not in the
interest of the City to increase tariffs that cannot be justified to the citizens or there is no willingness to pay.
The City is also covered for investments made since the surcharge in the lease fee will provide for debt
service, counterpart funds, and depreciation.
B. Skopje Solid Waste Component
With Project
Immediate economic benefits under the solid waste component would come from (i) improvements in the
quality of services provided to currently served areas, (ii) the extension of services to areas currently
under-served or not served. The extension of services to an estimated 10% of the City's population would
improve the quality of life and environment especially for citizens with low income; and (iii) the
replacement of vehicles and equipment that are beyond their useful life would enable more regular and
complete services to customers currently served while enabling some savings in operational expenses due to
reduced repair and maintenance.
- 58 -



The study to define a strategy and action plan for solid waste management services in Skopje would
complement existing studies that have been carried out in assessing the appropriate organizational and
institutional structure for increasing efficiency and quality of services for the solid waste sector in Skopje.
The strategy would look into options of combining the operations of Komunalna Higiena (the municipal
company responsible for waste collection and transportation) and Drisla (the landfill company) for
economies of scale and introducing the private sector.
Without Project
If a 'do nothing' alternative was followed, the outcome can be reasonably foreseen. Uncollected waste
would become more evident for longer periods in the residential areas creating an environmental and human
health hazard. It is likely that the deterioration of services would not be uniform with peri-urban areas
probably being affected first as the core of a reliable waste service is in the central area of the City. The
peri-urban areas are typically inhabited by the poor. At present about 10% of the population has a
substandard and unreliable waste collection service. In effect, they are not part of the formal waste
collection system operated by KH. It will not be possible to bring these areas up to the same standard as
the rest of the City unless additional equipment is made available through an emergency intervention.
Waste collection is typically regarded as an important part of safeguarding public health from waste-related
problems but it is not the only one. Another aspect that should be considered is street sweeping and street
washing (collectively known as 'street cleansing'). The prevailing situation with street cleansing is almost
identical to that for waste collection. Little or no investment in replacement equipment has led to municipal
concern about accumulations of waste littering the streets, particularly in suburban areas and residential
apartment districts. There are just two street sweeping vehicles available, both over 7 years old, and eight
hand-controlled street vacuum machines. Manual sweeping and litter picking is also undertaken.
The municipal authorities have ten water tankers (from two manufacturers) for road washing, whose
average ages range between 15 and 29 years old. Together, the City only has the capacity to cleanse, at
varying frequencies, about 50% of the paved area. The peri-urban and outlying areas are the first to be
excluded from this service as the availability of equipment declines due to age and where no new manual
labor is made available.
- 59 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
PROJECT FNANCNG PLAN
(US$ 000)
IBRD       IDA      Govt  VodovodlKH   Total
A SkopeWaterandWastewaterComponent             12,637    12,500    3,360        8,100    36,597
B. Skoje Solid Wasle Component                  3,083       -        412         993      4,488
C. Prjed Management Unit Component               280       600       307         -        1,187
D. Front-End Fee                                 160        -        -           -         160
Total Financing                              16,160    13,100    4,079       9,093    42,432
- 60 -



ICObE STAT9EENIS
On US$ 000)
1990      2000      2001        2   20     03      2004       2006      2006       2X07      2008      2006       201
CATNG FEVENLES
Donaic                                         5851      6,735     6,758      7,587     8,350      8,878     a,36      8,408      8,eD4     8,799      8,995     9,210
Inslujn                                         523       588        591       862        729       775       780        734       751        768       785       804
Irnisby                                        7,056     7,973     8.009      8,932     9,884    10,59    10,579       9,954    10,185    10,417    10,648      10,03
Gms evaeues                                 13,53     1586      15,3.6    17,231     18,983    2D,162    20,295    19,036    19,540      19,985    20,429    2D,917
Less TrsaW ato puainvar1y                      2,977     3,65      3,380      3,791     4,172     4,436      4,465     4,21       4,99      4,397     4,494      4,602
Nstopqee     monus                          10,553    11,931     11,935    13,440    14,791     15,726    15,830    14,895    15,242      15,588    15,934    16,315
OERATNG E-XPNSES
Ene9y                                           767       801        819       838        857       877       897        918       939        961       983      1,905
MaEs ad rnaS3 58                                          594        eo7       621        636       65D       6S5 60               696        712       72B       745
S aesa    r vdaes                             5,232      5,465     5591       4,362     4,036      4,190     4,2i6     4,385      4,486     4,589      4,694     4j22
Owbenraf                                       1,533     1,602     1,839      1,425         0 ,2D  1,28      1E6       1285       1,315     1345       1,37      1,408
O4wopera%'geqees                                812       848        8S8       888       90         929       950        972       994      1,017      1,041     1jO15
Depecadon axrFp           asetr                1,616     1,61S     1,616      1,616     1,616      1jS16     1,616     Im6e       1,716     1,766      1,B16     1,366
Deciai- onp*e        _                                                 6       154        640      1,354     1,905     1,905      1X5       1,905      1,905     1,905
PuMbv,f bad dd                                2,029      1,5ao     1,537      1226        948       806       609        573       586       600        613       63
ToM opma&v 0pues                            12558      12,455    12683     11,609    10,901     11,651     12,185    1Z384     1Z637      12B94     13,156     1a424
OPEATNG ICOME                                 (ZQ04)      (524)     (697)    1,831      3,890     4,076      3,645     2,511     Za64       2,693      Z778      Z892
Inteestpense                                    -          -          49       187        191       419       831        969       913        838       784       6S9
NETr IOME                                     (2,584)     (524)     (747)     1,644     3,6B9     3,657      Z814      1,542      1,692     1,855      Z014      Z202
KEYFNANCIAL RATIOS
WVi1ckal ob(D)                                  1.04       0.91      0.92      0.73       0.58      0.55       0.55      0.59      0.59       0.59      0.59      0.
Operaft rabD (/6)                               1.19       1.04      1.06      0.86       0.74      0.74      0.77       0.83      0.83       0.83      O.3       08
CdeonIraoCD.)                                     85        90        90         93        95         96        97        97         97        97        97
A,eatEiffw       eU -d-M (S$4n3)                          0.344     0,344     0363       0.343     0354      0.374      0.387     0397       0.407     OA17       0.42
Sufd0h eb ftr   Ibwtg (US$m3)                            O.OO       0.002     0019       0.064     0.05     0.041      0.00    0Qooo        0.000     0.000      0.
hJforir iestr.antS$vey (US$4n3)                          0.000      0.030     0.006      0.02D     0.035     0.043      0.043     0.043      0.043     0.043      0.04
Avae  tai*wh msjd-x    (SSin3)                            0.344     0.346     0388       0.427     0.454     0.457      0.430     0.440      0.450     0.4S0      0.471
Towserse(nmi3)                                 43.79     44.41      44.41     44A1       44.41     44.41     44.41      4441      4441       44.41     44.41     44.41
NdSC Cclelo ribD Ei cdciatd astt  arII cocdbm   .9ducg fo pad yea   ams) dmed by amst yew bkigs
Arid sti        s caJae as (am"  zwrd ax*bAbn to prre Iiniv + annid deprmciaib an pIroed krre 'ts)
*Kled byd w&me of aTld w saes.
- 61 -



SKOPJE VODOVOD
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(USS 000)
2001     2002      2003      2004       2005      2006     2007      2008     2009      2010
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Income before interest and taxes              (697)    1,831     3,890     4,076      3,645    2,511     2,604    2,693    2,778     2,892
Depreciation                                 1,622     1,770     2,256     2,970      3,521    3,571     3,621    3,671     3,721    3,771
Intemally generated tunds                    925    3,601      6,146      7,046     7,166     6,082    6,225     6,364    6,499     6,663
Govemment contnbubon                            28      354      1,164      1,189      625       -         -        -         -        -
IBRD loan (including 1% front-end fee)         126      -          -       8,170      4,468
IDA credit                                     88    2,688       8,850       873        -
Total sources                               1,168    6,643    16,160    17,278     12,259     6,082    6,225    6,364    6,499      6,663
USES OF FUNDS
Project expenditures (excluding duties & VAT)  238    2,987      9,833    10,048      5,281           -             -         -        -
Dubesand VAT                                   73       912      3,002     3,068      1,612           -             -         -        -
Non-project investments'
IBRD loan repayment                            -        -          -         -          -        532     1,064    1,064     1.064    1,064
IDA credit repayment                                          -         -         -         -         -             -         -        -
Interestandservicecharges                      49       187       191        419       831       969      913       838      764       689
Changes in working capital and cash balances'  807    2,556      3,133     3,744      4,534    4,581     4,249    4.463    4,672     4,910
Total uses                                  1,168    6,643    16,160    17,278     12,259     6,082    6,225    6,364    6,499    6,663
Notes:   The annual changes in working capital and cash balances can be utilized by the Operabng Company
to pay the lease fee or to carry out additional investments as may be agreed with Skopje City.
- 62 -



S4CPNE IqMLNAH138A
NCOMESrATEMENTS
(S$Ww
2WOo      2XO1       2e2        2003      2o04       2005       DOS       2C0        2D08       2FC9       2010 
CPEAlN3 1LIAM
Qva lt h    hWks s                         4,379     4,39       5,474      5,600      5,729     5,861      5995       6,t33      6274      6,419      6,5S66
Atnalb    h1hci swe                                                55        280       573        586        6D0       613        62         642        657
wsy ard MYO                                1,730      1,730     Z163       22t3       2283      2,316      2359       Z423       Z479      2536       Z5D4
OXrwvnus                                   1,S!       I =2      1,910      1,954      15S9       2.045     209        Z140       2189      Z240       Z291
Lem Transres bDia                          864        8S4       1,08      1,105      1,131      1,157     1,183      1;tO       1Z238      1,%7       12D6
TocW pm*vmvnmes                           6m77      e,7         ,S7       86S3a                9,065      9Z7        94a         9        9A        10,1S6
OPER41NGE)5PENES
MA%s ad .ie                                1,15#      1,154      1,181     1;(18      I,3       1IS4       1293       1,323      1,354      1,%5       1,416
PLrsed smAes                                413        413        423       432        442        453        463       474        485        4S6        507
lDur ^       ID nsl a fian anet aflhbe)     426        426        435        445       456        466        477       488        499        510        522
Adtb- dring fes b Dtia                                  -          22        45         46         47         48         49        5D         51         52
Stafleqwses                                A406       3,406     3,4B       3S54       3,646     3,730      3816       3,904      3XS4      4,D6       4,180
Cow l    rteqnm                             922        922        943        9te5      987      1tD9       1p3        1,056      1g081      1,tO      t,131
Dep                                         888  898  M          1,241     1,347      1,347      1,347     1,347      1,347      1,347      1,347      1,347
Powsim for batd dbt                         677        677        Me         693       620        544        464       474        4e5        496        508
TOM      eVne5g                           7,8S       7,e9      4t         8,69       SM         km        AM         9,115      9293      9RG         9,663
OPEPATF1GNC:E                             (1,123)    (1,123)      (24)       (38)       8t        205        333        372       411        452        493
IrtmdEwSes                                   -           2         93        197       223        223        2t6       200        182        163        145
N     anx.t  wms                           1,787
N-nq-xr eW                                  759
NErTROINE                                    P%       1,125      (117)      M          ("    tt6             117    1 72   0                 288        348
WDt    ri (%)                             103        103        as         85         84        83         82         82         82        82        8&
WbCon r%)                                     90         90        91         92         93        94         95         95         95        95         9'
Ns i4&A   e*   ussi ard eqwses aswmed bDwm    ame l wkh hino at3 penst perye h U5S ms
A 25% hawe h tfamred ID be h ekict nyJarla  1, 2002a
S esmb akSfjx  hmwhdd s zrred b am      rw in 2D02wS vM t tbg nbn pa
2--20 -' d 1%ouwsd*Vmy            wk       nt hdblae      S%o5i2O3ard tO/ h2X4.
Ad.         dirpi k   pes riDb Drkb shv     2D02wkh tieh UomV  a
202 - 5% aerh 203 or 10%   M     omelg  Mm   baas*5
- 63 -



SKOPJE - KOMUNALNA HIGIENA
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(USS 000)
2001      2002     2003      2004     2005      2006      2007     2008      2009     2010
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Netincome before interest                             (1,123)     (24)      (38)      81       205       333      372       411      452       493
Depreciation                                            898      1,241    1,347     1,347     1,347    1,347     1,347    1,347     1,347     1,347
lnternallygeneratedfunds                               (225)    1,217    1,309     1,428    1,551     1,680     1,718    1,758     1,798    1,840
Government contribubon                                            309       103
IBRD loan                                                127    2,252       734       -        -         -        -         -         -        -
Total sources                                          (98)    3.778     2,146    1,428     1,551     1,680    1,718     1,758    1,798     1,840
USES OF FUNDS
Project expenditures (excluding duties & VAT)            150    2,460       815           -         -              -        -         -        -
Dutes & VAT                                               23      795       245                          -         -        -         -        -
IBRD loan repayment                                      -        -         -         -        -         130      259       259      259       259
Interest charges                                          2        93       197      223       223      346       459       441      423       405
Changes in working capital and cash balances            (273)     430       889     1,205    1,328     1,204     1,000    1,058     1,116     1,176
Total uses                                             (98)    3,778     2,146    1,428     1,551    1,680     1,718     1,758    1,798     1,840
- 64 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
Procurement
The components of the proposed project, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A of this annex. The procurement methods and prior review thresholds are presented in Table B of
this annex. Table B1 summarizes (i) the procurement management capacity of the Project Management
Unit (PMU) in the Ministry of Transport and Communication and the Project Unit (PU) in the Skopje
Vodovod and Komunalna Higienea (KH), and (ii) the proposed arrangements for proeurement and
monitoring. Table B2 presents a procurement plan detailing the packaging of items to be procured and the
estimated schedule of the major procurement actions. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been
published in the UN's Development Business dated February 28, 2001.
The Project Units (PUs) in the Skopje Vodovod and Komunalna Higiena were established in March 2001.
It is staffed by a Head of the PU, a Procurement Officer and a Project Accountant. The Head of the PU
reports to the Director of the Vodovod and Komunalna Higiena. The Project Management Unit (PMU) in
the Ministry of Transport and Communication was established in 1999. Among its responsibilities was the
monitoring and supervision of procurement and financial management under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) for this project. The PMU has procurement staff who are familiar with Bank procurement
guidelines through their involvement under the PPF.
Procurement in regard to the Skopje Vodovod and Komunalna Higiena will be carried out by their
respective PUs with assistance from the PMU as needed. The procurement capacity assessment of the
PMU has been completed. The PMU will be responsible for the procurement of the items under the PMU
Component of the project. It will provide advice and assistance as needed to the PUs in procurement and
financial management activities. The PMU will also be responsible for coordination of the overall Project
Management Reporting vis a vis the Bank, including the submission of consolidated reports on
procurement, financial management, and project implementation progress, for the project as a whole.
The Vodovod PU will be responsible for procurement of goods and services throughout the duration of the
project. After the formation of the Operating Company (OC), the Vodovod and OC will identify
investments that have to be approved by the City and the Bank. Provisions have been made under the
project for the Vodovod's PU to seek assistance of consultants for the preparation of the specifications,
designs and bidding documents for the goods, works and services to be procured under the project, and for
construction supervision. Procurement of all goods, works and services, financed through the IDA credit
and the IBRD loan will be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training would be procured in accordance
with the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for
Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used for the project.
- 65 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
0ES <S0;,'14x' Pourmt MeUod
1. Works                            7.40            11.10          0.20         0.00        18.70
(5.50)         (10.00)        (0.10)       (0.00)      (15.60)
2. Goods                            8.00             0.00          1.80         0.00         9.80
(8.00)          (0.00)        (1.80)       (0.00)       (9.80)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          3.10         0.00         3.10
(0.00)          (0.00)        (3.10)       (0.00)       (3.10)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00             0.00          0.20         0.00        0.20
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.20)
Incremental Operating Costs         0.00             0.00          0.20         0.00        0.20
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Refinancing                         0.00            0.00          0.60          0.00        0.60
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.60)       (0.00)       (0.60)
Total                            15.40           11.10          6.10          0.00       32.60
(13.50)         (10.00)        (5.80)       (0.00)      (29.30)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Credit. All costs include
contingencies.
" Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
* Duties and taxes are not included.
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) has recently been completed for FYR Macedonia and
the report is due by June 30, 2001. Consistent with recent Bank projects and the assessment of the
procurement capacity of the Borrower and the beneficiaries, it is reconmmended that for the proposed
project the following thresholds for each contract be used:
*   Procurement of Works. Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 800,000  will be
financed under International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB). Civil works contracts estimated
to cost less than US$ 800,000 may be procured through National Competitive Bidding procedures
(NCB) following Bank's sample bidding documents. Minor works contracts for urgent repair works
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 up to a total of no more than US$ 400,000 may be procured
using three quotations.
- 66 -



*   Procurement of Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods valued at more than US$ 100,000 will be
procured under ICB procedures. International Shopping (IS) may be used for goods required on an
urgent basis valued at US$ 100,000 or less per contract up to a total of no more than US$ 800,000.
National Shopping (NS) may be used for goods valued at US$ 20,000 or less per contract up to a total
of no more than US$ 100,000.
*   Procurement of Consulting Services. Recruitment of consulting firms for project implementation and
supervision services will be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines. For financial audits the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method will
apply. Individual consultants for providing short-term assistance to the project entities will be selected
based on qualifications in accordance with the Bank Guidelines (Section V-IC). Services for surveys
and studies related to public awareness, community relations, or similar activities may be procured
based on qualifications of consultants (CQ) where each contract is estimated to cost less than US$
100,000.
The incremental expenses of the PMU will be related to software, hardware, training, and costs related to
project implementation which will include expenses for office supplies and communication. These
expenses will be approved by the Bank on an annual basis.
All contracts awarded through ICB will be subject to prior review by IDA/IBRD. For works, the first two
NCB and the first three minor works packages will be subject to prior review. For goods, the first two IS
packages will be subject to prior review. With respect to services, prior IDA/IBRD review will be required
of all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value. For each contract with a consulting firm
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more, the technical evaluation report will be submitted to the IDA/IBRD
for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals. For contracts with individual consultants
costing US$ 50,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment
shall be furnished to the IDA/IBRD for review prior to contract signature. All other contracts will be
subject to ex-post review by the IDA/IBRD.
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Cate    _          ICB               NCB                is               NS           Other Methods
_  l=  __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              ....    . .   . . . .   . .   . .. .. .. ..... ....
1. I Procurement     >$800,000         <$800,000           N/A               N/A            <$100,000
Thresholds                        up to US$10.0                                       up to $0.4 million
million
1.2 Prior Review    All contracts       First two          N/A               N/A            First three
2.1 Procurement      >$100,000            N/A            <$ 100,000        <$20,000            N/A
Thresholds                                        up to US$0.8 mn    up to US$0. Imn
2.2 Prior Review    All contracts         N/A            First two           N/A               N/A
3.1 Prior Review   Prequalification and   N/A              N/A               N/A               N/A
QCBS               CQ            Individuals          LCS          Other Methods
4.1 Prior Review     >$100,000       All TORs, up to  >$50,000 otherwise    > $ 100,000        N/A
otherwise TOR     $0.38 million   TOR, up to $0.11
____  million
** Lease contract is not financed under the loan/credit. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank will provide guidance on
the pre-qualification and bidding procedures of the lease contract.
Ex-post Review will be conducted on I in 5 contracts during supervision mission.
- 67 -



Table Bi: Capacity of the Project Coordination Unit in Procurement
and Assistance Requirements in Procurement Monitoring System
A Capacity Assessment (CA) of the Borrower was carried out in June 1999 and updated in February 2000. Under the CA, an
action plan was agreed with the Project Management Unit (PMU) for strengthening its capacity for procurement activities
The PMU has experience in conducting competitive procurement under the Macedonian Public Procurement Law and has
gained experience in Bank procurement requirements over the period of two years by being responsible for procurement under
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The PUs in Skopje Vodovod and KH will be required to carry out similar training
programs to strengthen their procurement capabilities. This will include an intensive works procurement training program in
ILO Turin or some other suitable facility. A project launch workshop will be held prior to Effectiveness. Progress in
enhancement of procurement capacity will be monitored during supervision. The PMU will provide guidance and assistance
to the PUs as needed in procurement related matters.
Country Procurement Assessment Report status:        Are the bidding documentsfor the procurement actionsfor
thefirst year ready by negotiations:
A CPAR has recently been completed for FYR Macedonia and The bidding documents for Prepared Investments under the
the report is due by June 30, 2001.                   Initial Investments are ready.
TRAINING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated Date of    Date of publication of Indicate if there is  Domestic Preference   Domestic Preference
Project Launch       General Procurement procurement subject to for Goods:            for Works, if
Workshop:            Notice:              mandatory SPN in                            applicable:
09/15/2001           02/28/2001      Development Business: No                    N/A
YesI
Retroactive Financing: No    Project Preparation Facility: Yes             Advance Procurement:
Explain:                                                                                 Yes
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Project Units (PUs) have been set up in the Skopje Vodovod and Komunalna Higiena (KH). They will be responsible for the
implementation of the Skopje water and wastewater and the Skopje solid waste components under the project, including
procurement. In the first year of project implementation, the PMU in the Ministry of Transport and Communication will
review all procurement activities under the project in relation to its own component as well as for the Skopje water and
wastewater and solid waste components, prior to transmission of procurement documents to the Bank. The PU's capacity on
procurement will be strengthened during project implementation and the PMU will continue to assist the PU as needed.
Consolidated reporting vis a vis the Bank will remain the responsibility of the PMU to which the PUs will be required to
submit the relevant information on a regular basis.
All project documentation which requires prior review will be cleared by a PAS and the relevant technical staff. Throughout
project implementation, procurement information will be collected and recorded by the PMU and submitted to IDA/IBRD in
the quarterly Project Management Reports. This information would include: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time for individual
contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
Advanced procurement for the selection of the contractors to implement the Prepared Investments under the Initial
Investments of the project will be carried out, following Bank procedures. However, the contracts are not expected to be
signed before the Loan/Credit becomes effective.
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
No co-financing is planned.
SECTION 4: PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsiblefor the procurement in the Project:
Name: Takao Ikegami (PAS), Sr. Sanitary Engineer, (202) 473-2334; tikegami@worldbank.org
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
No procurement service support is currently envisioned from the Resident Mission. If such capacity is developed in the
future, a possible role for the Resident Mission will be evaluated.
- 68 -



Table B2
Procurement Plan
Estimated    Estimated   Procurement  Invitation to  Submission  Contract   Contract
Component                      Type       number of      Costs
Contracts   'OOOUSD         Method          Bid        of Bids     Signing   Completion
A. Skopje Water and Wastewater Component
Al Initial Investments
Feeder line fbr Hipodrome Residential Area  CW            1           830          ICB           Jul-01      Aug-01      Sep-01      Dec-02
Collector for the I 1h October Residential  CW             1           364          NCB           Jul-01      Aug-01      Sep-01      Dec-02
Area
Collector and sewer main for Madzari-       CW             1          426           NCB           Jul-01      Aug-01      Sep-01      Dec-02
Sindelic Residential Areas
340m 1000mm diam. and 1300m 1200mm          CW             I          708           ICB          Nov-01       Dec-01      Feb-02      Dec-02
diam. Sava Kovacecic Street
670m 1200mmdiam. and 750m 1500mm            CW             I          443           NCB          Nov-01       Dec-01      Feb-02      Dec-02
diam. Provomaiska Street and Serbia Blvrd
900m 1000mm diam. Blvrd Stevskovski (in     CW             I           195          NCB          Nov-01       Dec-01      Feb-02      Sep-02
parallel with sewage collector)
530m 900mm diam. Makadonija Street          CW            1            177          NCB          Nov-01       Dec-01      Feb-02      Sep-02
Storm water drainange in Kozle Residential  CW            1           885           ICB          Dec-01       Feb-02      Mar-02      Mar-03
Area
Rehabilitation of Water Distribution Network  CW       Multiple       2,655       ICB/NCB    To be procured by the Vodovod between January 2002
and December 2003.
New Main 500mm diam. Nakov Street           CW             1           354          NCB          Nov-01       Dec-01      Feb-02      Oct-02
Construction of 600m3 water reservoir for   CW                         146          NCB          Mar-02       May-02      Jun-02      Dec-02
Usje Village                                               I
800m of 150mm diam. feeder line for Usje    CW            1            124          NCB          Mar-02       May-02      Jun-02      Dec-02
Village
Development of Inigation Wells              CW            1            88           NCB          Dec-01        Jan-02     Mar-02      Oct-02
Installation of District Meters            Goods           1           88            IS        To be procured by the Vodovod between January 2002
and December 2003.
A2 Investments under Operating Fund             CW         Multiple      13,276    ICBtNCB/SW/ To be procured between January 2003 and Decemuber
Goods                     3,319        IS/NS       2005 based on yearly procurement plan.
A3 Vodovod Restructuring Assistance
TA for Contract Implementation & Study   Consultant    Multiple       413        QCBS/CQ    To be procured between January 2002 and DecembeT
Tours                                                                                         2006 based on annual procurement plans.
Vodovod Restructuring                      Goods       Multiple       1,770    ICB/NCB/SW/ To be procured by the Vodovod between January 2003
Consultant                               IS/NS       and December 2003.
A4 Engineering and Construction Supervision
Services
Engineering Services                     Consultant    Multiple       631          QCBS       To be procured between January 2002 and December
2005 according to annual procurement plan.
Construction Supervision Services        Consultant    Multiple        687         QCBS       To be procured between January 2002 and December
2005 according to annual procurement plans.
A5 Project Implementation Support
Consultant Services &Training            Consultant    Multiple       351        QCBS/CQ    To be procured by the Vodovod between January 2002
and December 2005.
- 69 -



Table B2
Procurement Plan
B. Skopje Solid Waste Component
BI TA for Solid Waste Management Study       Consultant        1           199         QCBS          Sep-01       Nov-01      Dec-01      Jun-02
Drisla Landfill Monitoring               Govt. Lab.        1           59           NBF          Aug-01        Oct-01     Nov-01      Jun-05
B2 Urgent Investments
Trucks                                     Goods           I          1,680         ICB          Aug-01        Oct-01     Nov-01      Mar-02
Containers                                 Goods           1          698           ICB          Aug-01        Oct-01     Nov-01      Mar-02
Tankers                                    Goods           1          450           ICB          Aug-01        Oct-01     Nov-01      Mar-02
Other Vehicles                             Goods           1          340           ICB          Aug-01        Oct-01     Nov-01      Mar-02
C. Project Management Unit Support
Cl Refinancing of PPF                           n.a          n.a.         600           n.a.      The financing of PPF will take place soon after project
effectiveness.
C2 Auditors' fees                            Consultant    Multiple        120                    To be procured on annual basis during project
implementation peTiod.
C3 Consultants' fees                         Consultant       1           240          QCBS       To be procured as needed during project
implementation.
C4 Incremental Expenses ofPMU                   n.a.         n.a.          120          n.a.      On-going expenses for project implementation.
GRAND TOTAL                                                              32,435
IBRD Front-End Fee                                                        160
GRAND TOTAL (including FEF)                                              32.595
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 70 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan/credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of LoanlCredit Proceeds
Expndiur Catw              A . o.unt In I*$mlR_         Finacin PerentC
Works                                     15.60          100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditure
Goods                                     9.80           100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consulting Services and Training          3.10                        100 %
Operating Costs (rounded off)             0.00                         80%
Refunding of Project Preparation          0.60           amount due pursuant to Section 2.02(c)
Advance                                                 of the Development Credit Agreement for
the project.
Total Project Costs                       29.10
Front-end fee        0.20
Total                                     29.30
The amounts shown above include an IBRD and IDA portion. The breakdown is as follows:
Works: IBRD - US$ 9.7 million; IDA - US$ 5.9 million equivalent
Goods: IBRD - US$ 5.8 million; IDA - US$ 4.0 million equivalent
Consultant Services and Training: IBRD - US$ 0.5 million; IDA - US$ 2.6 million equivalent
Operating Costs(IDA only): IDA - US$ 20,000 equivalent
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance (IDA only): IDA - US$ 0.6 million equivalent
Front end Fee (IBRD only): US$ 0.20 million equivalent
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Association's established procedures, including
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) will be as follows for each expenditure category: (a) goods under contracts costing less than
US$100,000 each; (b) works under contracts costing less than US$800,000 each; (c) services under
contracts less than US$100,000 each for consulting firms, and less than US$50,000 each for individual
consultants; (d) training; and (e) recurrent costs, under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify.
Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower, be made available to the Association
during project supervision, and be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Disbursements for expenditures above these thresholds will be made against presentation of full
documentation relating to those expenditures. The PMU, on the basis of information submitted by the PUs,
will consolidate project information for all components and prepare quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMRs) including financial report, project progress report and procurement management report, for project
monitoring and reporting for submission to IDA.
- 71 -



Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, two Special Accounts (SAs), one for IBRD loan
proceeds and the other for IDA credit proceeds, will be established in the National Bank of the Borrower
and operated by the PMU under terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD/IDA. The PMU is familiar
with the procedures for selecting and opening Special Accounts. Presently, the PMU operates a Special
Account for project preparation funds (PPF).
The IBRD/IDA would, upon request, make authorized allocations of US$ I million into each of the two
SAs. For the IDA Credit, initially the allocation for the SA would be limited to US$ 0.7 million until
disbursements have reached SDR 1.4 million, at which time the full authorized allocations could be
claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the SAs would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when
about 30 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever comes first.  The replenishment
applications will be supported by the necessary documentation, in accordance with IBRD/IDA guidelines,
including the SA bank statements and a reconciliation of the bank statements to the project's accounting
records. The PMU will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of project funds provided under the
Loan/Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements
are submitted to the Bank. Accounting for Special Accounts transactions and for all other project-related
accounts will be maintained in accordance with the World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and
Auditing Handbook, January 1995. The SAs would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank.
- 72 -



Annex 6 A
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
I.    Background and Overview
1.    Project Objectives and Component: The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (i)
improve the institutional, technical, commercial and financial efficiency of Skopje Vodovod, the water and
wastewater utility in Skopje, and (ii) provide a sound basis for the future development of the solid waste
sector in Skopje. The project consists of the following components; (i) Skopje water and wastewater; (ii)
Skopje solid waste; and (iii) Project Management Unit Support.
2.    Project Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$42.4 million including taxes and duties.
Procurement under the project would include technical assistance, civil works and goods for the following
components: (i) Initial investments; (ii) Operating fund including water and wastewater investments, and
expenditures related to training, consultant services, public relations campaigns, etc.; (iii) Vodovod
restructuring assistance, including technical assistance and equipment; (iv) Engineering and construction
supervision services; (v) Project implementation support including consultants' services, auditors' services
and incremental expenses of the Project Management Unit; and (vi) Solid waste, including urgent
investments and the preparation of a study for a sector strategy and action plan.
3.    Project Status. Project appraisal was completed in March 2001. Negotiations were completed in
end May 2001 and the proposed Board date for the project is June 26, 2001.
II.    Organizational StructurelProject Management
4.    Lending/Onlending Arrangements: An IDA Credit and an IBRD Loan will be made to the FYR
Macedonia, the Borrower. The Ministry of Finance (MOF), on behalf of the Borrower, will onlend the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan to Skopje Vodovod (Vodovod), and the Loan to Skopje Komunalna
Higiena (KH) under Subsidiary Loan Agreements. There would be two Subsidiary Loan Agreements under
the Project. The first would be signed among MOF, Vodovod, and Skopje City. The second would be
signed among MOF, KH, and Skopje City. The Skopje City is the owner of Vodovod and KH. The Bank
will enter into Project Agreements with the Vodovod and KB. Skopje City and Vodovod intends to enter
into a lease contract with an Operating Company (OC), which will have at least 51% private ownership.
Skopje Vodovod will be restructured and its role will mainly be to supervise the OC and manage the Bank
Loan/Credit. The Bank will review the new arrangements at that stage to confirm their acceptability.
5.    Project Management and Administration: A Project Management Unit (PMU) exists in the
Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC), the parent ministry for the project. The PMU was set
up in 1999 to monitor and administer the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the project and thus has
experience in regard to Bank procurement and financial management requirements. In addition, a Project
Units (PUs) have been set up in the Vodovod and KH that would be responsible for their respective
components under the project. The PUs will be responsible for the procurement, accounting and reporting
back to the PMU for their respective components. The PMU will be responsible for the overall
coordination of the project including managing its own component. In addition, the PMU will be
responsible for preparation of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in regard to the overall
project, including a consolidation and synthesis of the accounts, financial statements, procurement reports
and project performance indicators. The PMU will be responsible for: (i) administration of the Special
Accounts and Credit/Loan disbursements for all project components; (ii) financial management(project
- 73 -



accounting, adequate internal controls, financial reporting, monitoring) and auditing arrangements; (iii) the
PMU will prepare consolidated project management reports; and (iv) for procurement, the PUs in the
Vodovod and KH will prepare the bidding documents with assistance from the PMU, as needed. The PMU
will be responsible for launching the bids. The bid evaluation will be done by the PUs with one member of
the evaluation committee from the PMU. The Vodovod and KH will sign the contracts with suppliers and
contractors.
III.   Sources and Flow of Project Financing
6.    Financing of the proposed project will be from an IDA Credit of SDR 10.3 million and IBRD Loan
of 16.2 million (including front end fee) and counterpart financing of US$ 13.2 million. The breakdown of
the counterpart funds is as follows: Government contribution, in the form of customs duties - US$ 4.1
million; Vodovod contribution - US$ 8.1 million; and KH contribution - US$ 1.0 million. The contribution
of the Vodovod and the KH would correspond to their payment of the VAT and 10% of project costs
without taxes. Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan will finance goods (100%), works (80%) and
consultant's services and training (100%).
7.    Special Account To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, and
maintain, two Special Accounts (one for IBRD loan proceeds and the other for IDA credit proceeds) in US
dollars in the National Bank of the Borrower. The PMU will be responsible for the administration of the
Special Accounts and all Credit/Loan disbursement related transactions for the project. Two signatures
are required on any withdrawal application - that of the PMU Director and another official from the
MOTC. The Borrower and the PMU have been advised of the IDA/IBRD requirement that other funds
should not be commingled with IDA/IBRD funds in the Special Accounts.
IV.   Existing and Proposed Financial Management System
8.    During the capacity assessment carried out by the financial management specialist assigned to the
project, the existing information systems and procedures of the PMU and the PU in the Skopje Vodovod
were reviewed to assess the adequacy of accounting system and intemal controls, and to determine how
these can be used and relied upon for the proposed project financial management functions. As a result of
the assessment, a customized accounting software and project-specific procedures were adopted. To this
extent, under the PPF, funds were provided for the development of a financial management system for the
project, including purchase of the hardware and software required as well as training and technical support
to the PMU and the PUs by a local financial management consultant, whose services will be retained over
the first year of project implementation to be provided according to the needs.
9.    The financial management system has been developed and will run in the PMU and the PUs,
allowing exchange of data in real-time and easing report consolidation. The financial management system
meets the Bank's requirements. The system is being further improved and the Financial Management
Manual is currently being finalized. During negotiations, the PMU agreed to follow a time-bound Action
Plan that will address the necessary improvements in the system.
10.   Project and Enterprise Accounting: Project accounting, financial reporting and audits will all be
carried out in accordance with international standards. The PMU and the PUs will be required to maintain
fixed assets registers. In regard to enterprise accounting and financial reporting, the Vodovods have to
follow regulations issued by the central government. These rules deviate in some respects, at present, from
International Accounting Standards (IAS) for similar revenue eaming entities. In regard to the Skopje
- 74 -



Vodovod, one of the key tasks of the OC, under the lease contract, would be to design and implement a
financial management system that would help to prepare financial statements that meet the requirements of
IAS and of the local regulations.  No special arrangements, in terns of enhancement of financial
management, are envisaged for KH pending the completion of the solid waste strategy and action plan that
would determine the appropriate institutional improvements in the sector.
11.   Internal Controls: In the PMU and the PUs, the Unit Heads as well as the project accountants are
in place. The project also includes provisions for assistance through consultants and training on financial
management, if needed. These arrangements are expected to be adequate to meet the requirements of the
Bank. A Financial Management Manual is being finalized and will be ready before Board presentation.
The Manual includes organizational arrangements (staffing, functions, etc.), accounting standards and
procedures used for the project - including cash and assets management - internal controls (authorization,
signatory powers, etc.), project reporting formats and frequency, description of auditing arrangements as
well as procurement procedures.
V.    Reporting Requirements
12.   The PMU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) including financial report,
project monitoring/progress report and procurement management report for submission to the  Bank.
Production of a full set of PMRs is expected to be achieved by June 30, 2002. At this stage, it is envisaged
to maintain traditional disbursement procedures for the entire life of the project. Fixed asset registers will
be maintained and updated regularly by the PMU and the PUs.
VI.   Auditing Arrangements, Accounting and Auditing Standards.
13.   Auditing Arrangements. The PMU and the Vodovods will appoint independent auditors under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Audits will cover the project, as well as Skopje Vodovod and
KH financial statements. The auditor to undertake the audits for the year 2001 would be engaged by
Effectiveness. Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank six months after end of
each year of project implementation. The cost of the audit will be financed through the Credit/Loan.
14.   Accounting and Auditing Standards: The PMU and the PUs will maintain project accounts and
prepare project financial reporting in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS), and
project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA)
by private sector, independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. To strengthen the financial management
capability at the entity level, the OC would be required to install a financial management system under the
lease contract that would generate relevant management accounting and financial reporting information. No
special arrangements are envisaged for KH apart from the completion of the solid waste strategy and
action plan for Skopje that would determine appropriate institutional improvements for the sector.
VII.   Readiness for Implementation and Risks
15.   A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for the FYR of Macedonia has not been
conducted. Country as well as entity-specific information relevant to prepare the project financial
management assessment have been gathered during project identification and appraisal. In accordance with
the time-bound Action Plan discussed and agreed-upon with the PMU, and the PUs in the Vodovod and in
KIH. The project's financial management system is satisfactory to the Bank. The project documentation and
flow of funds, as well as administrative processes, are summarized in the Financial Management Manual.
The fiduciary risks associated with the project are at an acceptable level due to the risk mitigating factors
- 75 -



incorporated in the project design. These factors are: (i) the development of the integrated financial
management system; (ii) prominent role in project implementation played by an experienced staff in the
PMU and PUs; and (iii) establishment of a sound control environment as documented in the Financial
Management Manual.
- 76 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
Proje# Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              07/10/98                     07/10/98
Appraisal mission departure                      03/01/2000                   01/22/2001
Negotiations                                     04/03/2000                   05/21/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/15/2001
Prepared by:
Key milestones during preparation are as follows:
*  August 1999: Feasibility Study for the Project completed for Skopje, Bitola, and Prilep. The feasibility
studies had started in September 1998 and the final report was delayed due to events in Kosovo. The
feasibility study was originally for Bitola and Prilep. However, the Government requested that Skopje
be included in the project in April 1999.
3   December 1999: Bank mission which concluded that while the project preparation was advanced from
a technical and financial standpoint, investments would not be sustainable unless institutional reforms
through private sector participation (PSP) were completed.
*  April 2000: A consultative process to introduce PSP started through the analysis of various options in
the three utilities. This analysis was completed in August 2000.
*  December 2000: The Skopje City Council confirmed its decision on the introduction of private sector
participation through a lease contract.
*  January 2001: Bitola City Council decided to withdraw from the project.
*   January 2001: Skopje City requested the Bank to include a solid waste component under the project.
*  February 2001: Prilep City Council decided to withdraw from the project to participate in a proposed
KfW-supported program.
Preparation assistance:
Preparation activities were funded from the following sources:
*  Japanese PHRD grant (US$ 325,000) to prepare the feasibility study in Bitola and Prilep
*  Project Preparation Facility (US$ 600,000) for the rapid assessment in Skopje; privatization study for
Skopje, Bitola, and Prilep; zoning study in Bitola; development of the financial management system;
preparation of bidding documents for investments in the first year.
*  Bi-lateral Dutch grant funding for technical assistance during preparation
- 77 -



Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                   'pecl'lity
Sudipto Sarkar*                    Task Team Leader
Kishore Nadkarni*                  Senior Financial Analyst
Zarko Bogoev*                      Operations Officer
Dirk Ossen*                        Senior Engineer, consultant
Roberto Tarallo*                   Senior Financial Management Specialist
Miroslav Ruzica*                   Senior Social Scientist
Nikolai Soubbotin*                 Senior Counsel
Takao lkegami*                     Senior Sanitary Engineer
Nicholay Chistyakov*               Senior Disbursement Officer
Klas Ringskog                      Senior Institutional Specialist
Sunja Kim                          Financial Analyst
Els Hinderdael                     Senior Procurement Specialist
Tamara Noel*                       Program Assistant
Milane de Jesus Reyes*             Program Assistant
Lee Travers                        Peer Reviewer
Jan Janssens                       Peer Reviewer
* Current team.
- 78 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Report on Procurement Risk Assessment, prepared by Els Hinderdael, Sr. Procurement Specialist, July
2000.
2. Report on Assessment of Procurement Capacity, prepared by Els Hinderdael, Sr. Procurement
Specialist, July 2000.
3. Report on Financial Management Assessment, prepared by Roberto Tarallo, Sr. Financial
Management Specialist, April 2000.
4. Report on Financial Management Assessment for the Solid Waste Component, prepared by Richard
James, Financial Management consultant, March 2001.
C. Other
I. Project Preparation Studies for Skopje, Bitola and Prilep, prepared by Gibb Consultants (UK) in
association with Granitprojekt (Skopje), August 1999.
2. Environmental Assessment of the Project, prepared by Gibb Consultants, August 1999
3. Social Assessment Report for Bitola and Prilep, prepared by Macedonian consultants, August 1999
4. Report on Private Sector Participation Assessment in Skopje, Bitola and Prilep by DAR (Germany),
August 2000. This report included a customer survey of the citizens in Skopje.
5. Zoning Study in Bitola, prepared by Elwin Eppler, December 2000. The report recommended the
creation of different water pressure zones for Bitola and an investment program, December 2000.
6. Report on Solid Waste Component, prepared by Dr. Philip Rushbrook, World Health Organization,
February 2001.
7. Social Assessment for Skopje, prepared by Professor H. Kartalov, University of Skopje, March 2001
8. Public Consultation on the Solid Waste Component, prepared by Professor H. Kartalov, University of
Skopje, March 2001.
*Including electronic files
- 79 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD         IDA                            Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P070089        2001 TRAOE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                         0.00       9 30                             0.00       9.08        0.08       0.00
P042400        2001 FESAL2                                               30.31      20.00                             0.00      39.83       -0.18       0.00
P050589        1999 TRANSPORT                                            32.00       0.00                             0.00      16.27       14.75       0.00
P058056        1999 PENSION REF TA                                        0.00       1.00                             0.00       0.30        0.27       0.00
P066221        1999 SOCIAL SUPPORT                                        0.00      10.00                             0.00       5.62        2.52       0.00
P034609        1998 PSO II                                               25.00       0.00                             0.00      10.07        4.09       0.00
P036399        1998 IRRIGREHAB                                            7.50       5.00                             0.00       8.88        3.18       2.56
P038391        1998 EDUC REHAB                                            0.00       5.00                             0.00       0.31        0.37       0.00
P042399        1998 POWER                                                35.00       0.00                             0.29      25.71        5.97      0.00
P036089        1996 HEALTH SECT TRANSTN                                   0.00      16.90                             0.00       9.01       10.29       0.00
P010001        1996 PRIV FARMER SUPPORT                                  0.00        7.90                             0.00       2.25       2.86       0.37
Total:      129.81       75.10                             0.29      127.32      44.21        2.93
- 80 -



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999                Alkaloid                        0.00    0.00     7.40     0.00    0.00    0.00     3.57    0.00
1998                Macedonia Telcom               25.00    0.00     0.00    25.00   25.00    0.00     0.00   25.00
1997                Makedonija                      2.94    0.00     0.00     0.00    2.94    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                Nikol-Fert                      3.80    0.00     0.00     0.00    3.30    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                SEF Masinomont                  0.61    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.61     0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                SEF SEAF Macedon                0.00    2.50     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.64     0.00    0.00
1997                SEF Teteks                      0.81    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.81     0.00    0.00    0.00
1998/00             Stopanska Banka                 0.00    3.40     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.93     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         33.16     5.90    7.40    25.00    32.66    3.57     3.57   25.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               Alkaloid Incr.                     0.00      8.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      8.00      0.00       0.00
- 81 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: Water Utility Improvement Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              MIcedonha.   Contral   middle.
FYR       Asia  Income        Development diamond
Population. mid-year imillions)                         2.0       475      2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita /Atlas method, US$)                    1 ,690    2,150      1,200
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        3.3      1.022    2.513
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population f%)                                          017        0.1       1.1
Laborforce X                                            1.5       0,6        1.2     GNP           ."                 Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avaItable. 1193-99)                                capita                       e n pimary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     -
Urban population I% of total peoputetion)               62         67        43
Life expectancY at birth (veers)                        73         69        69
Intant mortalitV (per 1,000 livde bithS)                16         22        33
Child malnutritioo (% of children under 5)                          8        15                Access to safe water
Access to Improved water source (% of powltlon)          ..         ..       8e
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                3e 3     16
Gross primarY enrollment (`% of school-apt PoPutation)  99        1 00      1             -4  Maedonia, F1YR
Male                                                 100        101       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                98         99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMA TRENDS
1979     1os9       1998     11919
Economic ratios
GOP (US$ billions)                              -.        -        3.4       3.5
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                             -      25.5       21.4                     Td
Exports of goods and servicesIGOP                                40.6      415                       Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                                        8.6        71
Gross national savirtgs/GDP                                       16.8      17.3
Current account balance/GOP                                      -8.9       -3.9     Doesi
interest paymentsGOP                            .         ,.       1.9       1 7                     ,Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                   694        45A      Savings
Total debt service/exports                                        9.9       12,7
Present value of debt/GDP                                        62.4
Present value of debtexports                                     148.8
Indebtedness
197949S  1989.9S9    1SS8       *999   1999.4
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           -0.8      2.9        2.7       53                Macedonia, FYR
GNP per caDita                                0.3       2.2        2.3       48                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of roods and services                 3.1      11.2       2.5        7,1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                                       12.4      11.6
Industry                                                         33.0      32.6      20/
Manufacturino
Services                                                         54.6      55.8      o<
Private consumPtion                                              73.8      73.8    -20-    94   95   96   97 91   99
General government consumption                                   17.6       19.0                     GDI    - GDP
imports of ooods and services                                    57.5      55.7
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annualigrowth)
Aqriculture                                            -0.4        3.0       0.7    30
Industrv                                               -5.9       3.9       0.4
Manufacturinn                                                                      15 .  1
Services                                                0.8       2.3        4.5
Private consumPtion                             .       07        3.2        3.3     o      94                     99
General government consumption                         -0.3       4,1       10.1
Gross domestic investment                               2.2       7.4      -16.5   -1
Imports of goods and services                           7.2      12,2       -2.8                  Exports  *--Imports
Gross national product                                  1.1       3.2        2.7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 82 -



Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989        1998       1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic Prices
(% chanqe)
Consumer Drices                                     ..        ..        0.8       -1.1      3
Implicit GDP deflator                                ..       ..        0.2       -0.3      200
Government finance                                                                          10D
(X of GDP. includes current grants)                                                           0 -
Current revenue                                     ..                 34.0       36.3     -1                     9 94    95   7      99
Current budoet balance                              ..        ..        0.1        0.8                    GDPdefator    CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                             ..        ..       -1.8        0.0
TRADE
(USS millions)                                             1989       1998       1999       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                  .,       ..      1,292      1,192     2.000
Raw materials                                     ..        ..         56         50
Food                                               ..       ..         66         68      1,500
Manufactures                                       ..       ..      1.043       867
Total imports (cif)                                                   1.914      1.796      .000
Food                                               ..       ..        256        208       soo
Fuel and energy                                                       163        158
Capital goods                                                         212       366         o
93   94   95   se   97   98   99
Export price index (1995=100)                        ..                  87        84
Import rice index (1995=100)                        ..        ..         78       124                   U Exports       N Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                            ..       ..        112        68
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                             1989        1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP t%)
Exports of goods and services                       ..        ..      1,423      1,440       0
Imports of qoods and services                       ..        ..      2.014      1.925
Resource balance                                    ..        ..       -591      -485
-4
Net income                                           ..       ..        -44        -43
Net current transfers                               ..        ..        327       392
Current account balance                             ..        ..       -308      -136       -8
Financing items (net)                               ..                  352       259
Changes in net reserves                             ..        ..        -44       -123     -12 i
Memo:
Reserves including qold (USS millions)               ..       ..        334       458
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                     ..       ..       55.3       56.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989        1998       1999
(USS millions)                                                                              Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 ..       ..      2.392      1.568
IBRD                                                        .        115        110                    G:134   A:110
IDA                                               .         ..       179        223
Total debt service                                   ..       ..        143        183                                       223
IBRD                                              ..       ..          12        10
IDA                                               ..       ..           1         1         F
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                   ..       ..         28         65
Official creditors                                ..       ..         71         B1
Private creditors                                 ..        ..        91         -1
Foreign direct investment                         ..        ..       118         27                                     D:263
Portfolio equitv                                  ..       ..           0         0                  E. 318
World Bank program
Commitments                                       ..       ..          65        92      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                     ..       ..         51         57      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                              ..        ..          5         3       C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                          ..        ..        46         54
Interest payments                                 ..        ..         9          8
Net transfers                                     ..        ..        38         46
Development Economics
-83 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30457
FED. REP. OF                                                                                            j
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                                                         FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)                                                                                                                                                                          M A C MACEDONIA
/\<<>          '' r-_  -$-' KRIVA   \                                                                                      WATER UTILITY
N,                                                     j,..,                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA LANKA
IAlAKa   N;                                                                         IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
>r0~'~ a  /            Ioc  )                       VKUMANOVO
A7                             r                               o - 9  .   Blace                     OKumonovO  BelIako-c    -  -
Jegueoa/ *'c | _                                                 K TO  I                      e                 Krufoyo >                                                          9 SKOPJE CITY IN THE PROJECT
}~~~~~~~~e   /ce ;G,  KRATOVO  .       GARA^0E/E
I     Tv r.                                                                                                                                          B / X $   g?j  <   OS   -  VINICAULGARIA  R-V- EVERS/STREAMS
'9                                                                                                                  Deca -olkovila  -    i   X   -   -   Vele   -  k   R    sr EMAIN ROADS
PROBISTIP  /   RAD)                                                            I                                SECONDARY ROADS
IT                                                                                   KI/ SOPCANIELEV                                                                              0   SELECTED CITIES
<                                                                    SV N/COL~~,j,cc,ie  PTDbIEB )    KODOTI      V/N/CA                                                                               NATIOTAL CAPITAL
j                                                                                                                 0 ITt  )                                                                                      O P O N   SO U N D A R IES9t\   A   A> j  j -       1 t t i -  . 
N                                                                                                                                                                                   - --NINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
GOSTMVAR  G                                                     -                                                                            ->
Lake  BROD                                                                             K         ~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~BEROVO 
Lavovke                           RO.                                                                            000R     )d)                                                                 0           15         JO KILOMETERS
VELES                                                                                     I010                                                                          JO MILES
RADO V/S 
Ge/saL-       ~~~K/CEIYOEA                                                                                                                       -.TEo                                                   -~d -d b,l'A M., D.O,,DO ,.Th    kB4
0 Nb.' ~       Ciev                                                                             N0111                                                     5The Aaooa  oo-d,,vIa 
DEBAR                                                                                                                                   STRUM/CA-0                                               I SO oop I~ --l vly.  lb.Iopo,I1STh. W-HUMo S-OOT,-
DEBAR~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-K  oa                                                                                                  - GOT/NO  SItOrTID-                                                    IenIcr, 0 c
%               >                                                       Lake         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~                                         SLOVAK,REP  '--J UKRAINE
.STR   A                                                                                                                     Vk~~~~~~~ar,dav<o  IEP                                 AUSTRIA  0N~~
DP//AR  *0                                         (                                                                               SJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HNGARY 
OHR/D                                              )                   KAy  AR)GVF/AStl                                                                                         /
\Sloaga  cO/sad                                                                 K        Doirao ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLOVENIA'~~~SLVNI~-                      OMNA                -
Ohdd                                                                                                                                                          CR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,.  aeo00  akaaOATIA~'
RESFNHEZGINA,
Lake                                                                                                                                                       ITALYITOA  ~
Lake~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~TOSSAM                                        la
(  -,,Eako~~Lak                                                                                                                                      Korni
PePa  'es,G       EE    
LRANIAt~~~~~~~~~PRL 00



