Ministry of Transport & Communications      E351
Skopje                                      Volume 2
WATER UTILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SOLID WASTE COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
AND
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
FILE COPY
1



1.0 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This Environmental Assessment (EA) has been prepared for the proposed Water Utility
Improvement project to be financed by a World Bank Loan and International Development
Assistance (IDA) Credit to FYR Macedonia. This EA pertains only to the issues related to the
Solid Waste Component of the Bank's project. The environmental concerns of the water
component of the project have been addressed through a separate EA.
Under the Solid Waste Component, the project will: (i) assist in the preparation of a
comprehensive solid waste management strategy and action plan for Skopje; and (ii) support the
investment needs to reverse the decline in waste collection and to extend services to the
population that are currently not served. The population not served currently are the minority
groups. These urgent investments comprise purchase of trucks, waste containers, sweeping
vehicles, vacuum sweepers, and water tankers.
The project will not create any negative environmental effects. On the contrary, it will bring
about environmental benefits in the following manner:
*  Make waste collection more efficient through the use of new vehicles. Better collection
of wastes reduces the public health concerns related to uncollected wastes in the street
*  The vehicles would be used for extending services to certain areas of the city that are not
currently served by KH. Wastes in these parts of the city are disposed in illegal sites that
creates public health and environmental concerns. Currently waste is collected from
about 90% of the city's population. The project will help to collect wastes from 100% of
the population.
*  The project will support the preparation of a comprehensive solid waste management
strategy and an action plan for the city. The strategy will look into options of introducing
the private sector for waste management and merging the operations of KH and Drisla for
economies of scale.
To ensure that the leachate in the landfill does not create environmental concerns, the project
proposes to support the current monitoring program. It should be recognized that without the
project there still would be leachate originating from the landfill and the project does not
contribute to leachate generation.
Currently, there is no indication that the groundwater is contaminated by the leachate, posing an
environmental hazard. However, throughout the period of the operation of the landfill, there will
be an increase in the leachate discharge. It is important to monitor the quantity and quality of the
leachate to prevent potential groundwater contamination. Also, the culvert around the landfill
currently collects rain water and takes it away from the landfill. If this culvert failed, then there
is a potential of the rain water to be contaminated with the leachate.
2



The project proposes to support the ongoing leachate monitoring prograLm and the visual
inspection of the culvert. The leachate monitoring program will be carried out by a private
laboratory. The municipal company of Drisla company, the operators olf the landfill, will
perform the visual inspection of the culvert. The Project Management Unit of the project,
located in the Ministry of Transport and Communication will provide semi-annual reports to the
Bank on the leachate monitoring and condition of the culvert.
2.0 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project includes the following three parts. The indicative cost of each component includes
price and physical contingency but does not include duties and taxes.
The environmental assessment for the water component (Part A below) has already been
prepared and submitted to the Bank's Infoshop. A social assessment was also carried out for the
water component and the project design has incorporated the comments of the public. This
environmental assessment addresses issues related to the solid waste component only (Part B
below). There are no environmental issues related to Part C below of the project.
Part A
Skopje Water and Wastewater Componenzt (Cost - US$ 33.3 million): The component would
consist of five sub-components: (i) initial defined investments for water network rehabilitation;
(ii) Operating Fund which will finance rehabilitation of the water and sewerage network; (iii)
restructuring assistance of the present water utility to introduce the private sector;  (iv)
engineering and construction supervision services for investments carried out in the project; and
(v) project implementation support.
Part B
Skopje Solid Waste Component (Cost - US$ 3.4 million): The component would consist of two
sub-components:
(i) preparation of a study to define a strategy and an action plan for a comprehensive solid waste
management plan for the city of Skopje. The strategy would look into the options of introducing
the private sector. The study is estimated to cost US$ 0.2 million.
(ii) urgent investments needed to reverse the decline in waste collection services, and to extend
services to the parts of the population that are under-served or not served, including low-income
groups and minorities. The urgent investments will include the purchase of: (i) 28 trucks for
waste collection (US$ 1.7 million); (ii) about 2,800 waste containers (US$ 0.7 million); (iii) two
sweeping vehicles (US$ 0.3 million); (iv) 10 vacuum sweepers (US$ 0.1 million); and (v) 15
water tankers (US$ 0.5 million).
Part C
Project Management Unit (PMU) Support Component (Cost - US$ 1.6 million): The component
would consist of five sub-components; (i) refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF),
3



an advance of the IDA funds to the Government from the Bank;  (ii) project financial
management reporting system; (iii) auditors' services; (iv) consultants' services; and (v)
incremental expenses of the PMU.
3.0 POLICY LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
The Macedonian solid waste management is regulated by the following three laws
*  Law on Public Works that specifies that the responsibility of waste management lies with
a public municipal enterprise or to a private entity working for the public enterprise under
a contract. The law also sets broad guidelines for establishing prices for waste collection.
*  Law on Waste which outlines the methods of solid waste collection, transportation, and
disposal.
o  Law on Public Hygiene and on Communal Solid and Technological Waste Collection and
Transport which sets standards of public hygiene.
A recent review of the above laws, through EU financing', indicated that the legislation provides
a sound background for waste management in the country. Modifications, however, would be
necessary to bring the above laws in line with EU legislation and policy. There is no urgent need
for the modifications which can take place in the medium to long term.
In the case of Skopje, the waste is collected and transported by a municipal company called
Komunlana Hygiena (KH). The waste is disposed in a landfill that is managed by another
municipal company called Drisla. The enforcement of the above laws is carried out by
inspectors in the Ministry of Environment and these two public enterprises operate as per the
guidelines set out in the above three laws.
4.0 BASELINE INFORMATION
The project will help the KH acquire new vehicles and equipment. Information related to these
investments is summarized below.
4.1 Solid Waste Collection
The estimated population in Skopje is about 600,000 of which approximately 90% receive a
regular waste collection service. The waste collection service is operated by the municipal
enterprise, KH that serves about 130,000 households. The estimated daily quantity of solid
waste collected by KH from households is 500t.
' Report on Solid Waste Management for Skopje, prepared by Kruger consultants in association with VKI and
Symonds; November 1999
4



The remaining 10% of the city (60,000 inhabitants), about 10 000 households, have no regular
waste collection service. The majority of the people affected are understood to belong to the
minority Albanian community. KH refers to these areas as receiving a 'substandard' service,
which usually involves the irregular collection of waste from piles, communal containers and in
some places, Sm3 'skip' containers. The Skopje municipality, with strong support from the
mayor, wants the waste collection arrangements in these areas brought up to the same standard
enjoyed by the other residents of the city.
The waste service undertaken in most of the city is divided into two different systems. In 38
'blocks' across the city (each block generally represents one shift of work for one vehicle
involving two return trips to the landfill), waste storage containers each with a volume of 1.1m3
are used. This is known as an 'end of street' collection system, since householders take their
waste to a communal waste storage point where one or more of these containers are located. The
containers are emptied daily or every second day.
The second system is the use of 120-litre wheeled bins located one per household in
predominantly detached housing residential areas. This system is known as the 'kerbside'
collection system because on collection days householders wheel their bins to the kerbside to
await emptying. There are 10 'blocks' in the city where this system has been introduced and
waste is collected twice or three times per week.
KH has 26 vehicles dedicated to waste collection from households. This fleet is ageing rapidly
with 65% of the trucks now over 7 years old and 58% over 10 years old. On a typical day the city
has about 18 trucks in operation (69% of the fleet). The remainder are in need of repair. With
only 18 trucks on the road (assuming an average 5t of waste in each truck), each vehicle has to
make up to 6 return trips (34km) to the landfill each day. This involves round the clock, three-
shift working. There is little margin left in the operations to remove all of the daily waste
production from 90% of the city if more vehicles breakdown. Consequently, the waste service
that KH can provide is stretched to the limit and with an ageing vehicle fleet it is only a matter of
time before the accumulated vehicle problems make the waste collection system fail in Skopje.
4.2 Waste containers
The majority of the city has end of street waste collection using 4,700 communal waste
containers (I. I m3 capacity). KH have commented that they have a shortfall of 400 containers in
order to provide adequate coverage of containers across the 38 city blocks that have this
collection system. In addition there is a need to replace about 1,800 containers that are deformed
and cannot be repaired. KH also wants to extend the end of street collection system to the 10%
of the city area that has an irregular waste collection service. An additional 510 containers would
be required for this purpose.
4.3 Street sweeping and washing
Currently, KH cleans 5 166 881 m2 of the city's street surface, about 50% of the paved areas.
The surface area cleansed is divided into five categonres:
5



-  Central area, swept and washed daily (156,084 m 2)
-  Category 1, manual washing, manual and machine sweeping, 6 times/week (253,477 m2)
-  Category 2, machine washing, manual sweeping, 6 times/week (624,519 mi2)
-  Category 3, machine washing, machine sweeping, 2 times/week (1,080,074 mi)
-  Category 4, machine washing, manual sweeping, I time/week (3,052,727 m2)
The city operates two waste sweeping vehicles, one seven years old (1.5 mi' capacity) and the
other fifteen years old (5 m3 capacity). In addition, eight hand-operated street sweeping vacuum
machines were acquired last year for the use in the main public areas.
KH uses ten water tankers for road washing. All are very old, ranging between 15 and 29 years
and their reliability is low. They all need to be replaced at the earliest opportunity. These water
tankers are also used to deliver drinking water to villages around Skopje during drought
conditions in the summer.
4.4 Drisla landfill
Drisla sanitary landfill is located 17 kms east of Skopje and all the municipal waste of the city
goes to the landfill. The landfill, constructed in 1994, is located in a valley with a total area of
approximately 76 hectares. At the current rate of filling (around 5OOt/day) the site has a
remaining life of about 30 years. The operation is described as a canyon type landfill where the
base area available for landfilling increases with rising waste depth. Waste is deposited in 2.5 m
lifts and covered routinely with 0.3 m of inert cover. Waste emplacement is undertaken in a
small working area, with tipped waste immediately compacted by two bulldozers.
The operation of the landfill was reviewed extensively under funding from EU Phare. There
were no environmental concerns related to the landfill that should satisfactorily retain deposited
wastes in a sound, sustainable and monitored manner.  It is a textbook example of an
intermediate engineered landfill. The European Union is discussing with the Skopje municipal
authorities the possibility of installing a landfill gas collection system and to generate electricity
for on-site use and export to the nearest villages (predominantly ethnic Albanian) using the
existing local power distribution grid. The EU funded review of the landfill also recommended a
systematic monitoring program of the groundwater and leachate to identify any potential
problems of groundwater contamination.
The site has no scavengers and is located several hundred metres from the nearest isolated
houses. Waste trucks reach the tipping area via a semi permanent paved haul road around the
edge of the site. The site has a weighbridge to weigh all incoming loads and an extensive
maintenance facility to service and repair mechanised equipment. The depth of the waste after
the landfill has ceased operation is expected to be 100 m. The plan is to complete the site as a
domed landform to minimize excess water infiltration
The landfill is located on a clay stratum and the low permeability of the soil reduces the risk of
ground water contamination from vertical migration of the leachate. There is lateral migration of
leachate which has not yet caused any environmental concerns. The Drisla company would want
to improve the leachate management as leachate levels are rising with increasing wastes. The
company plans to construct a leachate collection system to prevent contamination of the surface
6



water drainage system. The company also has plans to pretreat the leachate aerobically before it
is discharged off site, but construction has not taken place yet. By constructing the pretreatment
facility for the leachate, the landfill will meet the criteria set by the European Union Council
Directive 1999/31/EC of 26 April 1999 on the landfill of waste.
The landfill has seven piezometers installed in and around the site (Attachment 1) to monitor the
quality of the underlying groundwater. No pollution of the groundwater has been detected. The
site has been designed to direct upslope surface rainfall runoff to pass around the site in a culvert.
This is a typical approach used widely in the former Yugoslavia and elsewhere. Sometimes,
however, it can provide a route for uncontrolled leachate discharge from a landfill, or infiltration
of surface drainage water into the site, if the integrity of this culvert fails. An investigation
should be undertaken to assess the possibility of directing surface rainwater runoff around the
edge of the site rather than under it.
5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The solid waste component of the project (Section 2, Part B) essentially will replace the existing
worn-out equipment of KH and add a little extra capacity so that the company can extend
services. The project will bring about environmental benefits in the following manner:
*  Make waste collection more efficient through the use of new vehicles. Better collection
of wastes reduces the public health concerns related to uncollected wastes in the street
3  The vehicles would be used for extending services to certain areas of the city that are not
currently served by KH. Wastes in these parts of the city are disposecd in illegal sites that
creates public health and environmental concerns. Currently waste is collected from
about 90% of the city's population. The project will help to collect wastes from 100% of
the population.
*  The project will support the preparation of a comprehensive solid waste management
strategy and an action plan for the city. The strategy will look into options of introducing
the private sector for waste management and merging the operations of KH and Drisla for
economies of scale.
There are no negative environmental effects of the investments since the project is only replacing
the equipment currently used for waste collection. However, to ensure that the leachate in the
landfill does not create environmental concerns, the project proposes to support the current
monitoring program. It should be recognized that without the project there still would be
leachate originating from the landfill and the project does not contribute to leachate generation.
The solid waste component was also reviewed by the Bank. While the component did not raise
any environmental concerns, the reviewers felt the need to monitor the leachate in the landfill on
a regular basis. Currently, there is no indication that the groundwater is contaminated by the
leachate, posing an environmental hazard. However, throughout the period of the operation of
the landfill, there will be an increase in the leachate discharge. It is important to monitor the
quantity and quality of the leachate to prevent potential groundwater contamination. Also, the
7



culvert around the landfill currently collects rain water and takes it away from ithe landfill. If this
culvert failed, then there is a potential of the rain water to be contaminated with the leachate.
6.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
If a 'do nothing' alternative was followed, the outcome can be reasonably foreseen. Uncollected
waste will become more evident for longer in the residential areas and eventually public health
and quality of life will deteriorate to a point where adverse health impacts can no longer be
avoided. The time scale for this scenario cannot be predicted with accuracy. It may become
evident in one or two years or longer. It is likely that the effect will not be uniform with peni-
urban and minority areas probably being affected first as the core of a reliable waste service
retrenches inwards towards the central area of the city.
A further important issue should also be recognised. At present about 10% of the population has
a substandard and unreliable waste collection service. In effect, they are not part of the formal
waste collection system operated by KH. This lack of service falls disproportionately on the
minority population groups, notably Albanians. It will not be possible to bring these areas up to
the same standard as the rest of the city unless additional equipment is made available through an
emergency intervention.
In terms of safeguarding public health through regular and reliable waste services, assisting and
reinforcing the municipal waste collection operations should be regarded as a high priority for
the City management. Supporting the necessary improvements to waste collection would result
in a corresponding increase in the number of communal waste storage containers deployed in the
city.
Waste collection is typically regarded as an important part of safeguarding public health from
waste-related problems but it is not the only one. Another aspect that should be considered is
street sweeping and street washing (collectively known as 'street cleansing'). The prevailing
situation with street cleansing is almost identical to that for waste collection. Little or no
investment in replacement equipment has led to municipal concern about accumulations of waste
littering the streets, particularly in suburban areas and residential apartment districts. There are
just two street sweeping vehicles available, both over 7 years old, and eight hand-controlled
street vacuum machines. Manual sweeping and litter picking is also undertaken.
The municipal authorities have ten water tankers (from two manufacturers) for road washing,
whose average ages range between 15 and 29 years old. Together, the city only has the capacity
to cleanse, at varying frequencies, about 50% of the paved area. The peri-urban and outlying
areas are the first to be excluded from this service as the availability of equipment declines due
to age and where no new manual labour is made available.
7.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The environmental monitoring plan and the institutional arrangements are surnmarized below:
8



7.1 Environmental Monitoring
The project does not propose any mitigation measures since there are no negative environmental
impacts. The concern of the leachate in the landfill would have been there even without the
project. However, the project proposes to support the ongoing monitoring program of the
groundwater, leachate, and inspection of the culvert that diverts the surface water. The current
monitoring program and schedule is shown in Attachment 2. The results of the analysis will be
sent to the Bank semi-annually. Corrective measures will be taken by the municipality if there is
evidence that the groundwater has a risk of being contaminated.
Presently all monitoring activities are partly performed by the Health Protection Institute and
partly by the Skopje water utility and results are reported to Drisla on a regular basis. Present
monitoring arrangements are not efficient and Drisla plans to sublet the activities to a private
laboratory. For this purpose Drisla is preparing terms of reference for bids, which will be sent out
in June 2001. In drafting the terms of reference Drisla proposes to strictly follow the European
Council Directive 1999/31/EC of 26 April 1999 on the landfill of waste. Sampling technology
will follow the general guidelines of ISO 5667 (1991).
7.2 Institutional Arrangements
Drisla is not a beneficiary under the project but KH, through the Bank Loan'Credit, will ensure
that the monitoring is financed. It is envisaged that the KH and Drisla will jointly sign the
contract with the selected laboratory. The KH, through the legal agreements of the project, will
agree to contract the monitoring to a private laboratory. The laboratory will be required to
submit the results to Drisla and the KH on a quarterly basis. Drisla will also complete the visual
inspections of the culvert on a regular basis and report to the KH on a regular basis. The KH will
report to the Bank on the results of the monitoring and on the condition of the culvert on a semi-
annual basis as part of regular reporting on the project. If the results of the analysis raises
potential environmental concerns, the Bank will be notified.
The contract with the private laboratory is expected to last five years. The annual costs for the
monitoring is estimated to be US$ 20,000. The schedule to select the laboratory is as follows:
* Invitation to bid: October 1, 2001
* Submission of bids: November 15, 2001
* Contract signature: January 1, 2002
The visual inspection of the culvert in the landfill is currently carried out by Drisla as part of
their routine activities and as a result a separate cost has not been assumed.
8.0 PUBLIC CONSULTATION
While there is broad support for a solid waste component in the project, it is important to get
feedback from the public and the stakeholders on the specific components of the project. Any
concerns that the citizens have should be reflected in the project design. A public consultation
on the solid waste component took place on March 14 in the office of the mayor of Skopje. It
was attended by 32 out of a total of 37 stakeholders that were invited to participate. Participants
9



represented, the Government, Skopje municipality officials, waste management companies of
Komunalna Hygiene and Drisla, and Non-Governmental organizations (NGOs) representing
citizens (Attachment 3). Environmental NGOs and spokesperson from various areas of the city
where the service will be improved or extended attended the meeting.
The number and the level of attendees indicates the high interest for the problem of solid waste
in Skopje. Another indicator for the great interest is the high number of individual contributions.
Eighteen participants contributed actively to the discussions.
In general, the consultations showed that the solid waste management is at a low level and there
is need for urgent intervention. The assistance from the World Bank will be the first step toward
rehabilitation of the solid waste management capacities. All discussions weire in line with the
aims of the proposed project although it was obvious that the needs are much bigger than the
expected outcomes of the project. The discussions indicated that in the future the city will have
to develop an integrated system of dealing with solid waste. In that context, the project is seen as
a starting point for future comprehensive actions.
The minutes of the meeting follow. The discussions were facilitated by Professors Hristo
Kartalov and Ilo Trajkovski who presented the project before the discussions started.
Risto Penov (mayor of Skopje) He welcomed the meeting and expressed satisfaction at
the opportunity to share his thoughts and plans with the participants regarding the
hygiene and the solid waste in Skopje. He highly appreciates the opportunity given to the
city to enter an agreement with the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the
World Bank for rehabilitation of the water supply systems and sewerage systems in
Skopje. He also emphasized the need to urgently redirect part of the means for solving
the problems with maintaining hygiene and dealing with the solid waste in the city.
The situation with the hygiene and solid waste in the city is critical and there aren't
promising chances to overcome it with the limited financial means of the city. The level
of equipment in the public service is very low, with old equipment, and at the moment the
solid waste collection service is struggling to serve the citizens with old vehicles. The
project will help improve the solid waste collection in the city through the new vehicles
and waste containers.
Apart from the social dimension (due to the difficulty to collect solid waste on a regular
basis from all parts of the city), there are public health and ecological dimensions. The
project will enable widening of the scope of collecting waste in parts of the city and
suburban areas, as well as in municipalities with lower social economic conditions, which
are often places where the minorities live.
The project will not directly cause high rise of the level of communal hygiene but, above
all, will contribute to attaining the so-called "zero level". The attainment of this level is
estimated to be the precondition for all further processes of translormation of public
services in this area (reorganization, privatization).
* Gorgi Delovski (operational director of Komunalna Higiena) He described the present
situation and level of equipment in the service. Although the service works in three shifts
10



it does not manage to maintain hygiene on the desired level. He believes the reason for
this is the small number and poor quality of the equipment. He stressed that waste
collecting is done with 18 big vehicles that are more than 20 years old., and eight smaller
ones. Ten water tankers with an average age of 30 years are used for cleaning the public
streets. Because of the age of the vehicles and the other equipment and the level of its
use, the vehicles are often not functional. The use of these vehicles causes great expenses
for maintaining and engaging hundreds of workers for that job alone. In this context, he
welcomed the mayor's initiative for requesting a credit for rising the level of the
capacities of KH for collecting communal waste and maintaining the hygiene in the city.
Reshad Mohamed (ecological association "Opstanok") He spoke of the activities of the
ecological patrol organized by the association, emphasizing that there is a very poor co-
operation with the public services, and that this activity of the service is on a purely
volunteer basis. He pointed out to the fact that hygiene is on a very lc,w level despite all
the obvious efforts of KH, the rivers have turned into garbage fields, the number of
illegal garbage fields is increasing on daily basis, and that not even the countryside is
spared from the habit of illegal dumping. He believes that the reasons are insufficient
respect for the appropriate punishments and the relevant regulations, as well as in the low
educational level and ecological awareness of the people. Emphasizing the positive
expectations from the project on dealing with the solid waste, he spoke in favor of using
part of the means for the credit for a long term media propaganda and education of the
citizens.
*  Voislav Kirandzic (mayor of Chucher-Sandevo) He expressed his dissatisfaction of the
fact that KH provides waste collecting only in a narrow urban area. He requested that part
of the equipment provided with this credit be used for widening the scope of collecting
waste in the area of Chucher-Sandevo.
*  Stefce Jakimovski (mayor of Karpos) The problem with the waste is also urgent in the
municipality of Karpos, and he says he feels like a mayor of a "garbage field". He gives
an absolute support to the mayor of Skopje, Mr. Risto Penov, for his engagement in
improving water supply and sewerage system in order to more successfully deal with
solid waste. He indicated the problems with the employed, the technical means, the
absence of media campaign and respect for the regulations in KH.
*  Ljubomir Veljkovic (a councilor in the municipality of Centar) There are 31 illegal
waste damps in the center of the city although there is regular waste collection in this
municipality. He supported the project and pointed out to the need of preparing a social
study, which would be the essence in developing policy in this sector that would be in
accordance with the aspirations for a maintained development of the city.
*  Projko Despotovski (Director of JP "Komunalna Higiena") Expressing gratitude to the
previous remarks for the efforts of KH in dealing with the hygiene problems. He
described the situation in KH as disastrous and with a tendency to worsen. The project
would contribute to solve the most urgent problems, but it won't change the whole
situation because there are other larger factors. He emphasized the problem with the low
prices of the communal services that are under the control of the Macedonian
government, not the local authorities.
11



*  Ljubisa Ivanovski (mayor of Sopiste) Although this municipality is jast 5 km from the
city, it isn't encompassed in the activities of KH and, ironically, the public damp site
"Drisla" is its territory. He expressed his expectations that the situation in his
municipality will change.
*  Kosta Ilievski (a citizen) He spoke of the large illegal dumping site in the part of the city
where he lives and expressed hope that the project will enable coping with this problem.
*  Dobre Bosilkovski (Komunalna Higiena) He accepted that the mayors of the
municipalities where there is no regular waste collecting are right in expressing their
concern, but he also stressed that KH is not in a position to do something more with the
existing equipment. The equipment it has is old and there are no spare parts for its
maintenance.  The project is welcomed not only for technical modernization for
improving communal hygiene, but also as an obligation of KH for internal organizational
changes.
*  Gorgi Velevski (manager in Drisla) From the point of view of the city landfill site,
Drisla, he expressed his support for the project, but he also emphasized that the landfill
company has financial problems. The project should take an integral approach towards
solid waste management and not only focus on waste collection but also look into
transportation and disposal. Drisla has its own developmental problems and requires
financial means for additional technical measures, mechanization, and environmental
monitoring.
*  Blaze Arsovski (municipality of Petrovec) This municipality has its own model of
solving the problem with communal hygiene and it doesn't have good co-operation or
understanding with the city.
*  Cvetanka Ikonomova-Martinovska (city committee member) The city truly has limited
authority over seven municipalities, but she said that the problem with solid waste is
wider and encompasses also the suburban areas. In this context, she welcomed the project
as the first step towards reviving the ideas for widening the scope of activities of KH and
other municipalities.
*  Zdravko Zdravevski (an inspector in Cair) He stressed the need to widen the range of
waste collecting over the rural areas, surrounding Skopje. From this aspect, he pointed to
the fact that part of the equipment provided with this project should be directed towards
performing this function in these areas.
*  Lence Kurcieva (Ministry of Environment) She indicated that an inter-sector group for
dealing with solid waste has been formed in the Macedonian government, and that this
group prepares a national strategy for coping with this problem. In this context, the
project and the efforts of the city is in line with the long-term plans of the country.
*  Jovica Goljic (Ministry of Transport and Communication) He emphasized the
importance of the project of the Macedonian government and the World Bank for
improving water supply and sewerage system in Skopje. He will contribute to more
successful resolving of the existing problems. The project for improving the situation
12



with the solid waste in Skopje is one more step in overcoming the current negative state
in the communal services. It is only the first step in this direction and it only means
healing the wounds, but it will have long-term positive effects.
Imerali Gureci (mayor of Kondovo) He considers the project as a good initiative and the
KH which collects the solid waste from the city needs assistance. The company needs to
be equipped further, which will improve services and expand services to areas that are
not served in Skopje. KH needs to collect waste from all parts of the city since Skopje
municipality (the owner of KH) represents the entire geographic ulit which includes
Skopje and other smaller municipalities.
Skopje 14/03/2001
13



Attachment 1
14



Attachment 2
The municipal enterprise, Drizla, is presently operated following an environmental monitoring plan that is presented below:
Phase         What             Where            How            When             Why             Cost        Responsibility
paramieter is to be   is the     is the parameter     is the          is the
monitored?     parameter to  to be monitored!  parameter to   parameter to be
be monitored?      type of      be monzitored-   monitored
monitorinig    frequency of     (optional)?
equipmenlt?    measurement
or conitinuous?
Operation   Presently        In the location   - physical    -weekly         The basis for   Annual costs   Presently the
of the     following         of the 7        -chemical                      the selected     are estimated    Health
landfill    parameters are    piezometers                                    parameters is the  at 20,000 USD   Protection
monitored:        (Attachment 1)                                 Law on                          Institute and the
-bacteriological  -monthly      Communal                        water company
- BOD5                           (BOD)                           Services and                    carry out the
- COD                                                            Regulations                     tests. Both these
- pH                                                             related to                      agencies report
- Electric                                                       sewerage and                    to Drisla. In the
conductivity                                                     drinking water                  future, under the
- NH3                                                                                            project, a private
- N                                                                                               laboratory will
- Nitrites                                                                                       conduct the
[-Di ssol_ ed                                                                                    tests.
| Oxygen                                                                                                1
15



Attachment 3
Annex 1: List of attendees
of the public consultation meeting on solid waste in Skopje
held in Skopje, on 14 March 2001
16



Attachment 3
No.             Name                    Institution               Position
I        Risto Penov              City of Skopje              Mayor
2        Vlado Buckovski          City Council                President
3        Resad Mahmud             Environmental Association
Opstanok
4      Imeri Gureci              Municipality of Kondovo
5      Kosta Ilievski           MZK. Voda                    President
6      Branko Nikolovski        Environmental Association
Opstanok
7      Adnan Saracini           Municipality of Kondovo      Councilor for
Environment
8      Boban Bojkovski          Ecological Movement of       --
Macedonia
9      Liri Starova Suljeman    Municipality of Aracinovo    Councilor for
Urbanism
10     Jugoslav Jovanovic       Fund for environment        Economist
11     Lence Kurcieva           Ministry of Environment      Lawvyer
12     Stefce Jakomovski        Municipality of Kondovo     Mayor
13     Blaze Arsovski           Municipality of Petrovec    Head of Department
17



Attachment 3
No.             Name                    Institution              Position
15     Agim Mahmuti             Municipality of Saraj       Councilor for
Environment.
16     Voislav Kirandjic        Municipality of Cucer-      Mayor
Sandevo
17     Zdravko Zdravkovski      Municipality of Cair        Inspector
18     Pece Mirceski            Municipality of Kisela Voda   Councilor for
Environment
19     Cele Ristevski           Ministry of agriculture, forest  Head of Department
and water
20     Cvetanka Ikonomova-      City of Skopje, Committee   Vice President
Martinovska             for communal activities
21     Dobre Bosilkovski        Public enterprise Komunalna   Director of
Higiena, Skopje            Mechanization
Department
22     Projko Despotovski       Public enterprise Komunalna   General Director
Higiena, Skopje
23     Goce Celevski            Public enterprise Komunalna   Director of
Higiena, Skopje            Department
24     Velika Ivkova            Director of Mechanization   Director of Finances
Komunalna Higiena, Skopje
25     Kire Gorevski            Municipality of Sopiste     Mayor
26     Ljubomir Velkovic        Municipality of Centar      Councilor for
Environment
18



Attachment 3
No.             Name                    Institution               Position
27     Mile Mihajlovski         Municipality of G. Petrov    Inspector
28     Dragan Poposki           Public enterprise Drisla,    Head of Department
Skopje
29     Georgi Velevski          Public enterprise Drisla,    General Manager
Skopje
30     Jovica Golic             Ministry of Transport and    Councilor
Communications
31     Sokol Klincarov          Ministry of Environment      Head of Department
32     Ljubisa Jovanovski       Municipality of Sopiste      Councilor for
Communal Hygiene
WB82273
P:\MACEDONI\INFRA\WATERSUP\2LENA\EAI .DOC
April 5, 2001 11:09 AM
19



