REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA                 GIBB
Ministry of Urbanism                 GLBB
Construction                     LAWGIBB Group Member
Water Utility Improvement Project
Skopje, Bitola and Prilep
E- 351
Environmental Assessment
February 2000
in association with
GRANffPROEKT



LAWGIBB
DOCUMENT CONTROL SHEET
CLIENT:                   Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, Republic of Macedonia
PROJECT:                 Water Utility Improvement Project                                     JOB NO: J98241a
TITLE:                    Environmental Assessment
Prepared by                       Reviewed by                        Approved by
ORIGINAL                      NAME                                 UWNAE                                 NAME
JC Ah Man                           D Roberts                             JBC               y
DATE                          SIGA
February 2000                    11                                                                   ,/_____ L
REVISION                      NAME                                 NAE                                   NAME
DATE                           SITURE SIG                       I     TURE                               SMONATURE
REVISION                       NAME                                                                   - WE  NAME
DATE                           SIGNATLtERE                                                               SIGNATURE
REVISION                       NAME                                NAME                                  NAME
DATE                           SIGNATURE                           SIGNATtFRE                            SIGNATURE
Ths report, and information or advice which it contains, is prvided by GIBB solely for internal use and, reliance by itS Client in performance of GIBBs duties and liabilites
under its contract with the Client. Any advice. opanions. or recormendations within this report should be read and retied upon only in the context of the report as a whole. The
advice and opinions in this report are based upon the informiabon rmade available to GIBB at the date of this report and on curnent UK standards, codes, technology and
construction practices as at the date of this report. Following final deivery of this report to the Client, GIBB will have no further obligations or duty to advise the Client on any
matters, including development affecting the information or advice provided in this report. This report has been prepared by GtBB in their professional capacity as Consulting
Engineers. The contents of the report do not. in any way, purport to idcude any manner of legal advice or opinion. This report is prepared in accordance with the tenns and
conditions of GIBB's contract With the Client. Regard should be had to those terns and conditions when considering and/or pacing any reliance on ths report. Should the
Client wish to release this report to a Third Party for that party's reliance, GIBB may, at its discretion, agree to such release provided that:
(a)        GIBBs written agreement is obtained pnor to such release, and
(b)        By release of the report to the Third Party. that Thinrd Party does not acquire any rights, contractual or otherwise, whatsoever against GIBB and GIBB.
accordingly, assume no duties. liabilities or obligations to that Third Party, and
(c)        GIBB accepts no responsibility for any loss or darmage incurred by the Client or for any. confiict of GIBEs interests arising out of the Clients release of this
report to the Third Party.
GIBB Ltd,
GIBB House,
London Road,
Reading,
Berkshire RG6 1 BL
Tel +44 (0) 118 963 5000 Fax +44 (0) 118 949 1054 Website www.gibbltd.com



Republic of Macedonia
Water Utility Improvement Project
Environmental Assessment
February 2000



Republic of Macedonia
Water Utility Improvement Project
Environmental Assessment
CONTENTS
Chapter   Description                                                       Page
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION                                                      1-1
1.1   Background to the project                                   1-1
1.2   Report Structure                                            1-2
2          ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND LEGISLATION                               2-1
2.1   Background                                                  2-1
2.2   Environmental policy                                        2-1
2.3   Organisations involved in environmental protection          2-2
2.4   Relevant legislation for environmental protection            2-4
2.5   Construction Permit                                          2-6
3          SKOPJE SUB-PROJECT                                                 3-1
3.1   Background                                                   3-1
3.2   Location and description of water supply rehabilitation components  3-1
3.3   Location and description of sewerage rehabilitation components    3-2
3.4   Location and description of groundwater production wells projects   3-2
3.5   Environmental baseline                                       3-2
3.6   Environmental impacts of the projects                        3-6
3.7   Mitigation Measures                                          3-8
4          BITOLA SUB-PROJECT                                                  4-1
4.1   Background                                                   4-1
4.2   Environmental baseline                                       4-1
4.3   Environmental impacts of the projects                        4-2
4.4   Mitigation Measures                                          4.3
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                                             Issue 1.01 February 2000



5          PRILEP SUB-PROJECT                                                  5-1
5.1   Background                                                   5-1
5.2   Environmental baseline                                       5-1
5.3   Environmental impacts of the projects                        5-2
5.4   Mitigation Measures                                          5-3
6          ENVIRONMENTAL MANGEMENT PLAN                                        6-1
6.1   Background                                                   6-1
6.2   Construction Phase Plan                                      6-1
6.3   Operation Phase Environmental Management Plan                6-3
6.4   Monitoring Requirements                                      6-3
6.5   Cost of Environmental Management Plan                        6-4
7          CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                     7-1
7.1   Background                                                   7-1
7.2   Beneficial impacts                                           7-1
7.3   Adverse impacts                                              7-1
7.4   Recommendations                                              7-1
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                                              Issue 1.0/ February 20ak)



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
This Environmental Assessment was undertaken as part of the Water Utility
Improvement Project in Skopje, Bitola and Prilep and considered the potential
impacts on the environment of the rehabilitation works proposed.
The projects have no significant environmental impact and do not pose a risk to
human health and can thus be classified as a Category B project as per the World
Bank environmental and operational policy.
There are a large number of laws that are directly related to environmental protection,
as well as many documented policies regarding management of the environment.
An important part of the application of the environmental policies and laws is the
process required in Macedonia to obtain the construction permit for any project, which
includes the requirement for environmental considerations.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECTS
The project comprises the following components:
Sub-project in Skopje
* Water supply rehabilitation
S Sewerage rehabilitation
C Construction of irrigation water production wells
Sub-project in Bitola
Water supply zoning reconstruction and storage
Water supply pipeline rehabilitation
Sub-project in Prilep
* Sewerage rehabilitation
The works, which consist of construction of water and sewerage pipelines, service
reservoirs and pumping stations are required to improve the condition of the water
supply and of the sewerage systems in the cities.
BENEFICIAL IMPACTS
Overall the impacts of the proposed project are beneficial.  The proposed
rehabilitation of the sewerage in Skopje will improve the condition of the Vardar River
over 5 kilometres. This improved condition will bring great amenity benefits for the
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                                          Issue 1.0/ February 2000



inhabitants of the high density residential area through which the river flows. The
other benefits of the sewerage projects are improvement in sanitary conditions, which
occur when pumps break down in the project areas and improved groundwater
quality.
The water supply will improve the social condition for the people living in high rise
apartments and also provide water to some villages on the outskirts of Skopje. The
inhabitants of Bitola can expect similar benefits after completion of the project. An
additional benefit is the reduced leakage expected from a rehabilitated water supply
system.
Improved water quality in the Oreovecka river is expected in Prilep on completion of
the project.
ADVERSE IMPACTS
Assuming that the management and monitoring measures in the Environmental
Management Plan are implemented the adverse impacts of the project are limited and
are primarily related to the impacts associated with the construction including noise,
dust and increased traffic loads on local roads.
Although no adverse effect is expected the effect of groundwater abstraction on the
Vardar river must be monitored to safeguard the flows in the river.
RECOMMENDATIONS
The recommendations are as follows:
*  Implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and mitigation measures
by the contractors responsible for the construction of the works with supervision
by the Project Management Unit
*  Monitoring of groundwater levels in Skopje to establish more clearly the effect of
using groundwater for irrigation on the flows in the Vardar River to be carried out
by the Parks department.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                                           Issue 1.0 I February 2000



INTRODUCTION
GIBB Ltd was appointed by the Ministry of Urban Planning and Construction in July
1998 to carry out a water utility improvement project for the following towns in
Macedonia:
* Skopje which had a population within the municipality of 4454000 in the census of
1994
* Bitola with a municipal population of 86,000 people in 1994
Prilep with a municipal population of 72,000 people in 1994.
The projects are to be funded jointly by the IBRD and the IDA.
This environmental assessment has been prepared as a supporting document for the
Water Utility Improvement Project.  It is the last of a series of environmental
assessments carried out during the course of the project as project definition and
components are amended and refined. This assessment is based on the latest list.
The projects have no significant environmental impact and do not pose a risk to
human health and can thus be classified as a Category B project as per the World
Bank environmental and operational policy.
This report discusses the results of the Environmental Assessment (EA) for the
project. The EA covers the following:
* overview of Macedonian environmental policy and legislation
* assessment of the environmental baseline conditions
*  description of the project
*  environmental impacts of the project
* mitigation measures
* environmental Management Plan
* conclusions and recommendations.
1.1   Background to the project
The Republic of Macedonia is a land locked country with a population estimated in
1994 at some 1.94 million people. Macedonia's infrastructure is underdeveloped and
poses a constraint to the growth of productive capacity in the economy. There has
been a lack of investment in the country's water and wastewater infrastructure.
Considerable investment is required to modemise, rehabilitate and expand the
existing water supply and sewerage systems. The most immediate concem is the
general lack of wastewater treatment facilities in the major towns. The lack of
wastewater treatment facilities has contributed directly to the general deterioration of
the environment over the last decade. The water and sewerage companies in
Macedonia are unable to finance the rehabilitation and expansion of the country's
water and wastewater infrastructure, because current tariff levels are set only to
recover the companies' operating costs. However recent trends have indicated a
political willingness to increase tariffs to more realistic levels.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD. J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc               1-1                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



Republic of Macedonia
i0 0igure 1  20 4;,=  0  Ki!onnteu  20 m.
Figure 1                                        



Skopje is the capital of Macedonia with the largest population of the country and[ is
located on the Vardar River, the main river in the country. The Vardar River
eventually reaches Greece before discharging into the Aegean Sea at Thessaloniki.
Bitola and Prilep are major towns located in the south-west of Macedonia. Bitola is
located on the River Dragor and Prilep is located on the Orevoecka River. Both these
rivers are within the Vardar catchment area. All wastewater are presently discharged
to the local rivers. The location -of Skopje, Bitola and Prilep in the Republic of
Macedonia is shown in Figure 1.
The following sub-projects and their estimated costs have been identified:
Sub-projects                           Estimated costs
million US$
Skopje Sub-project                          35.1
Bitola Sub-project                           6.2
Prilep Sub-project                           1.1
Project management unit                      2.2
Total                                       44.6
1.2   Report Structure
The report has been structured to lead the reader logically through the process of this
environmental assessment. The background for the project is presented in this
chapter with the institutional and legal framework described in Chapter 2. Each sub-
project for Skopje, Bitola and Prilep is assessed separately in Chapters 4, 5 and 6.
Each chapter provides the environmental baseline conditions encountered, the impact
of the project and the mitigation proposed. Chapter 6 describes the environmental
management plan proposed for the whole project.  Chapter 7 summarises the
conclusions reached in this assessment and makes recommendations on the
mitigation measures.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                 1-2                          Issue 1.01 February 2000



2  ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND LEGISLATION
2.1   Background
There is a large number of laws that are directly related to environmental protection,
as well as many documented policies regarding management of the environment.
There is presently no Macedonian legislation describing the specific requirements of
environmental assessments.  The Macedonian Ministry of the Environment is
currently drafting legislation conceming the above. The requirements of the World
Bank have therefore been adopted for the presentation of this environmental
assessment. This chapter provides an outline of the environmental policy and
legislation that is relevant to the project. An important part of the application of the
environmental policies and laws is the process required in Macedonia to obtain the
construction permit for any project, which includes the requirement for environmental
considerations.
2.2   Environmental policy
Macedonian environmental policy is outlined in the following two documents:
* National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
* National Environmental Health Action Plan (NEHAP).
2.2.1 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
Macedonia is currently implementing the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
which was published in 1997 by the Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction and
Environment (MUPCE). The NEAP defines policy and priority actions and identifies
areas that are of concem to human health and the environment. The environmental
policies which will be developed will be in compliance with European Union (EU)
standards in order to allow Macedonia to have access to trans-European markets.
The NEAP has been prepared with the following policy objectives:
sustainable development, satisfying the need for sustainable development,
satisfying the needs of present generations, but not threatening the right and the
opportunity for the future generations
integrity of sectoral policies and the environmental policy, harmonised with the
need of balancing prevention and cure
accomplishing economic and technical development, which will not cause further
pressure on the environment
*     polluter pays and user pays principles
*     public participation and the right to know.
The current environmental policy builds on the approach of being rehabilitative, to
improve current environment quality by addressing existing sources of pollution and to
be preventive to protect the environment from new sources of pollution and degradation.
The government presently controls the environmental aspects of all construction
projects through specific requirements identified during the study phase,
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. i:nv.Assess.doc             2-1                        Issue 1.0/ February 2000



requirements, which are then incorporated in the construction permit.  The
requirements, which should be in agreement with the policies set out above are
detailed below.
2.2.2 National Environmental Health Action Plan (NEHAP)
In addition to NEAP, the Ministry of Health has developed a National Environmental
Health Action Plan (NEHAP) in collaboration with MUPCE. The first draft of this
document published in April 1998.
The NEHAP includes a policy on water quality. This policy has been developed in
line with the World Health Organisation's Health For All Target 2000 on water quality.
The policy states that "by the year 2000, all people should have access to adequate
supplies of safe drinking water and the pollution of groundwater sources, rivers lakes
and seas should no longer pose a threat to health". The actions identified in the
NEHAP for water are to be undertaken by various bodies including Ministry of Health,
MUPCE and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
2.3   Organisations involved in environmental protection
There are a number of Government ministries, which have a role in environmental
protection in Macedonia. These ministries include:
* Ministry of Urbanism and Construction
* Ministry of the Environment
* Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy
M Ministry of Health
- Hydrometeorological Institute
M Ministry of Culture.
2.3.1 Ministry of Urbanism and Construction
The Ministry of Urbanism and Construction is the organisation, which delivers the
construction permit required before the start of any construction work. The Ministry is
also responsible for providing initial agreement to the location of the project within the
urban planning framework of the country. The permitting procedure is described
below.
2.3.2 Ministry of the Environment
Until 1999 the Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction and Environment (MUPCE)
had the prime responsibility to set and enforce policies on environmental protection
for Macedonia. In 1999 under the Law on Amendment of the Law on Govemment
Organisations, the Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction and Environment was
split into the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction (MUC) and the Ministry of
Environment.
The Ministry of the Environment comprises the following:
* Republic Environmental Inspectorate
* Environmental Information Centre
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc               2-2                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



* Agency for Environment and Nature Protection and Promotion
* Department of Environmental Management
* Environment Fund
* Department of National Eco-legislation and Standardisation
* Department of Sustainable Development
* Department of International Co-operation.
An organisational chart for the Ministry of the Environment is shown in Figure 2.1
below.
Minister's Council
Depty Minister |
Under Secretary
Executive                       for Eco-policy and
under-secretary                 Sustainable Development
Republic     Environmental    Department of  Depaent nt of  Department    Departmnent
Environment    Informution    Environmnental  National Eco- of Sustainable  of International
Inspectorate     Cente        Management    legisatin   Developmnent  Co-operation
Agency for    I Environment
Environment .     Fund
and Nature
Protection
and Promotion:
Figure 2.1    Organisational  chart for  the  Macedonian  Ministry  for  the
Environment
The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for enforcement of laws on
environmental protection but it has limited resources. The enforcement side is
undertaken by State Environmental Inspectors, of which there are currently six for the
whole country. The inspectors tend to liaise with industry and operate on a reactive
and persuasive basis to environmental problems, such as observed fish kills. Other
organisations and inspectors monitor environmental conditions such as water, soil
and air quality. However, co-ordination among the agencies is inadequate and this
can lead to duplication of efforts in data collection and also responsibilities in
enforcement.
2.3.3  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy (MAFWE)
The MAFWE monitors the quality of food products and the method of production and
the water economy section sets the water resources policies for Macedonia. The
water economy section is also responsible for the enforcement of the Law on Waters
whereby permits are required for new industrial operators or for all abstraction of
water.
Water Utility Improvement Project Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                     2-3                               Issue 1.0/ February 2000



2.3.4  Ministry of Health
The Ministry of Health is responsible for the quality of food products and
environmental conditions. It undertakes monitoring of air quality, water quality and
soil quality in areas, which have the potential to affect human health. The Agency for
Protection of Public Health monitors water quality in all drinking water sources and
also in some rivers. In addition the agency collects and analyses epidemiological
data on waterbome diseases.
2.3.5  Hydrometeorological Institute (HMI)
In compliance with the Law on Waters, the quality of surface, ground and wastewater
is monitored by the Hydrometeorological Institute (HMI). In compliance with the
regulations on Hygienic Properties of Drinking Water, 29 parameters are monitored
and the water is classified into five categories, with Class I being the highest quality.
A summary of the requirements for each class is provided in Section 2.4.
2.3.6  Ministry of Culture
The Ministry of Culture is responsible for the protection of archaeological and cultural
heritage sites and concems.
2.4   Relevant legislation for environmental protection
There are a number of laws in Macedonia which form the basis for the protection of
the environment. These include:
*  Law on Natural Rarity Conservation 1973
*  Law on Environment and Nature Protection and Promotion 1996
*  Law on the Protection of the Ohrid, Prespa and Dojran Lakes 1977
*  Law on National Park Conservation 1980
*  Law on Spatial and Urban Planning 1996
*  Law on Hunting 1996
*  Law on Fisheries 1993
*  Law on Forests 1997
*  Law on Waters 1998
*  Law on Investment Structure Construction 1990
*  Law on Geological Research and Mineral Raw Material Exploitation 1988
*  Law on Protection against Fire 1986
*  Law on Meadow and Pasture Management and Usage 1974
*  Law on Air Protection 1974, 1981, 1990 and 1993
*  Law on Harmful Noise Prevention 1984
A short description of the more relevant laws is provided below:
2.4.1  Law on Waters 6198
The monitoring of the surface and groundwater and water management are covered
by the Law on Waters 1998. In accordance with Article 92 of the Law on Waters, the
National Hydrometeorological Agency located in Skopje is responsible for the regular
Water UUlity Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc              2-4                         Issue 1.0 IFebruary 2000



monitoring of the status of water quality and for detecting potential water pollution due
to industrial breakdowns.
The Law on Waters 1998 requires industries to take measures to control effluents to
be discharged to rivers. According to the law, the Ministry of the Environment in
collaboration with the Ministry of Water Economy has a duty to provide some
guidance to certain industries in relation to establishment of norms for effluent
standards, which are to be enforced by the Ministry of the Environment. In addition,
-    the polluting industries are required to provide some pre-treatment of the industrial
effluents. A water economy licence (permit) is also required and for the operation of
the proposed wastewater treatment plant.
2.4.2  Regulations for Water Classification, Law 9184 as modified by Law 18/99
This regulation provides a water classification system based on water quality
objectives. Surface waters are divided in four categories according to their function
and the level of purity. Brief details of the water classification system are given
below.
Class I     Class I are waters that in their natural condition are suitable for
migratory salmonid fish and irrigation. Class I water requires some
treatment before being used for drinking water.
Class II     Class II are waters that can be used for recreational purposes such as
swimming and water-sports. Class iI waters are also suitable for
migratory fish such as trout. Class II waters can be used for irrigation
and after treatment for drinking.
Class IlIl   Class IlIl are waters that can be used for irrigation and after some
treatment can also be used by the industries that do not require water
for drinking water purposes.
Class IV     Class IV are waters that can be used only for irrigation and industry
after adequate treatment.
The classification of water was revised in March 1999. The revised classification
distinguishes water quality and the subsequent use of the water between five
classifications. The first three classifications remain as above. Class IV has been
broadened to distinguish between polluted water in which
* harmful solutions can vary from the level of chronic to acute toxicity to aquatic life
(Class IV)
*  harmful substances exceeds the acute toxicity levels for aquatic life (Class V).
The classification of waters is the responsibility of the Hydrometeorological Institute,
who provides guidance on the classification required by law.
The relevant water quality indicators and maximum allowable concentrations for the
water are given in Table 2.1.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                2-5                           Issue 1.0/ February 2000



Table 2.1      Parameters for Water Quality Classification
Table. Water Quality Classification
Water Quality Indicators                  Maximal level - concentrations
I class    2;class    3 class    4 class
1. Dissolved oxygen mg/l 02 at least (minimum) (is
not applied for ground water and lakes)           8          6          4          3
2. Saturation with Oxygen % Supersaturation (air)    90-105  75-90    50-75      30-50
-      105-115    115-125    125-130
3. Five - day bio-chemical oxygen demand
BOD -5 mg/l 02                                    2          4          7          20
4. Chemical oxygen demand KMnO4 mg/l             10         12         20          40
(permanganate value)
5. Total suspended substances mg/l               10         30         80         100
6. Dry sediment of untreated water - dissolved
substances                                       350       1000       1500        1500
- surface water mg/l                             350       1000       1500         -
- ground water karst mgA                         800       1000       1500
- nonkarst mg/l
7. pH-value                                    6,8-8,5    6,8-8,5    6,0-9,0    6,0-9,0
8. Coliforms in 1 litre
- for bathing                                   2000      100 000    200 000
-       20 000
9. Saprogenic degree after Liebman (not applied  Oligo-    Meso       Meso       Meso
for ground waters and lakes)                    sapro-   saprogeni  saprogeni  saprogeni
genic       c          c           c
polisapro-
genic
1 0. Degree of biological productivity (only for  oligo   Medium    eutrophic
lakes)                                         trophic  |
2.5    Construction Permit
A normal procedure in the pre-construction period is to obtain the necessary permits
for construction from the various bodies appointed by law to issue such permits.
These permits are necessary to ensure that the proposed constructions are in
accordance with the relevant legislation regarding such projects. The required list of
the documents, permits, authorisations or statements is presented in Table 2.1 below.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                       2-6                                Issue 1.0 / February 2000



Table 2.1      Permits and Authorisations required for Construction Projects
Permit          Description of required documents                Issuing Authority
No
1       Technical documentation and quality control certificate    Ministry of Urban Planning and
Construction
2        Construction Authorisation                        Ministry of Urban Planning and
Construction
3       Application for statement on compliance with urban plan  Ministry of Urban Planning and
Construction
4        Land deeds or proof of property                   Cadastre
5       Confirmation of proof of property                  Cadastre
6        Statement of development tax                      Public  enterprise  for urban
planning and construction
7        Payment certificate for development tax           Public  enterpnse  for urban
planning and construction
8       Technical  documentation  regarding  water  and  Ministry of Agriculture/ water
application for water permit                      economy department
9        Electrical requirements                            Electricity utility
10      Electrical system design                           Electricity utility
11      Application for Water supply, sewerage and solid waste  Communal  enterprise/ water
services                                          company
12      Application for delivery of mail                   Post office
13      Access arrangement                                 Municipality! City council
14      Fire fighting arrangement                          Fire brigade
15      Building regulations compliance                    Municipality
16      Statement on operation and maintenance of buildings    Municipality
17      Application for a Social and environmental condition  Municipality
statement
18      Application to military authorities                 Ministry of defence
19      Requirements for war shelter                        Ministry of defence
20       Application for change of use for agricultural land  Municipality
The most important permit is No 2 as issued by the Ministry of Urbanism and
Construction (in accordance with Article 31, in connection with Articles 7 and 25 of the
Law on Spatial and Urban Planning). The permit will set out the conditions of
construction which set the limits to the Developer regarding the actions he is allowed
to take in order not to endanger the property or interests of others.
The conditions of construction as given on the permit vary from case to case,
depending on the location of the structure in relation to other objects and
infrastructure, scope of works, environment, industrial sector, technology, etc.
Requirements of the environmental protection are regularly included as part of the
permit.
The -Developer must provide a written statement (Permit No 17) on thre social benefits
of proposed works (Article 10-a, the Law on Investment Structure Construction). This
statement is issued by the central administrative institution responsible for planning in
the field for which the opinion is required (normally the Municipality). The statement
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD. J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                        2-7                                Issue 1.0/ February 2000



must present all the social and the environmental benefits as well as possible
negative impacts of the proposed project. The statement is issued within 30 days
from the application. This statement must accompany the application for Permit No 2.
The Developer is required to provide the technical documentation necessary for the
construction (Article 15, the Law on Investment Structure Construction). For the works
pertaining to the water sector this documentation has to be prepared in accordance
with the Water Management Master Plan for the Republic of Macedonia (Article 25,
the Law on Waters, Official Gazette No 4/98). Part of the technical documentation
that should be presented before the project is approved for execution is a Water
Permit i.e. Permit No 8.
Each user of natural resources (company, enterprise or other legal entity) requires
water permits as required under Article 9, the Law on Waters. Article 56 specifies the
requirements that the Investor should fulfil in order to obtain a Water Permit. Issues
related to the procedure of granting the water permits are stipulated in Articles 9, 25,
31, 43, 51, 87 and 88 of the Law on Waters..
In order to obtain a water permit the Developer has to present, among others,
documentation that shows that changes in the water regime which will be created by
the project will not endanger the environment (Article 56, the Law on Waters). The
organisation responsible for issuing the Water Permit is the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Water Management - Department of Water Management. The Law
does not specify the length of the procedure. A Water Permit is not required if the
proposed project does not change the existing water regime (Article 43, the Law on
Waters). The Law on Waters also specifies that the legal entities that produce
wastewaters must have wastewater treatment plants, although no effluent nomns are
prescribed in the existing legislation (Articles 87 and 88, the Law on Waters).
The Law on Environment and Nature Protection in Article 24 specifies that all legal
entities which posses or intend to build structures, that may be polluting the
environment should prepare documents that show how the environmental issues will
be dealt with. Details about the content of this document are not specified, nor are the
procedures that should be followed.
The central administrative institution responsible for the field of urban planning and
construction (i.e. Ministry of Urban Planning and Construction) is responsible for the
control of technical documentation relating to regional water supply systems, regional
wastewater systems and wastewater treatment plants (Article 17-12 the Law on
Investment Structure Construction). This institution, upon presentation of the
complete technical documentation, issues a Construction Permit (Article 18, 12 the
Law on Investment Structure Construction). Again, no details are specified in the Law
about the duration of the procedure, although it has been reported that it may last
from 30 to 90 days.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                 2-8                          Issue 1.0/ February 2000



3   SKOPJE SUB-PROJECT
3.1    Background
The sub-project comprises the following components:
* Water supply rehabilitation
* Sewerage rehabilitation
* Construction of irrigation water production wells
Figure 2 shows the location of the projects in Skopje.
The purpose of the water distribution project is to improve the reliability of the water
supply to some areas of Skopje and the operating efficiency of the distribution
system.
The sewerage project will improve the efficiency of the sewerage system by
conversion to a gravity system. The extension of the collectors will improve the water
and atmospheric environment in the high density residential area through which the
Vardar River runs.
The construction of production wells for irrigation water is intended to reduce the
reliance on the use of potable water for irrigation of parks and green areas.
In addition to the above components private sector participation is to be promoted to
improve the overall efficiency of the utility. Technical assistance is also to be
provided to enable the implementation of the above programme.
A description of the components of the project is provided below.
3.2   Location and description of water supply rehabilitation components
The water rehabilitation projects are intended to improve supply to six locations in the
city, namely-
*  Kapiste
*  Vodno, Kozle and Zdanec
.  Prvomajska
*  Hippodrome
*  Novo Selo
*  Usje village
The projects consist of installation of pipelines, construction of reservoirs and
pumping stations in various parts of the city.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                3-1                           Issue 1.0 / February 2000



14J, I
-l WA MA
3rsn
9*40M =!- #d 412
Ma -1
"!N
MV-ld'
SEW
e
v W. H0183 d
0 31"d.
rMM
WONG:
Or
Mm"
ie                                               L
7..'
AS
4
7 1
_1W
Q,
... F-w                                                                                                                                              7
A W01031)403.d
'nz,
'41 a 3 u,
03
OAOCINO)l
7
OAO)rM
7                                                                       IOAOCWP



3.3   Location and description of sewerage rehabilitation components
The sewerage rehabilitation projects are intended to improve the operation of the
system by eliminating about 4 sewage pumping stations, which are frequently
breaking down resulting in overflowing of the sewers. Improvements are expected in
the following areas:
*  11'h October residential area
* Madzari
* Sindzelic
Construction of the collectors is intended to improve the quality of the Vardar River
especially over the stretch along which the collector is to be constructed. The
proposed collectors will complete the collector system for Skopje and will terminate at
the site of the future wastewater treatment plant.
The proposed works include construction of sewer pipelines, a pumping station and
some screening facilities.
3.4   Location and description of groundwater production wells projects
It is proposed that in the long term about 50 boreholes with an installed maximum
capacity of about 800 I/s are constructed to provide irrigation water for the city parks
and green areas. The boreholes are to be constructed all over the city at locations
convenient for irrigation of the green areas.
The aquifer runs along the Vardar river for a width of up to 1 kilometre and
groundwater is available within this one kilometre strip.
3.5   Environmental baseline
3.5.1 Climate
The climate in Skopje is a modified Mediterranean, semi-arid one with warm and
relatively dry summers and cold winters. Average air temperature varies between
about 1 and 25 degrees celsius with minimum and maximum of -7 and 42 degrees.
Annual average precipitation is 474 mm and relative humidity is between 53% in the
summer and 82% during winter.
3.5.2 Water environment
Skopje is situated on the Vardar River, which is the main river in Macedonia -with- a
total catchment area covering 80% of the country and a catchment area upstream of
Skopje itself of about 20%. Several important communities such as Tetovo, Gostivar,
Kicevo are situated at least 50 km upstream of Skopje. It is expected that because of
the relatively mountainous region through which the river runs the pollution generated
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc               3-2                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



by those communities will have been mostly removed by natural means before the
river reaches Skopje.
This is confirmed by published results for measurements made upstream of Skopje
which shows that the Class 11 legal requirement is mostly met. The legal requirement
downstream of Skopje is Class Ill but this requirement is not always attained and on
many occasions the river can only achieve Class IV.
-The collector system has been completed for a distance of about 3 km downstream of
the city centre and this has improved the water and air quality within the city centre.
However the problem has been transferred to the residential areas downstream of the
centre.
The largest industrial area in Skopje is situated downstream of the existing ouffall and
the industries presently discharge their untreated wastewater directly into the local
watercourses which then runs into the Vardar River. No effective control exists on the
quality of the disposed industrial wastewater.
The volume of wastewater from Skopje is estimated at about 3 m3/s whilst the
minimum flow in the Vardar River is on average 15 m3/s but can be as low as 5 m3/s.
This flow does not allow much dilution, which is the most efficient method for
reduction of pollution. Thus assuming a BOD5 level of about 100 mg/I in the
wastewater, the theoretical BOD5 level in the recipient downstream of Skopje can
vary between 40 mg/l and 5 mg/l in summer but on average should be an estimated
15 mg/I.
The range of flows in the Vardar river is presented on Table 3.1. The flows in the
Vardar river and its main tributary the Treska river is dependent on the regulation
provided by the following impoundments, the Mavrovo lake, Matka lake and Kozjak
lake. Releases from the lake can change the flow and the water quality in the river.
Table 3.1    Flow Measurements in the Vardar River
Location                     Skopje                       Veles
Minimum Flow   Maximum Flow   Minimum Flow   Maximum Flow
in Year       in Year        in Year        in Year
m3Is          m3Is           m31s           m3Is
Average(1961-1990)     15.4          332.4          19.1          452.5
Maximum(1961-1990)    27.6          1,108.1         32.6         1,300.0
Minimum(1961-1990)     5.2           79.2           7.9           109.0
(Source -Jica, 1999)
The measurements of water quality carried out in 1996 are presented on Table 3.2. It
shows that the BOD5 level in the river downstream of Skopje in August 1996 is just
within the limit for Class Ill which is 7 mg/I. Examination of the other results show
some inconsistency particularly when the BOD5 level in the centre of Skopje is higher
than downstream. Incorrect sampling may be the cause of the inconsistent results.
Notwithstanding the inconsistency of the test results they are within the range
expected by theoretical calculations.
The level of suspended solids is also quite high especially in the winter when it is
above the requirement for Class Ill of 80 mg/I.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                 3-3                          Issue 1.0/ February 2000



Table 3.2    Water quality measurement in the Vardar River
Location       Skopje Upstream            Skopje           Skopje Downstream
Date       Suspended    BOD5    Suspended    BODs    Suspended    BODs
Solids      mg/l      Solids       mgIl       Solids      mg/l
mgJI                   mg/l                   mgIl
24.01.96                              90         0.99        110        2.29
27.02.96       70         1.30        100        5.20        45         6.30
02.04.96       65         2.22        57         6.27        70         4.04
28.05.96       80         0.83        55         1.22        60         4.63
01.07.96       40         1.73       102         6.91        70         5.53
27.08.96       56         0.17       107         1.77        63         6.48
29.10.96       25         2.20        35         4.71       125         4.64
18.12.96       15         2.13        70        1.62        120         3.30
(Source - Jica, 1999)
Recreational use of the Vardar River is an activity that is enjoyed by many people.
The Municipality has in the past encouraged the use of the river by constructing
footpaths and providing landscaped areas along the banks but much of the works
have fallen in ruins. Fishing in the Vardar upstream and even in the stretch within the
city centre is a favourite activity for many inhabitants of Skopje and has been possible
because of the Class II classification created by the construction of the existing
collector.
3.5.3  Public Health
There is no reported problem or concern over public health in Skopje. The water
supply is fairly reliable and large areas are provided with sewerage.  Public
awareness over the water quality in the river especially downstream is high and
therefore contact with river water is avoided.
There is however some concern for inhabitants of villages on the outskirts of Skopje
who have to rely on superficial groundwater for water supply. There is no systematic
control on the quality of the groundwater and it is therefore difficult to pinpoint the
cause and effect problem of groundwater quality. The inhabitants are mostly aware
of the potential problem but there is nevertheless a high risk of disease.
The absence of wastewater treatment either for the municipal wastewater or for the
industries is a cause for concem because groundwater from the alluvial plains of the
Vardar is directly linked to the river. The water from wells dug into the alluvial plain
although filtered through the gravel and sand is nevertheless still bacteriologically
polluted and therefore requires proper disinfection before it can be used.
3.5.4  Flora and Fauna
An ecological and biodiversity inventory survey of the Vardar river was carried out as
part of the Integrated water resources master plan for Macedonia completed for the
Ministry of Development and the Japanese international Co-operation Agency (Jica)
in 1999. The results of the survey are summarised below.
The Vardar river was found to be poor in plankton but fairly rich in algae indicating
eutrophication. There were reported 29 species of 11 fish families in 1968 but this has
Water Utility Improvement Project. Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                  3-4                            Issue 1.0 1 February 2000



now been reduced to 17 species of 5 families when surveyed in February 1998. The
river crab (Potamobius astacus) previously present is now extinct. The predominant
species presently identified are Chub (Leuciscus cephalus) and nose carp
(Chondrostoma nasus). The more detailed fish survey carried out in June 1998 has
identified the presence of the following 24 fish species:
Table 3.3     Fish species identified in the Vardar by survey carried out by Jica
1. Salmo trutta macedonicus (Class II water only)
2. Salmo gairdnen indeus (Class II water only)
3. Rutilus macedonicus
4. Leuciscus cephalus
5. Phoxinus phoxinus
6. Chondrostoma nasus vardarensis
7. Gobio gobio lepidolaemus (possibly Class IV water)
8. Gobio kesslen
9. Gobio uranoscopus
10. Barbus barbus macedonicus
11. Barbus mendionalis (possibly Class IV)
12. Albumus albumus macedonicus
13. Albumoides bipunctatus
14. Vimba vimba melanops
15. Rhodeus cereus amarus
16. Cypnnuscarpio
17. Carassius carassius (possibly Class IV water)
18. Carassius auratus gibelio
19. Noemacheilus barbatus vardarensis
20. Cobitis taenia vardarensis
21. Silurus glanis
22. Perca fluviatitlis macedonica
23. Pseudorasbora parva
24. Ictalurus nebulosus
The presence of the salmonid species as shown above is an indicator of Class ll
water which exists in the upper reaches of the Treska river, a tributary of the Vardar.
These species are sometimes found in the Vardar river upstream of Skopje. The
other species are present in Class IlIl water except for some which are more resistant
and can possibly be found in Class IV water.
The survey found out that a large number of fish species are absent downstream of
Skopje where a predominance of Crassius crassius, Gobio gobio and Barbus
meridionalis has been found. These species are known for their resistance to
increased eutrophication and pollution.
Interview with fishermen has indicated that very few fish are present for up to 20 kms
downstream of Skopje.
3.5.5  Archaeology and Cultural Heritage
Skopje has many recorded and well-documented cultural heritage sites. During
detailed design efforts will be made to avoid the location of works on or close to such
sites. However given the well spread locations of the proposed construction sites,
which are almost all in built up areas it is unlikely that anything significant will be
encountered. The conditions of contract for construction normally include clauses
which put the responsibility on the Contractor to advise the authorities if any
archaeological artefacts is discovered during excavation.
Water Utility Improvement Project. Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                     3-5                              Issue 1.0/ February 2000



3.6    Environmental impacts of the projects
All the projects are undertaken to improve the quality and security of water supply and
the collection and disposal of wastewater. Consequently, the impact especially the
social environment should be on the whole positive. Minor negative impacts are
expected especially during construction. Table 3.4 provides a summary of the
impacts expected and the mitigation measures proposed with more detailed
assessment of the impact described in later sections.
Table 3.4    Environmental impacts in Skopje
Components             Positive Impacts    Negative Impacts    Mitigation Measures
Water supply         Reduced risk of water   Minor constructon  Environmental
rehabilitation      bome disease through  inconveniences such    management plan to
improved water supply.  as dust, noise, traffic    minimise impacts.
etc.
Sewerage rehabilitation  Improved groundwater  Minor construction  Environmental
quality and additional 5  inconveniences such    management plan to
kms of Class213 Vardar as dust, noise, traffic    minimise impacts.
river               etc.
Production wells    Reduced use of       Unproven but         Phased development of
potable water for   unexpected reduced    the proposed wells with
irrigation          flow in the Vardar river  water level monitoring
3.6.1  Surfacewater
The proposed sewerage rehabilitation projects are of two types, improvements in the
collection system and the large collectors.
Local collection system
The local sewerage improvement projects will have positive impacts on local
surfacewater. The risk of overflowing sewers and the associated public health
hazards will be reduced because the introduction of a gravity system will eliminate the
need for pumping stations, which frequently break down.
Collectors
The main collectors, which will run parallel to the Vardar River will improve the water
quality in the river over this specific length, which runs through a high density
residential area. The improvement in the water quality in the river will encourage
more recreational use of the river.
The length of the Vardar, which will be Class II or better will be increased by about 5
km thus increasing the length of river available for recreational fishing.
An additional benefit of the construction of the collectors is the effect it will have on
the current method for disposal of industrial wastewater. The construction of a
collector in the immediate vicinity of the industrial area means that the industries must
connect to the collector as required by Skopje Municipal statute (No 355 of 30t March
1969 and amended on 14th June 1976). The statutes also regulate the level of
pollutant that can be discharged into the sewers by the industry. Because there is no
Water UUlity Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD. J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                    3-6                             Issue 1.0 I February 2000



standards for disposal of wastewater into rivers industries are not obliged to provide
pretreatment. On completion of the collectors industries will be obliged to connect to
it and they then come under the jurisdiction of the Skopje municipal statutes.
Although a wastewater treatment plant is not immediately proposed for financial
reasons it is the only solution to improving the water quality in this river downstream
of Skopje so as to achieve the legal requirement on a more continuous basis. Even a
small amount of treatment will improve the present situation.
The construction of the collectors is conditional on the construction of the wastewater
treatment plant.
3.6.2 Groundwater
Improvements in the sewerage systems will improve the groundwater quality in the
superficial aquifer through reduction in the sewage overflows and the number of
malfunctioning septic tanks.
Groundwater below Skopje consists of two main aquifers, the high yield semi-
confined aquifer of superficial sand and gravel with clay horizons and the low yield
aquifer in underlying marls. The superficial aquifer is in direct continuity with the
Vardar, being within the alluvial plain of the river.
The proposed boreholes for abstraction of ground water for inigation purposes will be
in the superficial aquifer, which also behaves like an underground river. Abstraction
of water from the aquifer will reduce the underground water flow but since the
intended use of the water is for irrigation, the water will be immediately reintroduced
into the aquifer thus restoring the hydrological balance. Although it is not expected
that flow in the Vardar river will be affected by the proposed abstraction the risk of
reduced flow is nevertheless still possible without appropriate monitoring and control
on the use of the water abstracted.
3.6.3 Land use and soil
The installation of pipes and pumping stations will require the occupation of very little
land and the risk of soil contamination resulting from burst sewer pipes or leaking
pump station is minimal given adequate design and construction.
3.6.4 Air
Air quality, especially in the summer will improve over an additional 5km length of the
Vardar River after the relocation of the present outfalls. Stagnant pools and low flows
in the river can create conditions, which can render septic the discharged sewage.
3.6.5 Biological and Ecological
The construction of the collectors will improve water quality over 5 km of the Vardar
River and thus increase the length of river available to a larger and more diverse
ecology.
3.6.6 Social Environment
The improved sewerage system will improve living conditions for the population living
in the areas concemed.
Water Uility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                3-7                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



The improved water quality over a longer length of river will discourage the population
from using the river as a garbage disposal site.
The improvement of the water supply will improve the social conditions of inhabitants
of high rise buildings who have to wait until very late in the night to obtain a water
supply.
The proposed extension of water supply to villages on the outskirts of Skopje will
reduce the risk of diseases amongst the villagers.
3.6.7  Construction impact
The impact of all construction work on the environment is not negligible. Typical ones
for pipelaying projects are dust, noise, lorry traffic, congestion, open trenches, all of
which will occur in populated areas. Construction -activities can also have negative
impacts on the ecology of the areas where the new works are to be implanted.
3.7   Mitigation Measures
The completed pipelines and pumping stations are usually not visually intrusive
objects and thus normally require minimal mitigation measures if proper attention is
taken during the design phase.  The potential problems are protected sites,
contaminated land and homes requiring resettlement of the inhabitants, all of which
require mitigation measures. Without detailed design and identification of the specific
problems the mitigation measures cannot be specified.
Construction mitigation measures will also be required to minimise inconveniences to
the public. Typical measures which can be taken are described hereafter. Noisy
construction activities can be limited to agreed daylight hours. Dust emission can be
avoided by providing appropriate covers. Lorry traffic and congestion can be limited
by an efficient traffic management plan. Dangerous activities in public areas need to
be controlled to reduce the risk to the public. Trenches need to be provided with
railings. Dangerous equipment must be shielded to prevent contact.
During detailed design when the location of the works are to be finalised a walk over
survey over the site is to be organised to identify if protection is required for the
existing ecology.  Typical protection includes fencing, provision of passage for
animals, provision of altemative habitats or relocation of plants and animals.
As stated above there is a small risk that overabstraction of groundwater, which can
reduce the flow in the Vardar river. In order to mitigate against this risk it is important
that during the operation of the wells, water level in aquifer and flows in the Vardar
river are monitored to identify any relationship between the two. Moreover it is
recommended that a phased approach be adopted in the construction of the wells. A
maximum abstraction of 150 I/s is proposed per phase and a period of 2 years during
which monitoring can be carried out is allowed between phases.
An overall environmental management plan to mitigate against the minor impacts
indicated above has been provided in Chapter 6.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                3-8                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



4   BITOLA SUB-PROJECT
4.1   Background
The sub-project comprises the following components:
* Water supply zoning reconstruction and storage
* Water supply pipeline rehabilitation
The project comprises the rehabilitation of the water distribution system following a
zoning study. The main purpose of the project is to reduce the leakage losses and to
improve the condition of the distribution system.
Rehabilitation will possibly comprise the construction of additional reservoirs and
reconstruction of pipelines.
Figure 3 shows the distribution system in Bitola.
4.2   Environmental baseline
4.2.1  Climate
The climate in Bitola is a modified Mediterranean, semi-arid one with warm and
relatively dry summers and cold winters. Average air temperature varies between
about -1 and 22 degrees celsius with minimum and maximum of-11 and 39 degrees.
Annual average precipitation is 577 mm and relative humidity is between 58% in the
summer and 81% during winter.
4.2.2  Water environment
Bitola is situated on the Dragor River, a tributary of the Cma River whose catchment
covers about 20 % of the country. The Dragor river upstream of Bitola has a Class IlIl
classification and downstream it is Class IV. The river is not used for any purpose and
downstream of Bitola it is used as an open sewer especially in the summer when
dilution flows are minimal.
4.2.3  Public Health
There is no reported problem or concem over public health in Bitola. The water supply
is fairly reliable and large areas are covered by sewerage. Public awareness over the
water quality in the river especially downstream is high and therefore contact with river
water is avoided.
4.2.4 Flora and Fauna
There are no fish reported in the Dragor river although there were in the past.
Water Utlity Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                4-1                          Issue 1.0/ February 2000



Reservoir Dvci Bair~~~~~fci~n
h=66 ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ =
WATER~ ~ ~ ~~~~N
irDoblezik~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~<.
M g



4.2.5  Archaeology and Cultural Heritage
Bitola has at least one recorded and well documented cultural heritage site to the south
of the city. During detailed design efforts will be made to avoid the location of works on
or close to such sites. However given the well spread locations of the proposed
construction sites, which are almost all in built up areas it is unlikely that anything
significant will be encountered. The conditions of contract for construction normally
include clauses, which put the responsibility on the Contractor to advise the authorities
if any archaeological artefacts is discovered during excavation.
4.3    Environmental impacts of the projects
All the projects are undertaken to improve the quality and security of water supply.
Consequently, the impact especially the social environment should be on the whole
positive. Minor negative impacts are expected especially during construction. Table
4.1 provides a summary of the impacts expected and the mitigation measures
proposed with more detailed assessment of the impact described in later sections.
Table 4.1     Environmental impacts in Bitola
Components             Positive Impacts    Negative Impacts    Mitigation Measures
Zoning reconstruction/  Reduction in leakage    Minor constructon  Environmental
storage             and demand on water  inconveniences such    management plan to
resources           as dust, noise, traffic    minimise impacts.
etc.
Water supply        Reduced leakage and   Minor construction  Environmental
rehabilitation      reduced risk of water   inconveniences such    management plan to
bome disease through   as dust, noise, traffic    minimise impacts.
improved water supply.  etc.
4.3.1  Surfacewater
The proposed project will have limited impact on the surfacewater. Improvement in the
water distribution system will however decrease the amount of water lost to
surfacewater and this may in the long run slightly increase the concentration of
wastewater in the river through decreased flow in the river.
4.3.2  Groundwater
No change in the groundwater condition is expected.
4.3.3  Land use and soil
The installation of pipes and service reservoirs will require the occupation of very little
land.
4.3.4  Air
No change in air quality is expected except during the construction period when dust
may be a problem.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                   4-2                             Issue 1.0/ February 2000



4.3.5  Biological and Ecological
The ecology of the Dragor River is not expected to change because of the project.
4.3.6  Social Environment
The availability of water will improve as a result of the rehabilitation of the water
distribution system.
4.3.7  Construction impact
The impact of all construction work on the environment is not negligible. Typical ones
for pipelaying projects are dust, noise, lorry traffic, congestion, open trenches, all of
which will occur in populated areas. Construction activities can also have negative
impacts on the ecology of the areas where the new works are to be implanted.
4.4   Mitigation Measures
The completed pipelines and reservoirs are usually not visually intrusive objects and
thus normally require minimal mitigation measures if proper attention is taken during
the design phase. The potential problems are protected sites, contaminated land and
homes requiring resettlement of the inhabitants, all of which require mitigation
measures. Without detailed design and identification of the specific problems the
mitigation measures cannot be specified.
Construction mitigation measures will also be required to minimise inconveniences to
the public. Typical measures which can be taken are described hereafter. Noisy
construction activities can be limited to agreed daylight hours. Dust emission can be
avoided by providing appropriate covers. Lorry traffic and congestion can be limited by
an efficent traffic management plan. Dangerous activities in public areas need to be
controlled to reduce the risk to the public. Trenches need to be provided with railings.
Dangerous equipment must be shielded to prevent contact.
During detailed design when the location of the works are to be finalised a walk over
survey over the site is to be organised to identify if protection is required for the existing
ecology.  Typical protection includes fencing, provision of passage for animals,
provision of altemative habitats or relocation of plants and animals.
An overall environmental management plan to mitigate the minor impacts of the project
is provided in Chapter 6.
Water Uvi:ity Improvement Project Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                4-3                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



5   PRILEP SUB-PROJECT
5.1   Background
The project comprises the rehabilitation of the sewerage system by eliminating illegal
sewerage connections to the surfacewater drainage system. The connections are
connected either directly to existing watercourses or to the surfacewater drainage
system instead of the existing sewerage system. An estimated 5,000 such illegal
connections exist in Prilep.
Rehabilitation will possibly comprise the construction of sewer pipelines.
5.2   Environmental baseline
5.2.1  Climate
The climate in Prilep is a modified Mediterranean, semi-arid one with warm and
relatively dry summers and cold winters. Average air temperature varies between
about 1 and 24 degrees celsius with minimum and maximum of -9 and 35 degrees.
Annual average precipitation is 476 mm and relative humidity is between 56% in the
summer and 85% during winter.
5.2.2 Water environment
Prilep is situated on the Orevoecka River, a tributary of the Blato River, itself a tributary
of the Crna River whose catchment covers about 20 % of the country. The flow in the
Orevoecka River is very small as a result of the construction of a dam upstream which
collects practically all the flow. The flow in the river therefore depends on the flow of
other tributaries downstream of the dam, many of which are actually running through
the town.
There are many illegal wastewater connections into these streams which eventually
discharge into the Orevoecka River and thereby pollutes the low flows in the river.
There is no measurement of water quality or flows in the river but measurements of
water quality and flows from the surfacewater drainage system indicate that the
surfacewater has the same quality as the sewage in the wastewater collector. This
indicates a problem with inter connection between the sewerage system and the
surfacewater drainage system and vice versa.
The small flows in the Orevoecka river varying between 5 and 20 I/s do not help to
dilute the wastewater reaching the surfacewater. The wastewater volume reaching the
river through the surfacewater drainage system is estimated to be 60 I/s which is three
times as much as the natural flow in the river. The BOD concentration measured in the
surface water in 1998 was about 60 mg/I of BOD5 or a total BOD5 load of about 300
kg/day.
The town has a sewerage system and a collector, which presently discharges at an
ouffall about 3 km downstream of Prilep on the Orevoecka river. The flow in the
collector was estimated to be 250 I/s.
Water Utility Improvement Project. Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc               5-1                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



(0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iaV)AWN
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W3g
HSOaG CN"AX
J*1 -~
Arm
yo  ~       I/                     ~~ 
-4r1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



5.2.3 Public Health
There is no reported problem or concem over public health in Prilep. The water supply
is fairly reliable and large areas are provided with sewerage. Public awareness over
-   the water quality in the river is high and therefore contact with river water is avoided.
5.2.4  Flora and Fauna
There are no fish reported in the Orevoecka river.
5.2.5  Archaeology and Cultural Heritage
Prilep has at least one recorded and well-documented cultural heritage site in the
mountain to the west of the city. During detailed design efforts will be made to avoid the
location of works on or close to such sites. However given the well spread locations of
the proposed construction sites, which are almost all in built up areas it is unlikely that
anything significant will be encountered. The conditions of contract for construction
normally include clauses, which put the responsibility on the Contractor to advise the
authorities if any archaeological artefacts is discovered during excavation.
5.3    Environmental impacts of the projects
All the projects are undertaken to improve the sewerage system. Consequently, the
impact especially on the social environment should be on the whole positive. Minor
negative impacts are expected especially during construction. Table 5.1 provides a
summary of the impacts expected and the mitigation measures proposed with more
detailed assessment of the impact described in later sections.
Table 5.1    Environmental impacts in Prilep
Components            Positive Impacts   Negative Impacts    Mitigation Measures
Sewerage rehabilitation  Improved water quality  Minor construction  Environmental
in Orevoecka river in   inconveniences such    management plan to
Prnlep.            as dust, noise, traffic   minimise impacts.
etc.
5.3.1  Surfacewater
The proposed project will have positive impact on the surfacewater in the Orevoecka
River and its tributaries within the town as wastewater is directed downstream of the
town via the existing wastewater collector. The wastewater collector has been
designed for the flow from the whole town and therefore has sufficient capacity.
The impact on the Orevoecka river will include a reduction from the present flow of
about 80 I/s, which includes about 60 I/s of wastewater, to about 20 I/s. The smaller
flow will be cleaner as a result of removal of the wastewater component.
No change to water quality in the river is expected 3 km downstream of the town
because the same amount of wastewater will reach the river through the river and the
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                 5-2                           Issue 1.0 I February 2000



collector. The amount carried by each will however be different after completion of the
project.
Figure 4 shows the wastewater arrangement of Prilep.
5.3.2 Groundwater
No change in the groundwater condition is expected since the relevant flows are small
and the river presently flows in concrete channel within the town.
5.3.3 Land use and soil
The installation of pipes and reservoirs will require the occupation of very little land.
5.3.4 Air
The air quality will be improved along the Orevoecka River where it flows through the
town as a result of improvement in the water quality.
5.3.5 Biological and Ecological
The ecology of the Orevoecka River is not expected to change because of the project
because it is canalised within the town.
5.3.6 Social Environment
The image of Prilep will be improved with improvement in the water quality in the
Orevoecka River as it flows through the town because the negative water quality of its
river is well known throughout Macedonia. This negative image will be improved as a
result of the project.
5.3.7 Construction impact
The impact of all construction work on the environment is not negligible. Typical ones
for pipelaying projects are dust, noise, lorry traffic, congestion, open trenches, all of
which will occur in populated areas. Construction activities can also have negative
impacts on the ecology of the areas where the new works are to be implanted.
5.4   Mitigation Measures
The completed pipelines are usually not visually intrusive objects and thus normally
require minimal mitigation measures if proper attention is taken during the design
phase. The potential problems are protected sites, contaminated land and homes
requiring resettlement of the inhabitants, all of which require mitigation measures.
Without detailed design and identification of the specific problems the mitigation
measures cannot be specified.
Construction mitigation measures will also be required to minimise inconveniences to
the public. Typical measures which can be taken are described hereafter. Noisy
construction activities can be limited to agreed daylight hours. Dust emission can be
avoided by providing appropriate covers. Lorry traffic and congestion can be limited by
an efficent traffic management plan. Dangerous activities in public areas need to be
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc               5-3                          Issue 1.0/ February 2000



controlled to reduce the risk to the public. Trenches need to be provided with_railings.
Dangerous equipment must be shielded to prevent contact.
During detailed design when the location of the works are to be finalised a walk over
survey over the site is to be organised to identify if protection is required for the existing
ecology.  Typical protection includes fencing, provision of passage for animals,
provision of alternative habitats or relocation of plants and animals.
An overall environmental management plan to mitigate the minor impacts of the project
is provided in Chapter 6.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                    5-4                              Issue 1.0 I February 2000



6  ENVIRONMENTAL MANGEMENT PLAN
6.1    Background
This Chapter considers the environmental management and monitoring that is required
to ensure that the construction of wells, pipelines and collectors at Skopje, Bitola and
Prilep follow the best environmental practices and that the mitigation measures
considered in Chapter 3,4 and 5 are effective. An Environmental Management Plan is
provided below.
The purpose of the Environmental Management Plan is to identify feasible, cost
effective measures that may be used to potentially reduce significant negative
environmental impacts. This reduction may reduce the impact to below the nuisance
threshold or to more acceptable levels. It should be noted that individual mitigation
measures, implemented a stage at a time, may only be partially effective. On
occasion, fragmented mitigation measures can bring about other negative impacts to
the local environment.
6.2    Construction Phase Plan
It is recommended that the contractors undertaking the works are required to produce a
more detailed Environmental Management Plan as further details of the construction
operations become clearer. To ensure that the Environmental Management Plan is
adequately implemented a suitably qualified scientist or engineer should be employed
on a part-time basis to monitor the implementation of the plan once it has been
approved. An outline environmental management plan is provided on Table 6.1.
Table 6.1     Construction Phase Environmental Management Plan
Subjectim    Potential negative          Management plan-.,          Rs;nsibility
edia          impact       -          .-
Air        Dust generation      .   Employ    dust   suppression  Contractor
measures, such as wetung and dust supervised by
enclosures                     Project
.   Enclose contractors areas with  management Unit
embankments
.   Accept  residual  impact  after
implementatorrof above measures
Dust generation -    .  Use traffic routng measures to  Contractor
vehicular access         avoid built up areas and bottle  supervised by
necks                          Project
a  Routne control and maintenance of management Unit
all   equipment   used    for
transportaton
.  Employ dust suppression measures
a  Accept  residual  impact  after
implementaton of above measures
Vehicle    emissions .   Use traffic routng arrangements  Contractor
(mobile)             a   Routne control and maintenance of supervised by
vehicles                       Project
.   Accept  residual  impact  after management Unit
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                    6-1                              Issue 1.0 / February 2000



Subject/m     Potential negative            Management plan                Responsibility
edia            impact
implementabton of above measures
Vehicle  and   engine  *   Run only when required            Contractor
emissions (static)     *   Routine  control and maintenance  supervised by
of equipment                     Project
management Unit
Water       Release of suspended  *   Restrict surface runoff from site  Contractor
solids into watercourses  *   Construct a surface water runoff  supervised by
lagoon                           Project
*   Discharge water from site following  management Unit
settlement
*   Accept  residual  impact  after
implementation of above measures
Spillage of fuel from   *  All above ground storage tanks and  Contractor
construction sites         drums  to  be  stored  on  low  supervised by
permeability bases able to retain  Project
110% of the stored volume        management Unit
*   Reclaim land as soon as possible
after development
*  Accept  residual  impact  after
implementation of above measures
Noise       Noise generation      *   Construct noise barriers between  Contractor
new works and residential areas  supervised by
during construction              Project
*   Restrict work to daylight hours   management Unit
*   Place noisy operations as far away
as is practicable from residential
areas
*   Use equipment with appropriate
silencers
*   Only run equipment when required
*   Accept  residual  impact  after
implementation of above measures
Waste       Failure  to   recycle  *   minimise  the  waste  generated  Contractor
construction waste and     during    construction,    reuse  supervised by-
to store waste in the      construction    waste     where  Project
correct manner             practicable                       management Unit
*   use appropriate methods for the
storage of waste materials
*   dispose of waste to an appropriate
site
Traffic     Congestion capacity    *   designate traffic routes for all heavy  Contractor
impacts                                vehicles                          supervised by
*   accept  residual  impact  after  Project
implementation of above measures   management Unit
Safety      Public safety          *   provide pedestrian access         Contractor
.   provide safety barriers and signs  supervised by
Project
management Unit
Culture     Damage             to  *   Avoid known sites                 Contractor
and         archaeological remains  *   cease construction on discovery of supervised by
heritage    and artefacts              objects of cultural value and notify  Project
relevant authorities             management Unit
Visual      Visual impact          .   screen site area wherever possible   Contractor
*   accept  residual  impact  after  supervised by
implementation of above measures   Project
management Unit
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                        6-2                                Issue 1.0/ February 2000



6.3    Operation Phase Environmental Management Plan
The operation of the of the water pipes and sewers will not generate any nuisance
except when through unforeseen failure of the construction. There is therefore no need
for an environmental management plant for such extreme circumstances.
However the operation of the irrigation system using groundwater can create hazards,
which need to be understood and mitigation plans have to be installed. The potential
hazards and the proposed management plan are presented on Table 6.2.
Table 6.2      Operational Phase Environmental Management Plan
Subject/    Potential negative        -Management pln"                 Responsibility
media          impact
Groundwa  Overabstraction       -   monitoring and management control  Utility/
ter    for                           of the abstraction process       Hydrometeorological
Irrigation                      *   phasing of the construction of the  Institute
wells to allow time for monitoring of
impact
Unsuitable for plant *  monitor water quality with relation to  Parks department
life                     plant requirement
Contact with public  *  avoid use of water by spraying    Parks department
*  Use water for irrigation during the
______ ____   _ ______ ______ _____ n ig ht_                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Noise      Noise generation      *  use  appropriate  equipment  to  Designer
from                                 minimise ambient noise levels
pumps                           .   maintain screen between plant and
iocal residents
6.4    Monitoring Requirements
Table 6.3 gives the proposed monitoring requirements during the construction phase
and Table 6.4 gives the proposed monitoring during the operational phase.
Table 6.3      Proposed monitoring during construction
Monitoring requirement            Monitoring frequency               Responsibility
Noise (new activity)                   Daily for one month         Contractor
Noise (ongoing activity)                    Weekly                 Contractor
Dust (new activity)                    Daily for one month         Contractor
Dust (ongoing activity)                     Weekly                 Contractor
The abstraction of groundwater will be the subject of a water abstraction permit, which
will define the volume of water, which is allowed to be pumped from each well. The use
of groundwater for irrigation is only expected between April and October and therefore
the monitoring requirements will only be limited to the period of use. Table 6.4 lists the
proposed monitoring programme for the operation of the groundwater system.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                       6-3                               Issue 1.0! February 2000



Table 6.4    Proposed monitoring during operation of groundwater scheme
Monitoring requirement         Monitoring frequency           Responsibility
Abstraction quantity                   Monthly               Utility
Water quality                       Every two months        Parks department
6.5    Cost of Environmental Management Plan
The cost of the proposed environmental management plan and monitoring for this
project will be borne mostly by the Contractor who has to make the necessary provision
as part of his contract. The cost related to the provision of such mitigation plan is
normally included in the cost estimates for works with minor environmental impacts
such as pipelaying.
The cost for monitoring and supervision is also relatively small for such project and can
be considered to be included as part of the project management unit responsibility.
Water Utility Improvement Project,-Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc                  6-4                            Issue 1.0/ February 2000



7  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1   Background
This Environmental Assessment was undertaken as part of the Water Utility
Improvement Project in Skopje, Bitola and Prilep and considered the potential impacts
on the environment of the rehabilitation works proposed. The works are required to
improve the condition of the water supply and of the sewerage systems in the cities.
7.2   Beneficial impacts
Overall the impacts of the proposed project are beneficial. The proposed rehabilitation
of the sewerage in Skopje will improve the condition of the Vardar River over 5
kilometres. This improved condition will bring great amenity benefits for the inhabitants
of the high density residential area through which the river flows. The other benefits of
the sewerage projects are improvement in sanitary conditions, which occur when
pumps break down in the project areas.
The water supply will improve the social condition for the people living in high rise
apartments and also provide water to some villages on the outskirts of Skopje.
7.3   Adverse impacts
Assuming that the management and monitoring measures in the Environmental
Management Plan are implemented the adverse impacts of the project are limited and
are primarily related to the impacts associated with the construction including noise,
dust and increased traffic loads on local roads.
Although no adverse effect is expected the effect of groundwater abstraction on the
Vardar river must be monitored to safeguard the flows in the river.
7.4   Recommendations
The recommendations are as follows:
* Implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and mitigation measures
by the contractors responsible for the construction of the works
* Monitoring of groundwater levels in Skopje to establish more clearly the effect of
using groundwater for irrigation on the flows in the Vardar River.
Water Utility Improvement Project, Macedonia
GIBB LTD, J98241a
Mace. Env.Assess.doc               7-1                         Issue 1.0/ February 2000



