Docwmnt Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL tSE ONLY
C/k' /&6'>Sy 2Ž4
Repen No. P-4118-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 3.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
TAZAMA PIPELINE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
August 30, 1985
This dunemm  I  a  t    dide  i m sd may be wed by redplfl euY IN the pedfnwume Of
hs    iSis. lea numb  ma            uduwwu be died  witkes WeId Bek  hdrmdem



C W ERRE
Currency Unit                     Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$ 1.00               l           K   2.34
K   1.00               -           US$ 0.43
The Zambian Kwacha is officially valued in terms of a basket of
currencies, for which the US dollar is the intervention currency.
Since July 1983, the Government has followed a flexible exchange rate
policy, making periodic adjustments in the official value of the
Kwacha. The rates expressed above are as of March 31, 1985. The
following are average annual exchange rates for recent years.
1980     US$ 1.00                  K 0.7885
1981     US$ 1.00      =           K 0.8684
1982     US$ 1.00                  K 0.9282
1983     US$ 1.00      -           K 1.2506
1984     US$ 1.00      =           K 1.7943
UEICGTS AND NKASURES
I kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (km2)  -  0.386 sq miles
1 metric ton (tonne)  -  1,000 kg - 2,204.6 pounds
ABBREVIATIORS
DOE   -  Department of Energy (of the Ministry of Power,
Transport and Comunications)
EIB   -  European Investment Bank
MPTC  - Ministry of Power, Transport and Communications
NEC   -  National Energy Council
NOSCO -  Ndola Oil Storage Company
TOE   -  Tons of Oil Equivalent
ZCCM  -  Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO -  Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZIMCO -  Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Ltd.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TAZAMA PIPELINE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Zambia.
Beneficlary:                Tazama Pipelines Limited.
Amount:                     SDR 3.0 million (US$3.1 million).
Terms:                      Standard.
Onlending:                  For 20 years, including 5 years grace, at an
interest rate of 9 percent; the beneficiary
bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Purpose:                    The project would carry out a magnetic (or
intelligence pig) survey of the 1,700 km Tazama
Pipeline between Dar es Salaam port and Ndola in
Zambia to determine the extent of damage caused
by corrosion. Progressive development of
serious leaks threatens the pipeline's continued
operation as the sole means of transporting
feedstock to Zambia's INDENI Refinery. Apart
from the survey, the project would: (a) examine
various aspects of the pipeline's operations and
management; (b) recommend initial measures to
meet urgent operational and maintenance needs;
and (c) carry out an engineering investigation
and prepare an implementation program and cost
estimates for the pipeline's rehabilitation.
Benefits and Risks:         The project's systematic approach to preparing
the pipeline's rehabilitation and the proposals
for putting the pipeline company on a sounder
operational and management footing will help
safeguard the vital supply of feedstock to
Zambia's only refinery at a time when continued
supply of petroleum imports is essential to the
eccnomy. If the pipeline ceased to operate, the
economy would be burdened with an additional
annual freight cost of US$24 million. The
continued viability of the pipeline operation is
also important in terms of employment of a
significant nuiber of Zambians and Tanzanians,
duties and service charges paid at the port of
Dar es Salaam, and the potential supply of the
final refined products to Malawi, Zaire and
Zimbabwe. A risk that the cleaning and
surveying of the pipeline will aggravate the
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their ofrical duties Its contents may not otherwie be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
leakage and cause environmental damav. will be
mitigated by the close monitoring o: each stage
of the pipeline being worked on. There is also
a risk that the project will be delayed by a
delay in the delivery of oil, which is required
to propel the various survey devices through the
pipeline. Purchase and delivery schedules will
be agreed with the Government before the credit
becomes effective.
Estimated Cost
US$ Thousand
Local   Foreign    Total
1. Pipeline and Tank Cleaning                        50        80       130
2.  Pipeline Modifications for Intelligence
Pig Survey                                     50        90       140
3.  Intelligence Pig Survey                          60     1,883     1,943
4. Comprehensive Study of Pipeline, Pump Station,
Tank Farm, Telecommunications and
Operations; Training Needs                      -       905       905
5.  Tank Drainage                                    50        90       140
6.  Technical Assistance                             50       170       220
7. Spare Parts and Equipment                          -       100       100
uaue Cost                                     260     3,318     3,578
B.  Physical Contingencies                           26       322       348
9. Price Contingencies                               14       160       174
Total Project Cost                            300     3,800     4,100
(Taxes and Duties Exempt)
US$ Thousand
Financing Plan                                    Local    Foregn    Total
IDA                       -      3,100      3,100
EIB                       -         370       370
Tazana Pipelines Ltd.    300        330       630
Total              300     3,800      4,100
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year       86       87     88
Annual           2,000   1,050      50
Cumulative       2,000   3,050  3,100
Economic Rate of Return:         Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:                None.
IBRD No. 16844.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A TAZAMA PIPELINE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 3.0 million (approximately US$3.1
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance the Tazama Pipeline
Rehabilitation Engineering Project. Proceeds would be onlent to Tazama
Pipelines Limited. Cofinancing of 500,000 ECUs (about US$370,000) is
expected from the European Investment Bank.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. This part is
based on that report's findings and on subsequent information received from
the Zambian authorities. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports range between 30 and 40 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 35 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Copper mining provides over 90 percent of foreign exchange
earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Much economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia is currently in an acute stage of economic and financial
crisis. Production has declined steadily for three consecutive years in
most sectors due to reductions in import volumes. External trade has moved
to a cash basis, because of the refusal of banks to open new letters of
credit without reducing existing ones. Due in part to continued declines
in the copper price, scheduled external debt service obligations amount to
over 70 percent of export earnings. Debt rescheduling is required for the
third year in a row, but the prospects for rescheduling are problematical
in view of large arrears that have accumulated to members of the Paris Club
and the IMF. Disbursements of external loans have fallen sharply due to
reductions in capital expenditure by both the Government and many public
enterprises. As a result, a multi-faceted foreign exchange constraint now
grips the country and threatens to override the positive effects of the
Government's economic recovery program initiated in 1983. To avoid this, a
major coordinated effort of debt restructuring and renewed financial flows
is required for the Government's program to succeed.



- 2 -
5.        Zambia's economic and financial problems were initiated by a
sharp decline in the copper price in 1975. Zambia's terms of trade have
deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1984, were 70 percent below the
average for the early 1970s. In 1982, and again in 1984, copper prices
reached their lowest level in real terms during the post-World War II era.
Real GDP has been in a general downward trend since 1975, declining on an
average by about 1.5 percent per year. With population growing by 3.1
percent per annum, real GDP per capita is 25 percent lower than in 1974.
GNP per capita was estimated at US$580 in 1983, using the World Bank Atlas
methodology, but is now much lower as a result of major devaluations of the
Kwacha in 1983 and 1984.
6.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82.  Nevertheless, the volume of imp-rts declined steadily and
is now 50 percent below its level in 1980 and 75 percent below its level in
1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe
underutilization of capacity and, especially in' the mining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation expenditure that has contributed
directly to a declining trend in copper production and exports. In 1984,
copper exports fell to their lowest level (525,000 tonnes) since Zambia's
independence. The current level of imports is now inadequate to sustain
copper production and to provide a critical minimum for the rest of the
economy to function efficiently. The large current account deficits have
also led directly to Zambia's high level of external indebtedness. At the
end of 1984, Zambia's total external liabilities stood at US$4.4 billion,
including drawings from the IMF (US$740 million) and US$500 million in
overdue commercial payments. By comparison, exports of goods and services
amounted to somewhat over US$900 million.
7.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976. A
new mineral export tax was introduced in 1983, however, which now
contributes about 10 percent of Government's revenue. Deficit financing
absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and contributed to a sharp
rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per annum during 1976-78 and
12 percent per annum in 1979-82. Price increases have accelerated in 1983
and 1984 to about 20 percent per annum, reflecting the decontrol of prices
in December 1982 and the devaluations of the Kwacha during the past two
years.
8.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, other factors over which the Government has little or no control
include transport difficulties in neighboring countries on which Zambia is
dependent for the movement of foreign trade, and severe droughts which for
three consecutive years have necessitated substantial food imports. In
addition, copper mining in Zambia is past its peak, and for technical
reasons, such as sinking deeper shafts and tapping less rich ore bodies,
production costs are rising as ore reserves are depleted.



-3-
9.        Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties. The main
deficiencies in economic policies were that: (i) pricing and subsidy
policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of the agricultural
producer, depressing the latter's income and incentive to produce for the
market; also, controlled industrial prices led to low profitability in the
manufacturing sector and a decrease in resources available for
reinvestment; (ii) tax incentives and low interest rates led to a pattern
of capital-intensive investment; (iii) exchange rate and tariff policies
encouraged the use of artificially cheap imported raw materials and other
inputs and discouraged the use of local materials and the development of
non-mineral exports. As a result, a highly capital and import-intensive
productive structure was created that proved to be very vulnerable to
prolonged declines in the availability of foreign exchange.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
10.       Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In the long
run, therefore, the copper industry cannot be counted on to provide the
domestic and external resources required for development. In the absence
of policies and programs to develop new sources of income, employment and
foreign exchange, Zambia may expect a drastic fall in living standards and
social well-being by the turn of the century. However, Zambia has the
potential to develop alternative sources of income, employment, and
exports. The greatest potential is in agriculture, where there are
opportunities for import substitution (cotton, oilseeds, livestock, grains,
forestry products, and fish) and for exports (betvf, cotton, coffee,
tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start is made with
agricultural development, possibilities will be created for agro-based
industries.
11.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that financial balance be restored in the economy.
As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a major
role to play. Without a rehabilitated copper industry, the Government's
diversification effort would fail for lack of financial resources. For
this reason, in 1984, the Bank approved an Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification Project which aims to increase the efficiency of the mining
industry and make it competitive again by international standards. This
project was accompanied by an agreement on changes that would be needed in
macro-economic and sector policies in order to restructure and diversify
the rest of the economy and create the conditions for developing new
sources of income, employment and exports.
12.       The Government, with Bank and Fund assistance, has developed a
wide-ranging package of policies and measures to bring about better
economic management and a policy environment conducive to healthy economic
growth and diversification. The Government's economic restructuring
policies may be summarized as follows:



- 4 -
- Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which prices are
responsive to market forces;
- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy;
- Using tariffs and interest rate policies to reverse past
trends of import dependence and capital intensity;
- Liberalizing administrative restrictions on foreign trade and
the licensing of production, in order to improve the
allocation of resources and to encourage investment in
productive activities;
- Reducing the Government's deficit and recourse to domestic
bank borrowing by reducing expenditure on personnel costs,
subsidies and other non-development related activities;
- Improving planning and budgetary procedures to shift resources
to productive uses and economic investments;
- Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops. The National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMBOARD), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;
- St-rengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIUCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil.
13.       In the past two years, the Government has made significant
progress in translating the above policies into tangible action. Stand-by
arrangements were agreed with the IMF in 1983 and 1984. Under these
programs, the Kwacha was linked to a basket of currencies and was
depreciated in a gradual manner such that it is now more than 60 percent
lower (in foreign exchange terms) than at the end of 1982. Because the
Government has been successful in holding wage increases to considerably
less than rises in the cost of living, it has maintained the benefits of
devaluation in real terms, which has improved the competitiveness of
exports. Debt rescheduling with members of the Paris Club, commercial
banks and non-OECD governments was also obtained. Further measures taken
under the IMF program included increases in interest rates and tough
budgetary measures (including reductions in subsidies and a cap on new
government employment) aimed at reducing the Government's domestic
borrowing. Under the programs, the current account deficit was reduced to



8.5 percent of GDP in each year and domestic bank borrowing by the
Government to 3-4 percent of GDP in each year.
14.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. -But other measures with significant long-term impact have
been introduced as well. In December 1982, in order to allow market forces
to play a more important role in the economy, the Government abolished the
control of all wholesale and retail prices except for three essential
commodities: wheat flour, maize flour and candles. Since then, prices for
a wide range of commodities have increased, thereby helping to restrain
domestic demand, while increasing the profitability of firms. Most
recently, the price of wheat flour and bread was also decontrolled. Over
the last three years, producer prices for most agricultural crops have been
increased considerably in real terms. Together with concessionary tax
rates for agricultural income and freer marketing arrangements for the
livestock sector, these measures have already led to increases in the area
under cultivation and in the marketed production of various crops. The
Government has also improved the incentives affecting foreign trade by
introducing a foreign exchange retention scheme and concessional tax rates
for non-traditional exports, and by imposing a minimum tariff on many
non-dutiable imports which should reduce the high rates of effective
protection afforded to import-intensive industries.
15.       As part of its economic recovery plans, the Government presented
a three-year expenditure program to the Consultative Group for Zambia in
May 1984. The Consultative Group strongly endorsed the Government's new
policy initiatives, as well as its expenditure program which emphasizes
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, increased capacity utilization
and selected investments to diversify the economy, especially in
agriculture. As a result, the Group indicated that its members are
prepared to increase their assistance to Zambia, although these indications
have yet to materialize in new loan commitments. A follow-up meeting of
the Group was held in June 1985, at which the Government's reform program
was again endorsed. Increased financial assistance was indicated and, in
addition, various members indicated that in view of Zambia's serious
financial position, they are converting their assistance programs to a
grant basis. Several members announced their willingness to make
assistance available in the form of quickly disbursing loans and grants.
16.       The Government's efforts over the past two years represent a
major reformulation of economic policies and incentives. This progress is
currently in danger of being set back, however, due to insufficient foreign
exchange to maintain production (and exports) and to honor external debt
obligations. On one hand, the Government wishes to improve the supply of
essential consumer goods and thus show some benefits from the considerable
sacrifices its policies have required of the population. In particular, a
rapid increase in the consumer price of maize (resulting from higher
producer prices, drought induced imports and lower subsidies) has
heightened the political sensitivity of further reforms that result in
higher prices for other goods and services. On the other hand, the
Government must allocate considerable foreign exchange to debt service that
cannot be rescheduled.



17.       In facing this dilemma, the Government has opted for adopting a
more liberal foreign exchange system in recognition of the need for greater
efficiency in the allocation of these resources. This should also help
mobilize additional foreign exchange for the official market from sources
both within and outside Zambia, namely, from unrecorded exports and from
official development agencies that would be willing to support such a
significant policy change with quickly disbursing assistance. This
strategy risks uprooting a hard-won political consensus that the economic
reform program must continue, however. Against the hope that additional
foreign exchange resources will materialize, the Government's decision to
adopt a more liberal system is being taken with the clear expectation that
higher prices will inevitably follow further depreciation of the Kwacha.
It is therefore essential that additional foreign exchange resources be
made available for the new system to work and for an increase in production
to occur, in order to expand the supply of basic consumer goods and
minimize upward pressure on prices. Along with the new system, the
Government intends to introduce a wide range of supporting measures,
including decontrol of interest rates, conversion of the import licensing
system to one of import registration, and further measures to reduce
government expenditure and borrowing from the banking system.
Creditworthiness
18.       Scheduled service on public and publicly guaranteed (PPG)
external debt will remain over US$400 million per annum for the next three
years, or about 40 percent of export earnings at today's copper prices. Of
this amount, about US$65 million per annum is due to the World Bank Group,
including the IFC. (The Bank currently holds US$430 million, or 15 percent
of Zambia's US$2.8 billion PPG debt disbursed and outstanding). In
addition, about US$200 million per annum in payments is due to the IMF and
another US$50-7O million per annum on Zambia's pipeline of commercial
payment arrears and short-term borrowings. In total, then, scheduled debt
service will amount to over US$700 million per annum for the next three
years, and it will thus be necessary for the Government to continue its
financial stabilization policies in cooperation with the IMF and to seek
dDbt relief through further rescheduling.  Even with maximum debt relief,
however, Zambia will continue to owe over US$400 million per annum in debt
service that cannot be rescheduled. The Government should, therefore,
avoid as much as possible borrowing on commercial terms, and additional
borrowing should carry sufficiently long grace periods and maturities.
19.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthine',
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government is well underway in
adjusting its economic policies and is fully committed to take further
steps towards economic reform and the restructuring of Zambia's productive
industries. Assuming successful economic policies, careful financial
management and adequate external assistance, Zambia could achieve a
reasonable measure of export growth and diversification in 10 to 12 years
and reduce its overall debt service ratio to 30 percent of exports.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 14 credits to
Zambia, totalling about US$780 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and six
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture, forestry and fisheries, six
loans and six credits have been for industrial forest plantations and wood
processing, livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee
production and smallholder dairy and fisheries development. Agricultural
projects in the Eastern and Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder
farmers and an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is providing inputs to
the sector in support of policy reforms. Other loans have assisted
Zambia's urban development program, copper mining and, through the
Development Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and industrial
sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the Government improve
its planning and project preparation.
21.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$85 million in eleven projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments
were in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, two in
textiles and one each in the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production,
copper production, tourism and in food and food processing.
22.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been
experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by
the Bank loan. Most seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for the lagging
implem'entation of projects are ineffective project management and
inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
Third Highway Project.
23.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the period FY77-81, the disburse-
ment rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over 25 percent
per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or the 21.5
percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,



- 8 -
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7
percent) and for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To alleviate the
problem, provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA makes advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and when the funds should be made
available are being prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their
need to allow implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan
for these expenditures. As of December 1983, IBRD loans disbursed and
outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's total medium and long-term
debt disbursed and outstanding.
24.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase econouiic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources to
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, such as the recently-approved Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project and the upcoming Industrial Reorientation Project,
will focus on improving sector policies in agriculture and industry, which
are, respectively, the sectors with the best potential for production and
export growth and for employment creation. The Group's strategy also gives
priority to reducing consumption of imported petroleum, substituting
indigenous energy resources and raising the efficiency of energy and
transportation services. Emphasis will be given to rehabilitation and
maintenance, rather than expansion, of infrastructure and Bank Group
assistance is expected to include a significant proportion of quick-
disbursing resources. Support in addressing the longer-term development
constraints, e.g., improving economic management, education, population,
health, etc., is also part of the strategy. Policy and institutional
reform programs in each of the sectors, as well as on the macroeconomic
level, are being agreed with the Government.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
(a) Background
25.       During the past 20 years, Zambia has moved from complete
dependence on energy imports to a high degree of self-sufficiency.
The country is a net exporter of hydro power, but is still totally
dependent on imports for its petroleum needs. Of total energy consumption
in 1983/84 of 4.6 million tons of oil equivalent, 45 percent was from
woodfuel, 33 percent as electricity and 13 percent in the form of petroleum



- 9 -
products. The mining sector has remained the dominant user of commercial
energy, accounting for 60 percent of consumption, followed by industry and
commerce (24 percent) and transportation (9 percent).
26.       With depressed economic conditions, domestic power consumption
will at best grow slowly over the next three to five years and exports are
expected to fall during the second half of the decade as Zimbabwe's
consumption is also fairly static while it is increasing its thermal
generation capacity. Zambia's substantial power capacity surplus will
therefore increase over this period, postponing the need for investment in
generating plant to meet domestic demand beyond 1995. The resulting low
marginal cost of power over the next 10 years has important implications
for the utilization of electricity, including its use as household energy,
the needs of which are largely met by chari-oal. As the price of charcoal
is rising rapidly with deforestation in the main consuming areas, and as
the cost of kerosene is high, substitution of electricity for existing
household fuels is an increasingly attractive option. Meanwhile, the
domestic charcoal industry is growing in response to Zambia's rapid and
relatively high urbanization.
27.       Coal production at Maamba, Zambia's only colliery, has fallen
progressively in recent years to about 480,000 tonnes in 1983/84, which is
under 50 percent of the colliery's design capacity. The fall is due mainly
to inadequate replacement, repair and maintenance of plant, aggravated by
shortage of foreign exchange, difficult mining conditions and problems of
management and technical supervision. To cover the resulting shortfall,
about 58,000 tonnes of coal were imported from Zimbabwe in 1983/84.
28.       In the sphere of energy substitution, progress has been made in
bhe substitution of electric for diesel power in the copper mines, and
annual savings of US$8.0 million a year are expected to be made by Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM). Significant savings are also technically
possible by substituting coal for heavy fuel oil in most copper smelting
operations. Outside the mines, progress in energy conservation has been
limited. A proposed industrial conservation audit of the 20 largest
industrial consumers of petroleum fuels has been delayed because of a lack
of technical knowledge and equipment.
29.       Energy Sector Institutions.  All energy sector executing agencies
are either wholly or partly owned and controlled by the ZDMCO group, the
parastatal industrial and commercial holding company. Among ZIMCO's
subsidiaries are the Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO), Indeni
PetroleLm Refinery, and Ndola Oil Storage Company (NOSCO).  ZIMCO also
holds a majority share holding in the Tazama Pioelines Ltd and most of the
large energy user entities, including ZCCM, Chilanga Cement, Zambia
Railways and the United Bus Company of Zambia. All aspects of energy
sector activities from procurement to consumption have a direct impact on
and are influenced by ZIMCO subsidiaries. Although sparse, much of the
country's expertise in the technical areas of energy pricing, procurement
and investment analysis is also assembled in this group. To make better
use of such skills, ZIMCO should consider rationalizing its corporate
structure in the area of petroleum procurement, transportation, refining
and wholesaling. The existing structure of four separate companies in the



- 10 -
petroleum subsector inhibits efficient use of scarce manpower and
apparently has few major operational advantages. Strengthening of ZIMCO's
energy advisory unit is also recommended to increase its impact on the
energy policy and decisions of major companies in the ZIMCO group of its
contribution to the development and implementation of a national strategy.
30.       Recognizing the need for institutionalizing energy sector policy
formulation and coordination, the Government established in 1980 the
National Energy Council (NEC), whose 12 members represent energy suppliers,
the private sector, academia and some branches of Government. The NEC's
role is to advise the Minister of Power, Transport and Communications
(MPTC) on key issues of energy policy and planning; but its status as An
advisory body and its lack of executing authority have limited its impact
on energy sector coordination and decisions. The long delay 'n establish-
ing the secretariat and the fact that senior officials of the MPTC do not
serve on the council has also handicapped its performance. Subsequently,
HPTC established a Department of Energy (DOE). A director was appointed in
1984 and has a professional staff of eleven, most of whom were appointed in
1984. The Department's principbl activities are: (a) carrying out an
energy consumption survey, organized jointly with the NEC; (b) establishing
a computerized database; (c) upgrading the energy balance and developing an
energy planning model; (d) research and development of possible new and
renewable energy applications, particularly in the rural sector; and (e)
planning an industrial energy conservation audit. The DOE does not as yet
have a comprehensive work program covering the full range of major energy
sector issues (investment strategy, pricing, etc), and its effec- tiveness
suffers because several major issues, such as coal, petroleum exploration
and woodfuel policy, are outside the Ministry's direct sphere of
responsibility. Both DOE and NEC are in the process of developing their
respective roles and institutional capabilities. However, in view of the
energy sector's pressing problems and scarce skills, the existing
institutional structure is not suited to produce a clear and comprehensive
strategy for the sector and make best use cf the scarce analytical talent
that is available. The Bank's Energy Assessment (para. 43) recommended
that these two bodies be merged into a single one, responsible for advising
on the formulation and execution of energy policy across the whole sector.
The issue would be addressed by a proposed UNDP/World Bank technical
assistance operation to improve energy planning.
(b) The Petroleum and Refining Sector
31.       On a per capita basis, Zambia is not a petroleum intensive
economy by international standards. Per capita petroleum consumption of
around 133 kilograms (kg) is lower than most middle-income countries with
about the same per capita income levels. However, because Zambia is
landlocked, its capacity to meet petroleum products demand is entirely
dependant on the Dar es Salaam-Ndola pipeline and on the INDENI refinery.
The technical limitations of the imbalanced refinery, which was built in
1973, constrain its ability to adjust product output to the changing
patterns of energy demand in Zambia. The petroleum bill has been making
increasing claims on declining export earnings even while the country is
reducing petroleum fuels consumption. The US$134 million cost of petroleum



- 11 -
imports in 1983/84 represented 17 percent of export earnings. This heavy
burden has contributed to preventing Zambia from rehabilitating the
pipeline and modifying the refinery. To reduce consumption levels, the
Government introduced in 1976 rationing and pricing measures, which,
coupled with a decline in economic activity, resulted in an average annual
fall of 4.4 percent in the overall consumption level of petroleum
products. However, the potential for further reductions through rationing
and pricing measures without seriously affecting vital services are
limited. Thus the Government has initiated programs to reduce petroleum
demand by substitution with domestically-produced energy supplies.
Notably, a -rogram has begun to increase supplies of locally-produced
hydro-electricity and coal to replace fuel and diesel oil used in the
mining sector (para. 28). As a result mainly of the reduced demand for
fuel oil, there is a relatively greater need for middle petroleum
distillates. These are projected to increase from 54 percent of petroleum
fuels demand in 1980/81 to 69 percent by 1990. This demand can be met only
through changes in the output pattern of INDENI Refinery (para. 35).
32.       Pricing.  Refined product prices, both ex-refinery and at the
consumer level, are set by the Government. While the pricing policy
ensures that petroleum products on average reflect the full economic cost
of imports to the country, in practice the prices of premium and regular
gasoline have been kept disproportionately high in order to subsidize fuel
oil as a concession to the mines, which were required to switch from coal
to fuel oil when the refinery at Ndola was commissioned in 1973. Wholesale
gasoline is priced 40-50 percent above import parity equivalent, diesel oil
2 percent above, kerosene at parity and wholesale fuel oil 23 percent
below. Taxes on gasoline are roughly 50 percent, on diesel oil 60 percent
and on kerosene 20 percent. Fuel oil is not taxed. The impact of these
price differentials and cross-subsidies will be reviewed as part of the
Government-Bank dialogue on the formulation of an energy sector strategy
(para. 43).
33.       Indigenous Potential.  Until the early 1980's Zambia had never
been explored for hydrocarbons.  In 1982, with the Bank assistance, the
Government began a regional exploration program over several prospective
areas. An aeromagnetic survey was followed in 1984 by several gravity pro-
files, complemented by a petroleum geologic study. Two major prospective
areas have been identified: (a) the Luangwa and buano valleys, which are
classic rift basins in eastern Zambia; and (b) the Western Zambia Basin,
covering about 160,000 square miles. Forty-four private oil companies
attended a promotion meeting in June 1985 and some of them are expected to
submit by November 1985 proposals for the next stage of exploration.
34.       Petroleum Supply and Refining.  Crude oil and refined products
are bought from major international companies by ZIMCO, on behalf of the
MPTC, which arranges shipping from the Middle East to Dar es Salaam.
Funding is by means of a revolving fund, with a credit ceiling of US$100
million, established for oil purchase by a consortium of banks led by Bank
of America. The crude oil is transported from Dar es Salaam to the INDENI
Refinery in Ndola by Tazama Pipelines Limited (para. 37). Refining is done
by the INDENI Petroleum Refining Company Limited (INDENI Refinery). The



- 12 -
refinery supplies the petroleum products needs of Zambia except those
imported direct by the marketing companies. Storage of refined products is
handled by the NOSCO, a wholly owned subsidiary of ZIMCO. The subsidiary
is also responsible for the sale of the refined products on behalf of ZIMCO
to oil marketing companies at Government-controlled prices. Distribution
and retail sales are carried by local affiliates of five international oil
marketing companies - Shell/BP, AGIP, Mobil, CALTEX and Total.
35.       INDENI Refinery.  The INDENI Petroleum Refinery Company Limited
at Ndola is a subsidiary of ZIMCO and is owned equally by ZIMCO and AGIP.
The refinery is well managed, the organizational structure is suitable for
the present plant, and monitoring of operations is good. Equipment is kept
in excellent condition and operating costs are within acceptable limits.
The refinery has a capacity of 25,000 barrels per stream day (bpsd) or
about 1.1 million metric tons per annum. On completion in 1973, the
refinery was expected to meet the petroleum fuel needs of Zambia, as well
as a substantial part of the requirements of neighboring Zimbabwe, Malawi
and eastern Zaire, at least during the initial years of its operation when
its design capacity exceeded the demands of the Zambia market. Relatively
high initial throughput levels were disrupted after 1977 through increases
in petroleum prices and foreign exchange shortages. These encouraged
conservation efforts in Zambia as well as the neighboring countries,
resulting in a decrease in consumption of the petroleum products. At the
same time the refinery's production pattern fell out of balance with the
increasing need for middle distillates. The refinery began its operation
by processing Iranian light crude oil with up to 25 percent spike (i.e. 75
percent light crude oil, 17 percent diesel oil and 8 percent naphtha),
actual quantities of spiking components being varied to meet market
demand. But because the design production pattern was not suited to meet
changing market demand, the refinery progressively changed to a feedstock
consisting primarily of Arabian light crude oil with a spike above 40
percent. At present, the refinery produces an excess of heavy fuel oil in
trying to satisfy domestic demand for lighter products, such as diesel,
kerosene and gasolene. Also, potential for petroleum fuels export from
Zambia to the neighboring countries can be exploited only if the refinery
can produce the required product slate. A yield pattern consistent with
the changing demand profile at an affordable investment cost is currently
being considered in the context of an ongoing Bank-financed engineering
project.
(c) Tazama Pipeline
36.       After Independence in 1965, the Zambian Government decided to
provide the country with a more reliable and less costly oil supply. As a
result, the Tazama Pipeline was constructed and placed in service in 1968
as a refined product facility from Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, to Ndola,
Zambia. The 1,700 km line consisted of 8-5/8 ins. outside diameter steel
linepipe and five pump stations. In 1972/73 the system was converted to a
crude oil (spiked with distillate) carrier to provide feedstock for the
INDENI Refinery (para. 35). To increase capacity, a 12-3/4 in. outside
diameter linepipe was laid parallel to the original pipeline in several
nh1ill stretches, amounting to a total of 769 kilometers, as well as two



- 13 -
additional pump stations and an additional engine/pump unit at each of the
original stations. The original construction and the expansion was carried
out by Italian consultants with Italian banks providing the finance. To
accommodate the conversion to crude oil, a tank farm consisting of six
floating roof storage tanks, a tanker mooring/offloading facility and a
submarine pipeline were installed at Dar es Salaam Port. These marine
facilities are capable of handling 100,000 - 120,000 deadweight ton tankers
discharging at a maximum rate of 6,000 metric tons per hour. The converted
pipeline system capacity is rated at 160 cubic meters per hour, or about
1,120 barrels per hour. The current annual volume of oil transported by
the pipeline is 600,000 tons, valued at US$140 million.
37.       The pipeline company, Tazama Pipelines Limited, is a joint
venture registered in Zambia and owned 67 percent by the Zambia Government
and 33 percent by the Tanzania Government. The Zambian majority
shareholding in the pipeline company is held by ZIMCO (para. 29). There
are four Zambian members of the Board, the most senior of whom is the
executive director of ZIMCO, and three Tanzanians, including the chairman
of the Tanzanian Petroleum Development Corporation. The company has a
senior management staff of eight and about 500 other employees, including 5
expatriates and 280 Tanzanians. The company's optimum staff requirements
are currently being reviewed (para. 51).
38.       Financial Position.  The pipeline company had net assets at the
end of December 1984 of US$18.5 million, of which US$15.7 million were
fixed assets. Share capital of the two governments totaled US$3.8 million,
supported by reserves of US$9.9 million. Outstanding debt of US$4.6
million included the US$2.9 balance of a long-term loan from Finanziario
S.P.P., Italy. Debt service during 1984/85 amounted to about US$1.0
million, and the ratio of debt to equity was about 0.3:1. Throughput
tariffs charged to ZIMCO have been progressively increased, from about US$7
per metric ton in 1979 to about US$10.3 in 1984, to satisfy the 1967
Convention between Zambia and Tanzania concerning the pipeline's operation,
in which both governments are committed to the principle of tariffs being
adjusted to meet the pipeline company's operating and maintenance costs and
debt obligations. But because throughput was less than forecast in 1984/85
as a result of a reduction in oil imports, the company experienced an
operating loss of about US$1.2 million. The pipeline company agreed that
it will annually review financial forecasts, and act promptly to rectify
any threatened shortfall in the coverage of operational and maintenance
costs and debt in accordance with the tariff provisions of the existing
Convention between the Zambian and Tanzanian governments (draft Project
Agreement, Section 4.02).
39.       The Convention governing the pipeline's operation provides for
the governments to make available for the use of the pipeline company
required public land or easements, and assist the company in the compulsory
purchase of any private land. Rights of access to the pipeline and its
installations by staff of the pipeline company is assured under the
Convention. The company does not have to pay rent or other charges for
pipeline company's use of public land in the two countries. As a standing
arrangement, the Tanzanian Government has undertaken not to levy tax or
duty in Tanzania on petroleum products or crude oil carried by the
pipeline, except for port dues and wharfage charges.



- 14 -
40.       Pipeline Leakage.  At the time the Bank appraised and approved
its loan in 1982 for investigating modification of the INDENI Refinery, the
pipeline was operating without any significant technical problem, and
leakage that had been detected was minimal and not considered unusual.
However, a progressive increase in the incidence of the leakage was noted
over a period of about 18 months, particularly in the initial 250 km
sections of the pipeline from the port at Dar es Salaam. This was the
result of corrosion caused by the acidic soil in the region, and, to a
lesser extent, by the entry of sea-water into the system. The cost of oil
lost through leakage during the year 1983/84 is roughly estimated at about
$2.0 million, but this estimate is not reliable because of the lack of
sophisticated measuring facilities. The loss has been borne by ZIMCO and
is not covered by insurance, because offshore insurers consider the
operation a high risk, requiring high premiums.  During the past few
months, consultants advising Tazama have reported a marked increase in the
incidence of leakage evidenced by a fall in hydrostatic pressure in
sections of the pipeline, significant staining of the soil where leakages
occur, and advanced state of deterioration of pipeline sections that have
been replaced. Consequently, fears have grown that the operation of the
pipeline may be threatened if nothing is done.
41.       Over the years, the pipeline company's maintenance operations
have included measures to improve cathodic protection of the pipeline,
reduction of seawater entering the system, and improved identification of
the more seriously damaged sections of the pipeline. There has been an ad
hoc series of measures to repair these sections. More recently, the
company's efforts have been focused on repairing the frequently occurring
leakages to prevent interruption of feedstock flow to the refinery. This
has detracted from the company's ability to assess systematically the
extent of damage and conduct a comprehensive maintenance program. The
company's problems have been compounded by a lack of foreign exchange to
buy spare parts. The proposed project will provide for spare parts to
carry out the most urgent repairs, pending the eventual full
rehabilitation.
(d) Bank Role and Strategy in Sector
42.       The Bank's lending for energy in Zambia has focussed in the past
on the development of hydropower generation, including expansion of the
transmission network. More recently, the Bank has helped the Government
prepare for the rehabilitation of the coal industry and modification of the
country's only refinery. Bank assistance has especially helped to
strengthen the management and planning of key institutions in the energy
sector, notably ZESCO; ZIKCO (para. 29); the Central Africa Power
Corporation (CAPC), which the Bank helped to establish to encourage joint
energy development between Zambia and Zimbabwe; the coal industry; the
energy planning function of MPTC; and the oil exploration capacity of the
Department of Geological Survey. Technical assistance is currently
proposed under the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program to recommend institutional restructuring or other improvements to
enhance energy planning and coordination. The Bank's first loan (Loan
145-RN; June 1956) was made prior to Zambia's independence, to assist with



- 15 -
construction of the Kariba Dan and the South Bank power station. The
second loan (Loan 392-RN; October 1964), the first to independent Zambia,
helped finance a 330 kv high-tension transmission line, while the third
(Loan 701-ZA; July 1970) was for the Kariba North Power Station. A fourth
operation (Loan 919-ZA; July 1973) helped construct the Kafue Stage II
hydroelectric project and was followed by a supplementary loan for Kariba
North in 1974. In May 1982, an engineering project was approved (Loan
2151-ZA; June 1982) to study the technical and economic feasibility of
modifying the INDENI Refinery (para. 35). The Bank also assisted a project
(Loan 2152-ZA; June 1982) for carrying out detailed aeromagnetic and
gravity surveys to provide data to attract exploration of hydrocarbons by
foreign oil companies (para. 33); and helped finance an engineering project
(Credit 1333-ZA; March 1983) to prepare the rehabilitation of Maamba
Colliery.
43.       The joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment reportl/ published
in 1983, identified Zambia's energy sector major issues to be: (a)
imbalanced configuration of the Indeni Refinery; (b) inadequate knowledge
of the potential for substituting domestic for imported energy; (c) exces-
sive distribution losses and inadequate maintenance of the power system;
(d) inefficiencies in the production and transport of coal; (e) localized
shortages in supply of woodfuels and inadequate afforestation programs;
(f) inappropriate pricing of energy products; and (g) short-comings in
energy-planning and policy implementation. A Bank mission visited Zambia
in December 1984 to review the status of the assessment recommendations,
and the Bank's dialogue with the Government is continuing. The Bank's
findings are compatible with "Economic Crusade, 1985," the Government's
short-term economic program announced in late 1984, which sets out the
country's economic priorities as follows: reduce inessential imports to
conserve foreign exchange; eschew investment in new projects and focus on
essential rehabilitation of existing plant and infrastructure; and seek new
export opportunities. These priorities mirror closely the major thrust of
the Energy Assessment Report, which recommended reducing energy imports,
particularly of petroleum; improving the reliability of the existing power
system; rehabilitating the Maamba colliery; and rationalizing energy prices
to promote efficient consumption. With the level of energy demand
unchanged, foreign exchange even more scarce and the growing backlog of
essential maintenance and rehabilitation, those recommendations become even
more urgent.
44.       During the period since the Assessment, one of the main positive
developments has been completion of pre-investment evaluations relating to
several of these priority investment recommendations. These include
feasibility analyses of alternative modifications to the INDENI Refinery
that would adjust its produce mix better to match demand and thereby reduce
the cost of petroleum imports; and rehabilitation needs of the Maamba
colliery to raise its output capacity sufficient to meet potential domestic
and export demand for coal. Modest progress has been made in energy
substitution, particularly of diesel and fuel oil in the copper mines; in
rationalization of energy prices; and in strengthening
1 Zambia: Issues and Options in Energy Sector, Report No. 4110-ZA,
January 1983.



- 16 -
energy sector institutions. In several areas, further steps are needed to
implement the Assessment recommendations. The household energy supply
system needs to be strengthened through a combination of afforestation
programs, better charcoal production, marketing and consumption surveys and
review of substitution possibilities, including electric'ty and coal
briquettes. Potential rural electrification investments need to be
carefully evaluated and implemented only if economically justified.
Institutional capability in the energy sector needs to be strengthened and
responsibility for the coordination of energy policy centralized.
45.       Following completion of the pre-investment studies, there is now
a need for: (i) a carefully structured and selective energy sector
investment program, consistent with current economic priorities and avail-
able resources; and (ii) technical assistance to ensure that the investment
program is complemented by appropriate policy action and that the remaining
essential pre-investment work is completed. Zambia faces a difficult task
in planning energy sector investment over the remainder of this decade.
Due to the urgent need to reduce oil imports, the backlog of essential
maintenance and rehabilitation work on the energy supply system, and the
rising cost of woodfuel, there are a large number of energy investment
options. The likely scarcity of external resources, relative to potential
energy sector investment projects, neces-sitates careful prioritization of
the alternative investments outlined above.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       After growing evidence during 1983-84 of progressive deteciora-
tion of the pipeline, the company engaged engineering consultants to
undertake a preliminary survey of the pipeline and its associated
installations and propose a detailed engineering and financial plan for
a systematic survey. The company accepted that a magnetic survey of the
entire pipeline should be carried out to provide a comprehensive and
accurate assessment of corrosion damage. Terms of reference and bid
documents for such a survey have been drawn up with the £ssistance of the
consultants and the Bank. Appraisal of the engineering project for
implementing the survey was carried out in March/April 1985. The
Government of Tanzania has informed the Bank that it fully endorses the
project's objectives. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on August
7 and 8, 1985. The Zambia delegation was led by Mr. F. M. Siame, Senior
Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Annex III contains Supplementary
Project Data.
Project Objectives
47.       The project would carry out a magnetic (intelligence pig) survey
of all 1,700 km of the Tazama Pipeline, from Dar es Salaam port to the
terminal point at the INDENI Refinery in Ndola, Zambia, to determine the
extent of corrosion damage. Based on the survey's findings, and an exam-
ination of all associated facilities, a report would be prepared on the



- 17 -
pipeline system's status and future management, financial, operational and
maintenance needs. Also, an engineering investigation would be carried
out, and cost estimates and an implementation program prepared, for
rehabilitation of the pipeline, for which the Bank is prepared to consider
providing assistance.
Project Description
48.       The project would provide for:
(a) Cleaning of the Tazama Pipeline and associated tankage.
(b) Pipeline modifications required for Intelligence Pig Survey.
(c) Intelligence Pig Survey.
(d) Comprehensive study of the pipeline, pump station, tank farm
and telecommunications facilities; systems review; study of
training needs.
(e) Seawater drainage from tanks.
(f) Technical assistance for project management.
(g) Spare parts for urgent repairs.
Detailed Features
49.       The magnetic survey would identify elements of the pipeline
system which may require modification or rehabilitation if the pipeline is
to constitute an efficient and reliable means of transporting crude oil to
Zambia. The entire 1,700 km pipeline, which has been laid about a metre
underground, would be made ready for the survey by use of a cleaning pig.
It would be followed by an intelligence pig for inspecting and recording
the condition of the pipe-wall through use of a magnetic field which would
locate internal and external pipeline damage. Priority would be given to
the most critical 250 km of the pipeline near its terminal in Dar es
Salaam, where soil acidity and internal corrosion have resulted in the most
severe leakage. Urgent interim repairs would be defined and scheduled for
any severely damaged sections that threaten widespread rupture. As both
the cleaning and intelligence pigs need to be carried through the pipeline
by the flow of crude oil, the Government will, as a condition of credit
effectiveness, submit to the Association an acceptable program for the
supply and flow pattern of the crude oil (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)).
50.       Investigations would also be carried out into all other aspects
of the pipelinets operation, including a survey of soil chemistry, the
effect of different pumping rates and operating pressures on the pipewall,
and the possibility of providing replacement to relieve badly-damaged
sections. Three of the six tanks at the Dhr es Salaam Tank Farm would be
modified to enable accumulated sea water to be drained off. These
modifications would include the replacement of drains and piping and



- 18 -
improvements to the Tank Farm communications system. In addition, an
examination would be carried out of the pipeline company's operational and
maintenance procedures and its technical information system.
51.       Based on the comprehensive findings of the survey, a report would
be prepared recommending: (a) a rehabilitation program for the pipeline;
(b) immediate actions required to improve operations, including surveillan-
ce, maintenance, telecomunications and data-processing; and (c) a training
program for the pipeline company. These recommendations would be comple-
mented by a study to be conducted by ZIMCO on the pipeline company's
management structure, and an ongoing study by the pipeline company to
identify staffing economies. The project includes Technical Assistance for
project management (para. 52).
Costs and Financing; Onlending
52.       The project's total costs, including contingencies, are estimated
at US$4.1 million, of which US$3.8 million are foreign. The project is
exempt from taxes and duties. Costs of equipment and materials account for
10 percent of base costs and technical and consultancy work for 90
percent. Although the pipeline company's recurrent costs for maintenance
will be increased as a result of the consultants' recommendations, overall
recurrent costs to the economy are likely to be reduced as oil losses are
eliminated. The base costs of consultancies and equipment are calculated
on the basis of April 1985 prices. Average physical contingencies have
been estimated at 10 percent. All price contingencies are included at 5
percent for FY86 and FY87, reflecting the likelihood that nearly all
contracts will be signed in the first few months of project implementation.
53.       The US$3.8 million foreign exchange required by the project would
be provided by the IDA credit of US$3.1 million (which would finance 82
percent of foreign costs, or 76 percent of total project costs), a
concessional loan of US$370000 by the European Investment Bank and
US$330,000 by Tazama Pipelines Ltd. The IDA credit would finance
consultancy and technical services and some spare parts for the most urgent
repairs. The EIB loan would finance mainly equipment, materials and spare
parts (e.g. purchase of cleaning pig, pipeline sections, pumping and
telecommunications equipment) and some civil works. The pipeline company
will finance local costs of US$300,000. The Government would onlend the
IDA credit at 9 percent for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, to the
pipeline company, which would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
twenty-year term is consistent with that of government lending to
parastatals. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government of Zambia and Tazama Pipelines Ltd is a condition of credit
effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01 (a)). The
pipeline company has received the endorsement of the Tanzanian Government,
as shareholder, for the company to undertake the loan obligation.
Project Execution and Monitoring
54.       Overall responsibility for the project would be vested in a
supervisory committee, already established, consisting of the senior
management of ZIMCO and the pipeline company, which would approve planning



- 19 -
and proposals for prograns, scheduling, commitments, contracts and
expenditures; and ensure, and participate in, monitoring of progress and
performance reporting (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
Execution would be carried out by a project unit recently established and
consisting of existing technical and financial staff of the pipeline
company. The unit will be headed by a project-financed Engineering
Manager, who would serve also as executive secretary to the supervisory
committee. The pipeline company and the Association will, by February 28,
1986, agree on prompt implementation of the most urgently required
maintenance measures identified by the consultants atd phased
implementation of the recommendations of the management study being
conducted by ZIMCO, particularly in regard to coat-reduction measures
identified (para. 51) (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.07). The
consultants' final report and the detailed proposals for rehabilitation
would be completed by June 30, 1986. These proposals would be discussed by
the pipeline company and the Association, and a program for phased
implementation drawn up by September 30, 1986, based upon agreed
recommendations (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
Procurement
55.       Procurement and hire of consultants for IDA-financed components
would be according to Bank guidelines. The -intelligence pig survey'
(US$1.9 million) is regarded as a technical service and would be procured
through invitations to tender to the several companies specializing in such
a service. Consulting services for the general study and engineering work
(US$605,000) would be provided by a suitably-qualified international firm
already selected. The firm is currently retained by the pipeline company
to carry out the initial assessment of the pipeline investigations.
Because of the urgency of the situation, and the special knowledge of the
pipeline and the terrain that the consultants have developed in recent
months, the Association accepts continuation of the consultancy for the
proposed project. The consultants' terms of reference have been prepared
with the assistance of the Bank and are acceptable to the Association. The
Bank has also approved the consultants' contract. Procurement of spare
parts financed by IDA (e.g., pipes, pumps, chemicals, valves, cleaning pigs
or pig parts, and telecommunications parts) will be by international
shopping, but allowing for purchase of spares from original suppliers as
appropriate. Goods and services to be financed by EIB would be procured
according to EIB's preferences, and would involve procurement mainly in
member countries of the European Economic Community. Altogether, the
project would finance 120 staff months of consultancy services and 24
man-months of technical assistance (for the engineering manager position).
Disbursements
56.       Disbursement of the IDA credit of US$3.1 million equivalent would
be for 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical services (US$2.4
million), and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultant services
for project management (US$170,000), and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for urgent spare parts and equipment (US$100,000). There
would be an unallocated amount of US$430,000 to be allocated as appropriate
to other categories during project implementation. Disbursements would be



- 20 -
made against full documentation for all other expenditures, except for
reimbursements under contract for goods and services with a contract value
below US$20,000 whlich will be made solely on the basis of statements of
expenditures. Supporting documents for these withdrawal applications would
be retained in one central location available for inspection by IDA.
To expedite disbursements and facilitate project implementation, a Special
Account would be established in a commercial bank in Zambia with an initial
deposit of SDR 100,000 equivalent. The Special Account would be used
exclusively for the financing of the above-mentioned items. It is expected
that the credit would be fully disbursed by March 31, 1988 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 3).
Audit and Accounts
57.       Project funds would be administered by Tazama Pipelines Ltd.,
subject to the regular monitoring and approval of commitments, contracts
and expenditures by the supervisory comaittee (para. 54). The project's
financial records would be maintained by existing accounting staff under
the Finance Manager and reviewed by the supervisory committee. A special
project accounting system will be introduced, to the satisfaction of the
Association, in which details of authorizations, levels of authority and
provisions and limitations will be spelt out. Project accounts would be
audited by the pipeline company's existing auditors, an international firm
of repute, whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the
Association; and the company's audited accounts, together with the
auditor's report, submitted to the Bank not later than six months following
the end of the fiscal year, including those for expenditures made under the
Special Account and in conjunction with statements of expenditure (draft
Project Agreement, Section 4.01).
Benefits
58.      The Tazama Pipeline is vital to the Zambian economy as the sole
means of importing crude oil feedstock for the country's refinery at Ndola,
which receives about 600,000 metric tons a year, valued at US$140 million.
The probability is increasing of a major breakdown, which would require
Zambia to move crude oil and petroleum products by rail or road-tankers at
an additional cost of about US$40 per ton - representing an extra burden
to the Zambian economy of at least US$24.0 million a year, apart from the
question of logistics and reliability of supply. The proposed engineering
project's comprehensive investigation of the pipeline's condition and
operational status will prepare the way for rehabilitation of the entire
system in an orderly and organized manner that would ensure comprehensive
rehabilitation at controlled cost, as well as recommend measures to
strengthen management, expand training, ensure adequate technical
surveillance and maintenance, and ensure that tariffs are adequate to
protect the pipeline company's operational and financial viability. With
eventual adjustment of the refinery's output pattern and rehabilitation of
the pipeline, there would be potential for some export of refined products
to Malawi, Zaire and Zimbabwe. IDA is justified in supporting the project
because of the dependence of Zambia's economy on a secure fuel supply.
IDA's support is enhanced by the Bank Group's extensive energy lending and
sector work.



- 21 -
Risks
59.       A risk that the cleaning and surveying of the pipeline will
aggravate the leakage and cause environmental damage will be mitigated by
the close monitoring of each stage of the pipeline being worked on. The
project could also be affected by delays in the purchase and delivery of
crude oil, which is necessary for jcopelling the cleaning and surveying
pigs. For this reason, the Government will, as a condition of credit
effec- tiveness, submit an acceptable program of purchase and delivery of
crude oil (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Tazama Pipelines Limited and the Recommendation of the
Comittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
6i.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are: (a) execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of Zambia and Tazama
Pipelines Ltd; and (b) submission to the Association of an acceptable
program for the supply and flow pattern of crude oil.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executixe Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
August 30, 1985



-22-                                          ANNEX I
Page- I of 6
URSAZU                - LUCia. imias  WA US               TA
twiLl  t,oLh. SCM              RUSSAm  INC=S           "Now( INCUS
196ULL     1117A    vs-3U5L1.     AFRCA S. or PMARA   v. A1W&  MID LAST
au cmougo. m)
TOTAL6                            72*6        75LO        733L6
A GRCULTURAL                      397.4       399.       401.6                 .
W   MR  Cm   CM)                       ..          ..        M.               106                      1134.9
CKIIOCRMU  OF OIL IWMTV*LVIT)       ..        30Lo0      64.0               381.3                    623.9
POPUATIOU,D3IAK CTnoSas)   3141.0            4159.O     *259. .0
.URAN POLATUO  CZ OF tOTAL)         17.2        30.6       46.8                2.0                     49.0
rOPUano nawcriDs
POPUATiN IN  rU& 2000 (HILL)                             11.0
STATLUIR PULAtION (PML)                                 33.0
POP1LATiXN RaSCl                                         Li0
vonunzm oman
ra sq. M.                         4.2         S.5        6.3               6S.1                     37.8
Fa SQ.  . AGRI. LAID              7.9        10.4       15.               126.8                    470.1
0-14 US                         42.         46.1       46.5        *       5.6                       .3
15-I4 uS                         52.5        51.3       49.3               51.3          N3.0
S5 JIID M2=                        .4         L          L5                 LI7                      3.3
MPOPUATIO CRWSM SATE CZ)
TOTAL                             2.5         2.         3.1                LS                       2.4
aRIS                              9.1         .6S        6.2                5.1                      4.4
Cmi sin am  CR TCOMS)              49.6        49.0       50.0               47.0                     40.0
CUS OAIRWf  (APM TOUR)             22.4        13.7       16.0               15.0                     11.5
CROSS   RODUCTION RATS              3.2         3.3        3.3               3.2                       Le
FAULT PLANNIN
AmToUS. SML (Tao)                  ..         ..         ..                  .
is ns t I o Uam  RaSE)            ..          ..         1.0 J              6.4                     21.4
P1m - noum n
I15  Of PM0 PROD. PtR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      99.0        96.0       95.0              6.9                      95.1
PER CAPITA SIll. OF
CALUmn cor C   WUIRSITS)        100.0        94.0       91.0               96.3                    118.2
PIRiS ClANS PR DA                66.0         4.0       56.0              33.4                     77.8
al mulmC  La   AIID PU15        14.0        16.0       14.0 le            16.5                     17.3
CHID (AGES 1-4) RA  aS             3.2                    19.0              16.6                     12.8
LIFE SPCT. A SKM  (TEARS)          41.7       4U.3        50.5              53.0                     57.8
INrANt MM. usn  Pm TO[W)          151.5       125.0      100.0             106.3                     96.8
ACCESS TO SAM MATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                              ..        37.0       66.6 4             42.4                     67.2
URInE                             ..         70.0       67.D              67.5                      93.4
i..                                          22.0       6.47               35.                      45.
ACCS TO EXIXTA DISPOSAL
CZ or POMAW)
roTAt                             ..         16.0       40.0 4            28.9                     s5.;
RRA                               ..         12.0       40.04              37.7                     63.0
UAL                               ..         18.0       40.0               20.7                     28.6
POPULATON PM   ISICIa            9350.0      8140.0     7670.0 It         11791.7                  4331.0
POP. in  uuSusc nlson            9920.0 ft  2430.       1730.0 V          2459.6                   1845.0
POP. 10 uosma  -
TOIAt                           360.0       300.        210.04&           98L. 1                   621.6
gun83                           180.0 i f     .        360.0              361.8                   5.0
RL                              40.0 i        ..       240.0             43719                   2511.3
ADISSIOIIS  SI HOSITAL  ED          ..          ..        31.0 I            27.2                     25.7
AVEREZ S1ZE oF VDOIEOLO
TOTAL                             ..          4.4
max~                      ..         ..          .                  ..
RAL                               ..          ..          .
AVCUQ 110. OF PhUSDIRS flO
TOTAL                             ..          2.6        ..                 ..
RAL                                ..         ...
PnC   ra  or DWELLINS URarCU.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
R27.5                                         ..2..
URL                                ..         ..         ..                 .



-23 -                                            AM= I
T A A L e  3'  Page  2 of  6
LAtA        _      _- BSOCIAL IIClATOUB DAT   T
zAuiA                 -EERNC mCs=coss (REITED AWRES3 b
MuT                     (IOST RWCENT STITATE) lb
1940&  7atfr 330587  NZUU  INcUIS       NIDDLE 1.0
19604b     1qy70t :rV"tT&b    ^ARICA S. Of SAARA   X. AVRCA A NEU EAST
ADJUStTED CNOUNENT RATIOS
PRInA:  TOTAL                     42.0       S9.0        96.0 f            95.7                     19.6
HALE                   S1.0       99.0       102.0 /d          100.0                    103.7
Toms.                  34.0        79.0       M0.0K             83.2                     75.2
SECINDdAls TOTAL                   2.0       13.0        17.0 /d           17.3                     42.9
PILME                   3.0        17.0       22.0 7            25.0                     5U.9
PrIALE                  1.0        1.0        12.0 TL-          14.-                     34.6
VOCATIONA  ( or SECDWfa)            27.6        3.2        2.3 /d             5.9                     10.0
PIIPSL-TEACIR RATXO
PDIKAD                            50.0       47.0        48.0 Id           41.1                     29.7
SECONARY                          14.0       22.0       22.0 1             25.5                     16.8
PASSINCR CARS/ThOUSAND POP          10.4       14.5       16.7 A             20.8                     17.8
RADIO RZUl =lETU0SAND  OP           4.8 It    15.0        26.5              107.                     175.9
TV UCEIVZs/TNOUSAIID POP             .. -.1               12.4               20.6                     51.2
MESPAP  ("DAILY GaERAL
INTERET-) CLEWUTION
PER THOUSAND POPUunOa               5.1       13.7        15.7              11.4                     37.2
CINA ANNUAL ATTDANCE/CAPITA         ..          ..         0.3 A              0.4                      2.4
TOTAL LAN0 PO13   (TEOUs)         1295.0     1621.0     21.0                   .                        .
YWS (PERCENT)                     33.3       32.6       33.0               36.2                     11.0
ACULTURE (PERCNT)                 79.0       73.0       67.0 I             54.5                     42.4
INDSW5T  CPRCZNT)                 7.0         9.0       11.0               16.3                     27.9
PAICIFATIOU RE (PERCWT)
TOTAL                             41.2       39.0        34.6              36.S                     26.2
mmZ                               55.3       52.9       47.5               47.1                     46.2
PUIALg                            27.3       25.2       22.6               27.2                      5.8
ECONUKIC D CE   P DEN  RATO         1.2         1.2        1.5                1                        1.3
i          -n-
nZR   or PVATE INC=
RECEIVED 3!
RIuS S OF OrEEWAOILS              33.7       23.011      ..
EZUS 202 F IWIWSOLDS             53.2        63.0       S6.7                *
LOURST 202 OF ROIMUOLDS           5.4         3.6 1      3.6 6
101105 402 OF  SoLoS             13.0        10.1       11.1*
inuin uA2=  mwU
NTh"MD AISOLUE POV          INCOM
LVmL  U PER CAPITA)
ursil                             ..          ..       247.01,            590.7                    22.3
RAWAL                              ..         .-       163.0              275.3                    134.0
ESTDtA=  RATE YOM= INCM
LV. (C$ PIZ CAPITA)
URN                                ..         ..        126.0 ILL545.6                             431.5
ERA?.                             ..          ..        S3.0              201.1                    326.0
ESTIAYND POP. DEMW AiSOUII!
POICRIT !No  tiflL CZ)
03381                             ..          .-        25.0*
ERAUL                             ..          ..         ..                ..                      W2.0
NOT AVAIULUE
NOT APPIXAA.E
/a  Mm' ro  aqepe for e*ah £odc.tor are popuLatSoo-wSated ar1_et14 man.. Cbveup of castrle
among the Sadicatorm demda as an allabIllty of daa and I not mIge.
lb   nlearn otbeuglse noted, "Data for 1960" rofer to aW Year beamn 1959 amid 1961; Data for 197V betmu
1969 and 1971; ad date for "lbt Reant EtotIne7 bstw. 1961 aid 1933.
I     nC 1977  /A 1930; 1o 1979;  If 1943; l& 1973; 1A  1976; /: 1962; jj 1973.
JUNE, 1935



-24 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                               |
Note Althouh the data are draws from scums pgenly judpd the mKt auhontative and rliable. it should also be noted thft they may not be internttiafly
comparable baste or tbe lack or atandardied deflnitdons and conepts ud by diffrent eountrim In colltlig the data. Thi data as. oehtsL uaut to 
decribe ordes of tmpi tude. indiate trnds, and chaactize certain major diffencs betten countries,
The refrence raups are (1 the -m  country group of the subject country nd 12) a coury group with somewhat higher ave   income than ite country
groupofthesubjec country lacepa or rHigh IncomeOil Exporrs" rroup where  lddle Income Nonh A1ric and Middle Esat isc hosen became of stronger
scio-cultural affinities). In the reference group data the averae a population weighted arithmrtic nem fror each indicator and shown only when mjority
ofthe counri in g roup has data for that indicator. Since the coverage ofountrie among the indicaon depends - the avaiibility ofdaea and is not uniforn.
cautin mutt beexercsd in relating averag ofone indicator to another. The average are only uefl in comparing the valu orone indicator at a tnme among
die country aund reference groupa.
ARA (thousand sq.km.)                                           CrudeBi Ath Rse (pert rhusmn)-Nunmber of live births in the year
Teal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                      Crud Death Rare (per tthJwnd-Number of deaths in the year
AgriEuhsWn-Estimate of agricultural ar  used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Grer Reprodcton Rar-Average number ordaughters a womnan
lie fallow. 1960.1970 and 19S2 data.                            wiL bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present agt-spectfic fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market pre  calculated by same conversion method as World        u,  Pk,lr-4 c$ors Anua I'heusdsl-Annual num-
Sn  Atrlas (1981-43 basis); 1983 data.                          ber ofacceptors ofbirth-control devics under auspics ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite    Fadi PkvnaeUsr (percent of marTrd wsmep-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dec-  ta8e of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1932 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although ror
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Totl dPopauaio. Mid-Yea (tsemadr)-As oriuly 1; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRnIION
and 1983 data.
Urban RPipufadoe (percent of toial)-Ratio of urban w  oa        hI.dr of FeePoduction Per Capia(1969-71 a10th-Index of per
capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animat feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counties: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary commodities (cg. sugarcane ;nstead of sugar;
-b           Rojcfaim                                           which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
1opulation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar bees livestock. and
total population by age and se  fertlity rats mortality rates. and  livestock products. Agegate production of each country is based
interrational migration in the base year 1930. these parameters  on national avenge producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per Cqapo S l of Corie (Pet Of ereasieuf-Comrput-
Stationary poplrion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorieequivalent ofnet food suppies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levd  tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age strucure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characterstics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate ofdecline of fertility  age and sex distibution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                       waste at household evel: 1.6!. 1970 and 1932 data.
Popation Monwenrun-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Gapta Supply of Potein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the tine that replacement-lvel fertiliy has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all counties established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year ' is measured as  provide for sninisnum allowacs of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year . given the assumption that fertility rmains at replce-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those or
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams or animal protein as an
Jbpwlata Density                                               averag for the worl proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkrm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply- 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
tares) of total arem 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.                 her Capita Protin Sopply fmm Anima amd Paes-Protein tupply
Per sqknm. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived fromn animals and pulses in grams per day: 196145.
land onIv. 1960. 1970. and 1932 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Popuatin Age Structre (pemcr)--Children (0-14 years). work-     Child (ag  1-4) Death Rate (per thousand)-Number or deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and rtired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per tnousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Phpdisi  Growth Rare (percesr)-total-Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043.     HEAI3H
Populto GCrowth Rare (percent)-Jarbar-Annual growth rates       Life Expectanmy at Bith (years)N-umber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 25 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at b tmu of of it birth we  to stay the sme throuShout Its lfe;  Pup#-tadcer Ratio - pubnwy. and rco r-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and *983 datL                                       rolled In primay and secondary lvels divided by numben of
bJw Matp Ate (pr thosmd)bi-Number of Infants who die           teachers in the corrpondi  teves.
before reching one year of ap per thousad lve births In a given
ya  1960. 1970 nd 19U3 data.                                   CONSUMPTION
Acent to is AOWar (1peew of pplalsa)Uttal whm0    Aid          Pases_  C's (pr trhosad pefuldm)-Psenger cars com-
rvral-Nmber of people (ttal urban, and rural) with reaonable   prin motor crs seadng less thap eight paeson  excludes embul-
acm   to sfe wae  supp  (nclud  tread surface wat   or         ances, heases and militry vehicle
untreated but un   amnated water such as thaI from proetC      Red's Receivers (per   r   .pulaW nAI types of receivers
borebola, sprnp and utary wells) as percente of their respec-  for rdio boadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
dve popultions In an urban re a publc fountain or standpat     excludes un-license  receiven in countries and in yean  when
loced not more than 200 meters rom a house may be considered  registratio  of radio sets was in efct; data for secent years may
a being within reasable access of that house. In rural  oeas  w  t be comparable since most countuies abolished licensing.
reaonable wes would imply that the houswife or members of thec
boumelhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  tVRalpbic per thommustpopularionT eccives fornblcnd  t
in fetching the family's water needr to eernal pubntc per taousand popurheon; estaies uncensed TV
^J " 0 ( of ot~~~~~~~ecivten  in countrie m  in ye    wbeo tiumoo orfv sxts
Acces to Excet Dispoal (perce  of papaleton)-t.tal, wo1,111    inef
asl rare-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) seved by
ecreuta dposal a prcentge of their respective populations.     Nkewspiw Ch'uem (pr thiw.udpopaplestk-Shows the aver-
Excrete disposl may include the collection and dispol, with or  age aculabton of 'dady general interest rpapeew defined s a
without treament, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   peodcal pubication devoted primuily to reording general ews.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installationu  It is considered to be daily" if it appers at ket four times a week.
Popueationper Phyuke-ftpulation divided by number of prac-     C       Amal Atendnce pef Cepn per Yar--Based on the
dting physcians qualified from a medical school at university  vd.  number of dckcets sold during the year. inlduding admissions to
PJolaton per Nrsi  Par-Population divited by number of         drive-in cnemas and mobile units.
pmcticing male and female graduate nurss, assistant nur.       LBOR
practical nurses and nursing auilaries. hAvRFORCE
Pupaiom per Hopitl Bed-o,.   en and taraP-IPopulation          Totd abor Foc (thonamldsi-Economically active persons, in-
(total urban. and nal) divided by their zspecive number of     cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and private geni ral -an i   students  tc .. cveing population of aU  ages. Defnitions in
hospitals and ehabilitation cen   Hospitals are estabvanrious countries are not comparable; 1960,1970 and 1983 data.
pe_nanendy staffed by at least one physician. Estab'ishm-nts p  Fmek (pocentj-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial cre ae not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricte (percet)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midvik. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total lbor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  dtam
of medical faciities.                                          Industry (perceat)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adiuiu per Hospital &e-Totat number of admissions to or        Iacturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 datL
A:rtinain Rat fperent)--catel,miewk, amdjemalr-Prticipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rtes are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
A=r   S;:e of Huel  (perso  per    1           ,osw*oM)--ad. -wa,  as perenages of total, male and female populaion of all ages
aIrVIP-A household consists ofa group of individuals who share  resp_ctiy: 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
fiving quarters and their nain mnals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation ates reflecting age-sex strur of the population, and
may not be induded in the household for statiscal purposes.    long ime trend. A few estimates are from national sourcs.
A.age NxmVhr of Persons pfr Reoom-roral, xrwh, end rura-       Economic Depedec Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in aU urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dweUings. respectively. DweUlings exclude
non-permanent sructures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISlRIBLTION
Pretage of Dweins wtk Electdcty--mal. -hai and rual-           PerCt1ge of Trwr Diposaht Income (both i cash ad kInd)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarmers as percen-  Accruing to pecentil groups of houseiolds ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings resvecively.          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adwsed Emomiwn  Ratios                                       The following esdmates are very approximate meaures of poverty
P1ry school - toraf male and femae-ross totaL male and         levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of al ages at the prmry level as percentages of  Elsmted Absoue Pverty Icome Led (S per capro)-hrban
respetive primary school-ge populations. While many countries  and  ral-Absolute poverty income kvel is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sonie countries with universal  Esnited Reatve Povwrty ucne Ll (USf per capira)-erhw
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rual-Rural reative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secwzdar' scwol - total. male ad female-Computed as above;     iving in urban areas.
secondary eduction requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estited Popuaion Below Aseoble Poverty Lcwn Lewl (per-
mary instructuon; provides generaL vocationaaL or teacher training  cen -wram end rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ecme courses are geneally excluded.
Vocanral Enrolmni (percnt of seconcivy)-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Dat Division
tions indude technical, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deparmets of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



- 26 -                                    ANNEX I
ZAMBrA: FBtO1C DWAME                             Page 5 of 6
pi1ntim:        6.25   m     (.1d-1983)
GN per Capita: USS    (oLd-1983)
1984
t]B$     BP r o9 t               Anmmi Grcurh Rates (2)
indicator         Mi111w   GE CDP       1975-80     1981     198      1983    1984
P, FaCtor Ct               2157       84        -0.7      2.7    -2.1      -80      -2.0
at, mika Prim              2558      100       -1.1       6.2     -2.8      -2.0    -1.3
~dw1bzrm                  377       15         0.5     8L2    -11.7        8.4     9.7
t[nL%                     359       14        -3.0      4.7      0.0       3.0   -8.0
rWm  adstuy1          646       25         0.2      5.1    -0.9       -5.1    -1.3
Smices                   1176       46         0.4      6.5     -L6       -4.3    -3.5
COunptcl                  2193        86         0.0      9.3     -.8      -4.4    -1.5
0MW  Tnwst                  359       14       -16.9    -11.1    -23.5    -24.2    -4.2
Eaqorts of Goods & Ns      908        35        -3.5    -12.8      15.7    -9.7    -80
norPs of Goods & ES        902        35       -89    -16.0    -22.0   -15.6   -13.5
Gmw  Ilistic lai1gs         365       14         0.0    -48.2    -26.6      83.9     6.3
Nr  FEiZ                     Gemml Go ntS2               utml Goverrawt (1984)
(Kil.        ZcofI1         KNMn.)        Z of GCP
Ouant Reeipts                                             1,170          24.7
hrcent _siditnes                                          1,241          26.2
O.at sigplns                                               -71           -1.5
Capial 5qoeitzw                                             275           5.8
Exte   F1imcLy                                               60           1.3
mm,          and PME1 FUS              1975  1I83   1981   1982   1983   1984
UB1iMWK, E&xl %riod) -
MMy  Ma  Qiai Mlbu                      493    907    979   1309   1444   1703
flk Credit to    _ee                   318   1355   1495   1983   2)99   2287
Bak Credit to Privte Sector3           393    505    765    905   1033   1202
CP=etWe of Indlex Nmies)
tAmy and QImi Nbuy as 2 of GOP         31.3   30 1   28.4   37    34.2   35.0
Ibole31e Price Ine (1966.'100)4       18.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.7  832.0
Almal perota dwge in:
lhsale  Price id.c                   16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.2   25.4
Bwk Credit tD    rut                406.9   2.8   10.3   32.7    5.8    9.0
kdC Cedlt to Private Sector          17.0    4.6   51.4  1L3    14.1   16.4
1      ,bmfactabg, comtuctLon, electrcity, gm and wanter.
2 FIgu   do amt d&ffer sdgfigly frci -Cea=l Gave .
3 Tind peastatl O                                                               ESA-
4 AU &maiwny umd gmda.                                                          June 1985



- 27 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
WM PMS AND CAP  IWC
WAUM CF PAUB1                                               If1DIE En            1984
1981   1982   1983   1984
-  IiU mu-                          '         iS u. z
hqpos of eods, NS            1,129   1,067  1,005    908    CBQp                     685     83
iports ofMade, N5S           1.633   1410   106 3    902    C1ult                     55      7
Plmrc cGap (dei -t-)           0     -       '         6    Led ad Zirnc              45      5
AUlodtr                 39       5
Factor Services (iuc)a        -218   -235   -88   -174         Taal
Net TGasfem                   -'       -72    -M      -
Bala1m an CUmt Ac t             W     650            -218
ED,  Br. Dw.. 31, 1984
OEfEdc1Ga Gts                   26      30     42     50
Net M[ BDrWW                   22D    258    128       34    Rblk Debt, li. g_emd    2,817
DihIS     ts -W 4J                    3     i7      155                   Private Debt
,mxttzatio8                  187      92     48      21    iba. O.tst        &a Dshlua7
NeC DE                         367    -57      64      75
CauercIa PyimE ts Arras         53    240    -)        25
Other T     (O.e.i.)           176    267      67    -71      YO YU            PM 1994
(arwin  Beserwa                 38    -8       25      5                                   Z
*IHc 1. bt, toi. gcanteed  7.4 b
mem&um itse                                                     2      hiarunteId pdute 1t   e
Thtl Qatstadig Ia brsed  7=.4 b
Gross tnt'1. Ieriea             52    140    115    110
(EedW  Of ;QiortS)            (1.7)  (5.2)  (5.7)  (6.3)
Qxroent A/C Bd. as Z         -21.9  -16.7   -62   -.2    MIDfM  IU lI, l    31, 15
RA1ES CF EMAU                                                                         MDD    Mk
statnrg   Dlsbhced 337.92  43.03
1981     US$1.00  -         0.8684                           bdlsbued                108.23 139.52
1982                        0.9282                           (katutidh  lad.
1983                        1.2506                             [666.bwed            44615 1255
1984                        1.7943
a Emmludes avL-8 an interest and amrtzatlan  si      aid mazes =sdhsld.
b Act] debt service pmid an Pb      d a bblieund   bl.l G}Aa     debt, ex1ud1rg aresrs and D
tepsymet. Sdhe&ded debt seric da  n PM debt s uzLvw mlt to 46.1 pecet of eq=Us of RaOd
aid noxi-ffctor servLae.6
..not available                                                                    jam 1985



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Amount in US$ Million
(Less Cancellations)
Loan   Credit                                                                  Undisbursed
No.   No.       Year   Borrover          Purpose                Bank    IDA   Loan Credit 1/
20 Loans fully
disbursed                               432.06
1424            1977   Zambia            Industrial Forestry    16.80            0.08
1566    798     1978   Zambia           Third  lighway          11.25   11.25  11.25   5.29
863     1979   Zambia           Coffee Production                 6.00          0.45
873     1979   Zambia           Technical Assistance              5.00          1.84
1790    973     1980   Zambia           Third Railway           25.00   15.00   7.35   1.84
1923            1981   Development      Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company         15.00            0.59
2001            1981   Zambia           Eastern Province
Agric. Development      11.00           7.99
1193     1982  Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development              18.00         15.19
1196     1982  Zambia            Smallholder Dairy Dev.            7.50          6.74
1251     1982   Zambia           Fifth Educatton                 25.00          18.01
2151            1982   Zambia Intdus-
trial 6 Mining
Company          Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.  5.10             4.25
2152            1982   Zambia            Pet. Exploration Prom.  6.60            2.90
1333     1983  Zambia            Maamba Coal Eng.                  4.30          3.14
1362     1983   Zambia           Rural Water Supply               10.00          9.24
SF2      1983   Zambia           Rural Water Supply                6.00          4.37
1437     1984  Zambia            Indi Forestry-PhaseITL          22.40          21.48
2391            1984   Zambia           Export Rehab. & Diver. 75.00            73.82
1985   Zambia           Fisheries                        7.10           7.10
1985   Zambia           Agricultural Rehab.             25.00          25.00
1985   Zambia           Fourth Railways       _         20.00          20.00
Total                                          597.81  182.55 108.23 139.52
of which has been repaid                      151.66      -
Total nov outstanding                          446.15  182.55
Amounts sold                       28.58
of which has been repaid          28.58
Total nov heLd by Bank/IDA                     446.15  182.55
of which is andisbursed                       108.23  139.52
NOTES: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
1/ Credits denominated in SDRs (Crodit 1193-zA and above) are shown in US Dollar equivalents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of July 31, 1985)
Investment   Coumitment                                      US$ Million Equivalen
No.          Year                     MMpe of Business      Loan  Equity      Total
216-ZA       1972   Zambia Bata Shoe                         0.85   0.23        1.08
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing
250-ZA       1973   Zambia  Bata Shoe  Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery           1.20    -          1.20
307-ZA       1975   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials  0.78   0.21        0.99
324-ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia          Company                -     0.54       0.54
394-ZA       1978   Century Padkages
Limited            Packaging Materials  0.10.   -          0.10
483-ZA       1980   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production           28.00    -        28.00
427-ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited     Textiles & Fibers    7.60    -          7.60
600-ZA       1982   Zambia Consoli-
dated Copper Mines Copper Production   25.14    -         25.14
709-ZA       1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism              15.79    -         15.79
743-ZA       1985  Mpongwe Develop-   Food and Food
ment Co. Ltd.,     Processing            1.54   0.29        1.83
721-ZA       1985   Kafue Textiles of  Textiles & Fibers    3.15    -           3.15
Zambia Limited
Total gross commitments                 84.15   1.27      85.42
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                  .32.25   0.20      32.45
Total now held by IFC                   51.90   1.07      52.97
Total undisbursed                        7.47    -         7.47



- 30 -
AMm  III
CIBL   OF Zo mI
ThZAN  -IEI          -MZTT            -BXW MDJKCI
,11_m nOJIcr DM  -
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           2 months.
(b)  First presentation to Bank:             Decesber 1984.
(c)  Appraisal mission:                      March/April 1985.
(d)  Negotiations:                           Ainust 7 and 8, 1985.
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:          October 1985.
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
i)   Execution of subsidiary loan agreement (para. 53).
(ii) Submission of acceptable program for supply of oil (para.
49).
(b) Other Special Conditions
(i)    Interim program initiated for maintenance measures and
management improvements (para. 54).
(ii)   Project supervisory comittee to approve contracts and
expenditures, ensure monitoring, and meet regularly
(para. 54).
(iiU)   Implementation program for pipeline rehabilitation to be
agreed (para. 54).



ZAMBIA                         r        - 
FUEL RESOURCES AND FACILITIES                  )  /       *       \        T A N Z A N I A
.,=Coal diposit areas
-     Railroads                       I-
\ ze ~~Notionol trOPlo :t01/  
ProvincoI coapitlO  10 0  sO 1o  tbtoS o .O
-  Provincile boundarms
,Ilernotional boundarm s                     I                      _ I a
t 2_ ,>~~~~~~~~~~'No  O R r H  >r §}
| / o0 Z A I b7R 1   0  NU E
!    NOOLA   {1.                              .
W w e$+5Tr E R N  t7                 ,, ,                                *                   j
ANGO;ASX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ZM IIA>WE1l">
- - - - - -                                                                   ALAWIWA. -  -  ZttStIv,
....  NAMIBI A     Livingstuw                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*   .-*  Zr  %'  %.4'OtSWA~~~~A           -  -    -i;        






