Report No. 1145a-PAK                                               FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation Limited for a Tenth
Loan Pakistan
August 27, 1976
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1     =    Rs 9.9
Rs 1          US$o.1O1
ACRONYMS
ADB        -          Asian Development Bank
BIM        -          Board of Industrial Management
EPB        -          Export Promotion Bureau
EPF        -          Equity Participation Fund
FAO        -          Food and Agricultural Organization of the
United Nations
GOP        -          Government of Pakistan
ICP        -          Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP       -          Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IERR       -          Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFRR       -          Internal Financial Rate of Return
KfW        -          Kreditanstalt fur Wideraufbau
NCCC       -          National Credit Consultative Council
NDFC       -          National Development Finance Corporation
NIT        -          National Investment Trust
NWFP       -          North-West Frontier Province
O-E        -          Open-end Rotor Spindle Operation
PAYE       -          Pay As You Earn Scheme
PCCC       -          Pakistan Central Cotton Committee
PFC        -          Peoples' Finance Corporation
PICIC      -          Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation
PIDC       -          Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation
SBP        -          State Bank of Pakistan
SICs       -          Small Industries Corporations/Boards
SSI        -          Small-Scale Industry
UNDP       -          United Nations Development Program
USAID      -          United States Agency for International Development
WPSIC      -          West Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan        July 1 - June 30
PICIC                         January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................    i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION * ..        .................................***     1
II.    ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT .............                 2
General ......... ............................             2
Industrial Sector . ... . ....o. . . . . .  .... . ... .o...   3
Industrial Policy . ..... ... .. .. ..... ......           4
Industrial Finance ....o.o ............o                   6
III. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS ..o...           ..........o..              7
Share Capital and Ownership ...ooo ............            7
Organization and Staff .......... . ..........             8
Procedures and Standards ......        o..o..oo            9
Operating Policies ...         ......................    10
Relations with Government and Business
Community .... . ... . ....   12
IV. RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS ........ ...       o.o ....     oo.    12
Resource Mobilization . ..     ooo   .........            12
Resource Allocation ..          o ............o...        14
Development Impact  ...................                   15
Vo FINANCIAL ASPECTS . ........ . ..... ..... . .                  16
General   .......o   ...... o.....o..oo.                  16
Assets and Liabilities in Bangladesh .  .....             16
Quality of Portfolio .......................              17
Liquidity .... ................       ....... o* ..o*oo.....  22
Financial Structure .. -o-o-o.....                        22
Summary Assessment .o ....... .o.oo . .......             24
VI. PROSPECTS ........       ............ ........                  24
General Outlook . . ..... ..... ... .. ..    *    24
Business Forecasts ..... o.oo  ...........                26
Resource Requirements ...*........ oooo ....              27
Financial Projections ....... ......... ......            27
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. Elejalde, D. Brown, N. Fostvedt and
A. Wateler following their visit to Pakistan in January/February, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipit, only in the performance
of their oMcial dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
VII. PROPOSED LOAN .................. ................        29
Lending Scheme ............................         29
Main Terms  . ........  29
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS ......        .................. ..      30
ANNEXES
1.   The Textile Sector
Figure 1 - Production of Cotton by Years 1947-73
Figure 2  -  Production of Cotton by Staple Length 1947-73
Table 1   -  Fiber Characteristics of Cotton Varieties
Recommended for Cultivation in Pakistan
Table 2   -  Overall Commodity Balance of Cotton (Expressed
in Raw Cotton Equivalent)
Table 3   -  Mill Consumption, Yarn Production, Waste
Percentages, and Normal Consumption, 1960-75
Table 4   -  World Production, Consumption and Trade in Cotton,
1960-85
Table 5   -  Spot Market Prices at Karachi - Varietywise
(Annual Averages) 1965-66 to 1975-76
Table 6   -  Cotton Yarn Prices at Karachi - Countwise (Annual
Averages) 1965-66 to 1975-76
Table 7   -  Price per Yard of Cloth at Karachi (Annual Averages)
1965-66 to 1975-76
Table 8   -  Comparative Cost 1960 Model Ring Spindle and Open-
End Rotor System
Table 9   -  Comparative Investment and Operating Costs
- 1976 Model Ring Spindle and Open-End Rotor
System
Appendix I - Proposed Terms of Reference for Textile Study
2.   Institutions Financing Industry in Pakistan
3.   Interest Rate Trends
4.   List of Sharholders as of September 30, 1975
5.   Board of Directors and Executive Committee, as of January 1, 1976
6.   Outline of Business Policies
7.   PICIC's Proposed Strategy for 1976-78
8.   Main Terms and Conditions for Assistance as of August 16, 1976
9.   Resource Position as of December 31, 1975
10.  Details on Foreign Currency Loans and Credits obtained as of
December 31, 1975
11. Rupee Resurces and Terms as of D)ecember 31, 1975
12. Summary of Loan Operations 1958 to December 31, 1975
13. Summary of Underwriting and Equity Operations-1958 to September 30, 1975
14. Characteristics of PICIC Operations
Table 1   -  Sectoral Distribution of Loan and Equity Portfolio
as of September 30, 1975
Table 2   -  Comparative Statment of Loans Approved-1958
September 30, 1975



- 3 -
15. Rates of Return for Projects Sanctioned between July 1973 and
September 1975
16. Agreement between the Government of Pakistan and PICIC regarding-
the Problem of Assets and Liabilities in Bangladesh
17. Trends in Arrears, 1969-75
18. Analysis of Arrears over 3 Months as of September 30, 1975
19. PICIC's Plan of Action on Collections
20. Summarized Income Statements, December 31, 1970-75
21. Balance Sheets, December 31, 1970-75
22. Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, 1976-80
23.  Projected Foreign and Domestic Currency Resource Position, 1976-80
24. Projected Income Statements, 1976-80
25. Project Cash-Flow Statements, 1976-80
26. Projected Balance Sheets, 1976-80
27. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART






P.IKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
PAKISTAN T"JDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited
(PICIC) is the main source of long-term finance to the medium and large-scale
private industrial sector in Pakistan. It has applied to IBRD for a $25 mil-
lion loan and it also received recently a $25 million loan from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB). IBRD and ADB have coordinated in processing these
loans and their approach is consistent in all important issues.
ii.       PICIC was established in 1957 with active World Bank Group assist-
ance. By 1970, it had become a strong and financially sound development
institution and had contributed significantly to Pakistan's industrial de-
velopment. However, over the last five years, PICIC has been through a
period of quite exceptional difficulty. Initially the problems resulted from
the separation of Bangladesh with the consequent economic distortions in-
cluding the 1972 devaluation which more than doubled the debt service burden
of PICIC's foreign exchange borrowers. Further, PICIC had retained the li-
abilities for projects financed in the former East Pakistan, while it had
lost control of the related assets. This was the main reason why IBRD's ninth
and last loan to PICIC (961-PAK) was made (in 1973) to the Government of
Pakistan (GOP) and administered by PICIC, rather than directly to PICIC, since
it was not then considered creditworthy. PICIC was in the process of coping
with these problems when, in 1974, the impact of the world recession seriously
affected its activities, particularly loan collections. Although some seri-
ous problems remain, there has been some recent improvement in PICIC's fi-
nancial position and the long-run prospects of solving the remaining problems
are satisfactory, so that PICIC can therefore again be considered creditworthy.
This report recommends a $25 million loan direct to PICIC.
iii.      After improved performance in FY73, when GDP increased by 7.0% in
constant prices and when the country achieved a balance of trade surplus,
Pakistan has since suffered serious balance of payments problems and its eco-
nomy grew by only 2.6% in FY75 and an estimated 4%-5% in FY76. This was due
largely to unfavorable weather conditions which affected agricultural produc-
tion, to a large increase in the import bill, and to international recession
which affected exports and industrial growth. There is need for additional
industrial investment to improve growth prospects and export performance.
There is also need to improve the private savings rate which has declined
substantially from 14.4% of GDP in FY73 to 6.5% in FY75. The industrial
sector accounts for 50%-60% of the country's export earnings, and about 15%
of GDP and should play an important role in improving balance of payments
problems and growth prospects.



- ii -
iv.       The private sector now owns some 70% of industrial assets compared
with over 90% in the 1960's. The nationalization of the vegetable ghee in-
dustry in September 1973 and of the shipping industry and locally owned com-
mercial banks in January 1974 adviersely affected the expected revival in
private industrial investment.  In current prices, private sector investments
in medium and large-scale indust-7y declined in FY74. Although there was an
improvement in FY75, private investment is still below the levels achieved
in the early 1970's and full revIval of private sector investment interest
will probably be gradual. GOP expects the role of the private sector in
industrial development to continule to be mainly for export-oriented industries
and those processing indigenous l-aw materials. The public sector largely
concentrates on import-substitut:on industries.
v.         The last two years have been difficult for PICIC.  The poor invest-
ment climate affected not only it:s lending operations but also its collection
performance. Further, the loss of a large number of senior staff weakened
its middle management.  Neverthe:ess, PICIC's staff remains adequate and
a number of steps to strengthen it, outlined in this report, are being taken
in connection with the proposed loan. The Managing Directorship is now vacant
and IBRD will be consulted on the new selection. After the departure of
PICIC's Managing Director in November 1975, Mr. N.M. Uquaili, an ex-PICIC
Managing Director, and an ex-Finance Minister, was appointed Chairman of
PICIC's Board. He joined in January 1976 and has started making improve-
ments in the organization, in its procedures and standards, and has also been
effective in improving collections, and solving PICIC's problem of assets and
liabilities in Bangladesh (para viii).  His leadership will be a key factor in
attaining the further improvements needed.
vi.        PICIC's loan approvals declined from Rs 490 million in 1973 to
Rs 315 million in 1975. They arE projected at Rs 350 million in 1976 in-
creasing thereafter by about 15% per annum. Foreign currency loan commitments
(net) improved from Rs 75 millior. in 1973 to Rs 338 million in 1974 and sta-
bilized at Rs 269 million in 197'. Foreign currency loan commitments are pro-
jected to be Rs 290 million in 1976, Rs 319 million in 1977 and Rs 333 million
in 1978. To fulfill its commitment program through September 1978 and after
accounting for other sources of torrowings (ADB, bilateral credits, etc.),
PICIC needs an additional $25 million loan.
vii.      PICIC remains an efficient institution capable of competently
allocating and administering IBRI. funds. During 1973-1975, its disbursements
accounted for 21% of the total private sector investment in medium and large-
scale industries. The average ey-ante economic rate of return of its approved
projects over the last 2-1/2 years is 22%. The average ex-ante financial
rate of return is 17%. These prcjects have an average fixed investment per
job created of $12,000. PICIC hes also improved its promotional activities,
particularly in the medium-scale sector. However, more promotional work needs
to be done to reduce PICIC's finencial exposure in the textile and sugar
industries, which respectively account for 45% and 17% of the outstanding
portfolio.



- iii -
viii.      Overall PICIC's financial position has improved over the last two
years. Due to GOP arrangements, the uncertainty regarding the status of its
Bangladesh liabilities has been removed and PICIC will bear no loss from this.
Partly because of a share capital increase during 1974, the capital structure
has improved and PICIC's debt/equity ratio is below the 7:1 contractual limit,
which should be retained for the proposed loan. On the other hand, profit-
ability declined in 1975 and is not expected to improve substantially over the
next 5 years although it remains at an adequate level of 1.3% (after tax) on
average total assets. The main problem is the condition of the portfolio, as
the arrears have deteriorated, due mainly to the recent economic and political
developments. Because of the large accumulated overdues, and as improvements
will depend largely on economic/political developments, it will take some time
for the arrears problem to be fully solved, and without rescheduling they are
not expected to decline in amount before 1978. An analysis of PICIC's portfolio
indicates that the long run prospects for collections are good, although the
large volume of overdues creates some uncertainty. After a careful review by
the auditors, PICIC has increased the provisions for its portfolio, and these
should be sufficient to cover possible losses.
ix.       The low collections also affected PICIC's liquidity, forcing it to
borrow from the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) to service some of its debt. For
the proposed loan a number of actions, outlined in this report, are being
taken by GOP and PICIC to improve the financial position and to ensure that
PICIC's liquidity will be maintained. PICIC has a competent and experienced
top management capable of tackling the problems faced. It is therefore
reasonable to assume, as evidenced by the most recent performance under the
new management, that collections will continue to improve and that the arrears
problem will be solved in the long-run. PICIC's financial projections indicate
that reserves and provisions should remain at about 15% of the total portfolio,
and the debt/equity ratio (contractual definition) at about 6.6:1, or slightly
below the contractual limit. By 1980, PICIC's debt outstanding to IBRD should
be the same as at present, $35 million, and should account for 19% of PICIC's
long-term debt outstanding and for 13% of its total assets.
x.         A $25 million loan is recommended.  The objectives of the proposed
loan would be: (a) to help finance economically viable industrial projects
controlled by the private sector; and (b) to continue efforts to reestablish
PICIC's past institutional and financial strength as a promoter of industry
and a mobilizer of resources. Up to $0.2 million of the loan would be allocated
to finance the foreign exchange cost of a study of the textile sector, which
is the most important industry in Pakistan contributing over 50% to manufactur-
ed exports. The objective of the study would be to determine the strategy to
develop Pakistan's textile industry in order to meet the projected national
requirements and to improve its export performance.






PAkI ISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
is one of the first development finance companies (DFCs) established with
World Bank Group assistance. IBRD made its first loan to PICIC in 1957, and
by now it has made 9 loans for a total of $208 million. During the 1960s
PICIC developed into a well managed and experienced DFC and obtained assistance
from many lenders, including multilateral, bilateral and some private sources.
However, the last five years have been exceptionally difficult. A substantial
portion of its assets were lost through the separation of Bangladesh, and the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) had to provide special assistance to enable it to
meet its obligations. Accordingly the last IBRD loan (961-PAK) in 1973 was to
GOP to establish a fund administered by PICIC. 1/ A number of industrial en-
terprises were nationalized, so that PICIC's sphere of activity in the private
sector was curtailed. It was coping with these problems when, in 1974, it met
the most severe of the post-war world recessions. Pakistan, a relatively open
and trade-oriented economy with substantial exports of cotton textiles, was
particularly hard hit and PICIC, which held an important role in financing the
textile industry, was also seriously affected. Arrears rose very rapidly, and
PICIC had to obtain further GOP assistance to maintain its liquidity.
1.02      PICIC's financial position is improving although serious problems
remain, particularly the large volume of overdues in its portfolio. These
problems, although difficult, are under control and given reasonable assist-
ance and co-operation from GOP, they can be solved. Subsequent sections in
this report describe the effect of these events on PICIC and the steps which
it has taken and is taking to deal with them. These steps have been discussed
at length with IBRD and, in effect, they constitute our basis for considering
PICIC creditworthy for the $25 million direct loan here proposed. IBRD and
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) that is also lending to PICIC during this
year have cooperated in processing these loans, and the approach is consist-
ent in all important issues.
1/   Excluding this loan ($25 million) where PICIC bears no liability, PICIC's
outstanding debt to IBRD was $35 million as of December 31, 1975. As of
August 13, 1976, $15.8 million out of this latest loan had been disbursed
(the loan is fully committed) while less than $1 million remained to
be disbursed under the eighth loan.



- 2-
1.03      The objectives of the proposed loan would be  (a) to help finance
economically viable industrial projects in the private sector, which controls
some 70% of industrial assets and is particularly export oriented; and (b) to
continue efforts to reestablish PICIC's past institutional and financial
strength as a promoter of industry and mobilizer of resources. Up to $0.2
million would finance the foreign exchange cost of a study of the textile
sector, which is the most important industry in Pakistan and produces over
50% of manufactured exports. The objective of the study would be to assist
Pakistan in determining the strategy to develop its textile industry in order
to meet the projected national requirements and to improve its export perform-
ance.
II. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
General 1/
2.01      After an improvement in FY73 when GDP increased by 7.0% in constant
prices, Pakistan's economic growth declined to 4.6% in FY74 and 2.6% in FY75.
This was due largely to unfavorable weather conditions which affected agricul-
tural production and in turn other sectors, and to the international recession
which affected industrial growth. Agricultural production declined by 2.0%
in FY75 after growing by 1.3% in FY74 and by 1.7% in FY73. Industrial produc-
tion declined by 0.6% in FY75, compared with a growth rate of 6.5% in FY74 and
9.7% in FY73. Due to better weather, GDP improved in FY76 with estimated
overall growth at 4%-5%. Industry is estimated to have grown by only 1%-2%
(para 2.05).
2.02      Balance of payments current; deficits have expanded in recent years.
From a level of $130 million in FY73, the deficit increased to $1,224 million
in FY75,and was about $1,156 million in FY76. This has been due to large
increases in the price of oil and other imports, while the price of Pakistan's
exports (particularly cotton products) have not increased as rapidly, and
actually declined in FY75. In the longer run, the performance of the industrial
sector will be a key to improvements in exports. Manufactured commodities
accounted for 62% of total exports during FY73, 61% during FY74, and 52%
during FY75, the decline being due to the impact of international recession on
textile exports.
2.03      The wholesale price index grew by 20% in FY73, 27% in FY74 and
26% in FY75 (2%-4% in FY70 and FY71). The high rate of inflation and the
nationalization policy caused private savings to decline from 12% of GDP in
FY70 to 6.5% in FY75 (para 2.12). Total savings fell from 13% of GDP to
5.6% during the same period. Due to a decline in international prices, to
GOP efforts to control monetary expansion, and to stabilization of foodgrain
prices, the inflation rate declined substantially during the first half of
FY76, when bank deposits expanded by 24%. This has reduced the liquidity
1/   A more detailed assessment of Pakistan's economy is contained in IBRD/
IDA's latest Economic Report No. 1023-PAK of March 1, 1976.



- 3 -
strain on commercial banks as the ratio of advances to deposits declined from
90% in January 1975 to 77% in September 1975. Estimated inflation for FY76
on an annual average basis is 11Z-12%.
Industrial Sector
2.04      The manufacturing sector continues to contribute about 15% to GDP,
of which 12% represents medium- and large-scale industry. Since 1973, the
major change in the industrial structure has been the expansion of the public
sector, which now accounts for about 30% of industrial assets. Ownership of
the 31 private companies in the 10 basic industrial categories 1/ that GOP had
managed since January 1972 was officially transferred to GOP in November 1973.
The vegetable ghee industry was nationalized in September 1973 and the shipping
industry and commercial banks in January 1974. In July, 1976 GOP took over
the domestic enterprises engaged in cotton ginning, rice milling, and flour
milling. During FY73-FY75 the private sector accounted for about 60% of total
industrial investment, compared to 90% in the 1960's. Excluding one large
public sector project, industrial investments by the private sector are
expected to be around 50% over the next 5 years (para 6.01). GOP expects the
private sector to concentrate on export oriented industries, and the public
sector largely on import substitution.
2.05      Agro-based industries 2/ account for some 60% of industrial value-
added. 3/ The poor performance of the agricultural sector contributed to the
recent slowdown in industrial growth, as raw materials were not sufficiently
available and became more costly. The international recession also affected
industrial activity. The textile sector, which employs over 35% of the
industrial labor force and usually accounts for about 30% of industrial value
added, contributing over 50% of manufactured exports, was particularly affected.
The crisis in the textile sector was also aggravated by GOP policies over
duties and raw cotton prices. However, export duties on yarn and cloth
were abolished in August 1974 and raw cotton prices reduced in October 1974.
Nevertheless, the revival of this industry during FY76 has been slower than
expected due to a decline in cotton production and quality resulting from
floods in Sind province. This, and the slow revival in the world economy,
explains the slack industrial growth during FY76 (para 2.01).
1/   The 10 categories are:  iron and steel, basic metals, heavy engineering,
heavy electricals, motor vehicle assembly and manufacturing, tractor
plants assembly and manufacturing, heavy and basic chemicals, petro-
chemicals, cement and public utilities.
2/   Such as textiles, sugar, vegetable oil, paper, leather and tobacco.
3/   Chemicals (pharmaceuticals and fertilizers) and engineering industries
each account for about 10% of industrial value added.



-4-
2.06      Annex 1 provides a background note on the textile sector.  It
projects the availability of cotton, surplus to domestic requirements, to
be exported as lint, yarn, cloth and made-up goods and indicates that there
is a need to improve product quality to obtain better export prices. It
also discusses the need for additional investment, particularly in balancing,
modernization and replacement. There is also a need for new spinning capacity
but this should be done selectively, preferably for integrated units. However,
while the information available leads to the conclusion that world demand
would provide an expanded market, the analysis does not indicate the most
probable types, quantities and qualities of yarn, cloth and made-up goods that
would maximize benefits. The open-end (O-E) rotor system of processing lint
into yarn appears to offer substantial investment opportunities in Pakistan
(Annex 1 paras 26-29). However, it also poses questions including whether
market demand is for yarn or cloth and of what quality and type. To answer
these kinds of questions and to help guide GOP, Pakistan lending agencies and
sub-borrowers in the development of the industry, a market study should be
executed by GOP and PICIC. GOP has asked that up to $200,000 from the propos-
ed loan be allocated to finance the foreign cost of such a study, which would
be partly undertaken by foreign consultants. PICIC and the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) are prepared to cover part of the local currency
costs, estimated at $100,000 equivalent. 1/ It is recommended that up to $0.2
million of the loan be allocated to GOP to finance the foreign cost of the
study under arrangements outlined in para 7.01. Appendix 1, Annex I shows the
draft terms of reference which should be agreed with GOP before loan effective-
ness. The contract and appointment of consultants acceptable to IBRD would be
conditions of disbursement for that portion of the loan. The study should be
completed by September 30, 1977.
Industrial Policy
2.07      The Fifth Five Year Plan (FY77-81) is still under preparation and
should be available by the end of this calendar year. A draft indicates that
industrial policy is likely to emphasize: (i) development of basic industries
to achieve self-sufficiency in the not too distant future; (ii) as in previous
plans, industries using local raw materials and machinery; (iii) export
oriented and import substitution industries to improve the balance of payments;
and (iv) expansion of supply of agricultural raw materials which are directly
consumed and/or provide inputs to agro-industries. GOP also plans: (i) to
continue encouraging the development of small industries by integrating
measures already established to improve credit facilities with its plans to
improve marketing and quality control services, and to increase sub-contracting
arrangements; 2/ (ii) to encourage joint ventures with foreign firms, especial-
ly in technologically complex industries like engineering and heavy capital
goods; and (iii) to enforce direct control on location of private sector
1/   The contribution of PICIC, IDBP and other local agencies will be
determined by GOP.
2/   Annex 2 para 11 outlines some IBRD proposals to improve credit facilities
to small-scale industries that might develop into an IBRD/IDA project.



-5-
industries. u  Presently, the Provincial Governments clear the location and
sponsorship  f all industrial projects.  This seems unnecessary for projects
involving expansion, balancing and modernization, and PICIC has raised this
matter with GOP. A decision by a GOP committee reviewing this issue is pend-
ing.
2.08      The revival in private sector investment activity anticipated during
the 1973 appraisal for the last loan was slowed by the 1974 nationalization of
commercial banks.  2/ Some improvement took place during FY75 due to the pro-
mulgation of a set of guidelines for compensation to be paid for nationalized
industries, and to qualified assurances by GOP that there would be no more
nationalization of industries. However, the improvement was limited as there
was still some uncertainty among private industrialists over the extent of GOP
support for their activities. In July, 1976, GOP announced the nationalization
of cotton ginning, rice milling, and flour milling on the grounds that this
would eliminate middlemen, stop adulteration of flour, reduce the percentage
of broken rice, and guarantee remunerative prices for paddy and seed cotton.
Some 2,000 units were affected. GOP emphasized that the decision was linked to
rural equity concerns and did not signal a reversal of policy towards the
private industrial sector. However, this should have a deterrent
effect on private investment despite other actions taken by GOP in favor of
the private sector. 3/ The revival of private sector interest in investment
will probably await the next elections (1977), and will depend on future
actions by GOP. GOP is considering clearing up doubts about the borderline
areas where both the private and public sector can operate (such as engineer-
ing and chemicals). This could induce the private sector to invest more in
these areas. Further, GOP is also considering the possibility of joint
ventures between the private and public sectors. GOP expects the role of the
private sector in industrial development to continue to be mainly for export-
oriented industries and those processing indigenous raw materials, an important
role that deserves the fullest support.
2.09      The direct effect of the recent nationalizations on the proposed
project will be marginal. Those sectors account for only about 5% of private
industrial investments and affect relatively small entrepreneurs who do not
1/   Geographically, some 50% of total industrial production is in Sind,
40% in Punjab, almost 10% in NWFP and less than 1% in Baluchistan.
2/   In current prices, private sector investments in medium and large-scale
industries were Rs 789 million in FY73, Rs 576 million in FY74, and
Rs 900 million in FY75, or 47% of total industrial investment in
medium-and large-scale industries. This compares with large- and
medium-scale private sector investments of Rs 1,200 million (87%) in
FY70.
3/   In recent months, GOP took, at PICIC's suggestion, actions to improve
the financial viability of solvent extraction plants, cotton textile
industry, paper industry and export oriented industries (para 5.10).



loom large in PICIC's clientele; only 8 of PICIC's clients out of 257 are
involved and they account for about 1% of PICIC's portfolio. On the other
hand, the decision may have an indirect impact on PICIC in two ways: (i)
demand for PICIC loans may be affected; and (ii) PICIC's collections which
have been improving, may suffer. However, while there may be a reduction in
the loan demand for new projects, the fund requirements for expansion, modern-
ization and balancing should not be greatly affected. PICIC has verified its
pipeline of projects and concluded that investment interest is sufficient to
utilize fully the proposed loan (paras 6.03, 6.04). Further, provided that
PICIC continues its strong action on follow-up, it should be able to achieve
its collection targets, as these were based on a project by project analysis
of the repayment capacity of its clients (para 5.12). Moreover the low level
of private industrial investment is affecting prospects for industrial growth
and this problem should not be exacerbated through unavailablility to PICIC of
adequate resources for lending.
2.10      After the 1972/73 labor reforms, which provided a number of finan-
cial and social benefits for workers, the Industrial Relations Ordinance was
further amended in October 1974 to strengthen GOP's and management's ability
to deal with illegal lockouts and strikes and with go-slows, while maintaining
labor's right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. This has
helped to reduce production losses.
Industrial Finance
2.11      Financial Institutions.  Annex 2 describes the institutional frame-
work for financing industry. PICIC continues to operate in the large and
medium scale private industrial sector, IDBP in the medium and small, and
the recently established NDFC 1/ in the public industrial sector. The main
activity of these three institutions is long-term lending. Commercial banks
provide primarily short term working capital but they may also provide term
financing up to a ceiling fixed by SBP 1/ (the Central Bank) for each bank.
Securities and capital market activities are mainly undertaken by specialized
institutions (TCP and NIT) 2/, although PICIC, IDBP and NDFC can also make
equity investments and underwrite public issues. There is now more overlap
between the lending activities of PICIC and IDBP (medium scale) due to the
reduced involvement of the private sector in large scale operations (para
2.08). However, the two institutions still play a complementary role and the
additional competition is healthy. Availability of long term funds is ade-
quate for the large and medium scale industrial sector, where PICIC operates.
However, the institutional framework for financing small scale industries
needs streamlining (Annex 2 para 6), and the Bank Group is discussing with GOP
and IDBP the means to do so.
1/   National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP).
2/   Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP), National Investment Trust (NIT).



2.12      Interest Rates and Savings Mobilization.  Annex 3 shows the trend
in Pakistan's interest rate structure. After the August 1973 increases,
which included a rise in the liquidity ratio for commercial banks from 30%
to 35%, interest rates were again increased in September 1974 as an anti-
inflationary measure. The SBP discount rate went up from 8% to 9%. The
ceilings on commercial bank lending went up by 1% to 13%.  Fixed deposit
rates were also increased and now range from 8% to 11.75%, compared with
6.75% to 9% in August 1973. However, private savings mobilization declined
from 14.4% of GDP in FY73 to 6.5% in FY75 because of the high inflation rates,
the transfer of resources to the public sector (which has a lower propensity
to save), and the bad investment climate which induced flight of capital
as well as investments in less productive areas (e.g. real estate). Infla-
tion has declined in FY76 and the rate of savings improved (para. 2.03).
2.13      Assuming that GOP limits monetary expansion (projected at 9% during
1976-81), it should be able to keep inflation in line with the international
rate, which is projected at about 8%. With the present interest rate structure,
Pakistan would therefore return to positive real rates of interest; 0-3.5% for
fixed deposits and up to 5% for lending. GOP should pay special attention to
the interest rate structure in view of the need to improve savings rates. 1/
III. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Share Capital and Ownership
3.01      PICIC's initial paid-up capital was Rs 20 million.  It was in-
creased progressively to Rs 66.4 million in 1974. The most recent increase
was made for Loan 961-PAK, primarily to improve PICIC's debt/equity ratio.
This was a rights issue for Rs 10 million in cash during mid-1974 of which
Rs 6.4 million was subscribed; Rs 3.8 million by Pakistani shareholders
(60% of their rights) and Rs 2.6 million by foreign shareholders (71% of
their rights). The depressed stock market explains the discouraging res-
ponse, particularly from Pakistani private shareholders (the issue was at
par while PICIC's share price was below par). The unsubscribed portion,
Rs 3.6 million, was made up by GOP in the form of a subordinated loan, as
originally agreed. 2/ Annex 4 shows PICIC's principal shareholders, including
1/   GOP plans to halve its dependence on external financing from 67% in
FY75 to 33% during FY76-FY81 (para 6.02). As discussed with GOP in
connection with the recent Program Loan, Pakistan plans to keep sav-
ings rates at 2% above the rate of inflation.
2/   GOP also made an additional subordinated loan of Rs 15 million in
mid-1974 that had also been agreed under Loan 961-PAK. PIGIC's
debt/equity ratio thus fell below the 7:1 contractual limit
(para 5.17).



those subscribing to the latest riglhts issue.  As a result of the nationaliza-
tion of commercial banks, the public sector shareholding has increased to
45.4% from 37.9% in 1973. Foreign financial institutions hold 33.1%, Pakistani
private investors 18.0%, and IFC 3.5%.
Organization and Staff
3.02      Board of Directors.  The Board is competent and experienced.  Of
the 20 directors, 8 (including the Chairman, para 3.03) have joined since
1973, but the breadth of background and experience remains basically unchanged
(Annex 5). IFC is now represented on PICIC's Board by Mr. Alexander F. Kirk,
IBRD's Resident Representative in Pakistan. Although empowered to approve
loans below Rs 5 million, 1/ the Executive Committee has not met frequently in
the past. The Board has approved many of these loans, leaving it little time
to discuss policy. The Executive Committee has recently been reorganized and
now consists of the Chairman of the Board, the Managing Director and six other
Board members. PICIC intends to delegate approval of most loans below Rs 5
million and of most administrative Board matters to the Executive Committee to
allow the Board more time to concentrate on policy questions and important
problems.
3.03      Management.  The Managing Directorship has been vacant since November
1975 when Mr. S. Osman Ali became Governor of SBP. Mr. N.M. Uquaili, an ex-
Managing Director of PICIC and an ex-Finance Minister was appointed Chairman
of PICIC's Board in December 1975, and is now also running PICIC's day to day
operations while a new Managing Dire,ztor is sought.   PICIC has agreed to
consult IBRD prior to any changes in or appointments to the position of
PICIC's Managing Director. IBRD would be also consulted on any further
changes in the appointment of the Chairman of the Board. Mr. Uquaili has
already made a positive impact on PICIC's operations. His leadership will be
a key factor in attaining the further improvements anticipated during the
progress of this proposed loan.
3.04      Staff.  As of January 31, [976, PICIC's total staff numbered 287
of whom 119 were professionals. While 33 new professionals were hired during
the last 2 years, 20 left. Some of them were among PICIC's most experienced
staff, including its Deputy Managing Director, Chief of Operations, Chief
Engineer, Deputy Chief Economist, and Chief Law Officer. Many were adequately
replaced with PICIC's own staff. However, the high turnover has weakened
middle management, which will take some time to improve. Nevertheless, the
gap left by the departure of the Deputy Chief Economist, who had become
particularly qualified in promotional, work (paras 4.08 and 4.09), must be
filled promptly. PICIC is already recruiting a qualified industrial economist
for promotional work and expects to make the appointment by the end of the
year.
1/   Loans below Rs 5 million account for some 60% by number and 15%
by amount.



- 9 -
3.05      The high staff turnover was mainly due to increasing demand for
qualified personnel within Pakistan and abroad, including the Middle East. To
attempt to control the turnover, PICIC is to undertake a comparative study of
its staff benefits and working conditions to provide guidelines for attracting
and keeping good officers. The study will be completed within three months
after GOP's Pay Commission report is published. The Commission is reviewing
the staff benefits of GOP financial institutions, including commercial banks,
and expects to issue its report within the next few months.
3.06      Despite the staff turnover, the quality of PICIC's staff remains
high. There are a number of promising younger professionals and PICIC is
still able to attract good new recruits. On the job training remains ade-
quate and PICIC frequently uses external training facilities (including
EDI) for its senior officers. PICIC also collaborated with ADB in setting up
a development banking course at Karachi during 1975 and started recently
a program to improve the training of its engineers, which includes an exchange
program with non-borrowers to give PICIC's engineers better on the job experi-
ence. PICIC's professional staff is now adequate except for follow-up work
where it has been insufficient for routine visits to all projects, although
PICIC has undertaken to correct this problem (para 3.09).
3.07      Organization.  The new Chairman has made a number of organizational
changes (see chart). The most important is the streamlining of follow-up
activities into three departments: Project Implementation, Investment,
and Special Projects. The Project Implementation Department follows-up
projects from sanction to completion, and also attends to letters of credit
and insurance coverage. The Investment Department is responsible for the
follow-up of completed projects and for the management of PICIC's investment
portfolio, including investments in shares and debentures and exercise of
options. The Special Projects Department is responsible for projects facing
serious difficulties or willfully defaulting. 1/ This reorganization permits a
more focussed approach towards follow-up and is justified in view of the
serious arrears problem (para 5.05). However, separation of the above func-
tions, which are somewhat interrelated, may create coordination problems.
Therefore, a senior chief is to be appointed, to whom the heads of these three
Departments would report. Also, the functions of the Internal Audit Depart-
ment are to be expanded to include some evaluation of past operations.
Procedures and Standards
3.08      Appraisal.  PICIC's standards for project appraisal continue to be
satisfactory. Its economic analysis of projects has improved, and in a few
1/   The Special Projects Department now handles 85 out of over 300
companies under supervision.



- 10 -
cases projects have been altered 1/ as a result of preliminary calcula-
tions of economic rates of return (which have only been made for the past
2-1/2 years). The dialogue with PICIC through the subproject review process
for Loan 961-PAK has been beneficial in identifying and correcting some weak-
nesses in PICIC's recent appraisals (e.g. level of contingencies, and incre-
mental analysis).
3.09      Follow-up.  PICIC's follow-up procedures remain satisfactory, the
problem of overdues being largely due to factors beyond its control (paras
5.06-5.10). However, due to staff shortages (para 3.06), routine work, such
as formal follow-up visits (as contrasted with visits mainly for collections)
has suffered. 2/   Therefore, after completing its  program to reschedule
projects in arrears, PICIC will impLement a procedure by which each project is
visited at least once a year, and adequate staff will be allocated for this
purpose. The reorganization of PICIC's follow-up work (para 3.07) should
further improve PICIC's supervision activities.
3.10      Procurement and Disbursement.  PICIC generally requires that pro-
curement under its foreign currency loans be based on at least three quota-
tions from foreign suppliers, and that the final contract be subject to its
approval. This procedure is appropriate to the nature of PICIC's business.
However, to ensure that the best prices are obtained, PICIC's management
has introduced recently a number of measures including international competi-
tive bidding, which will be encouraged in all projects and will be required
for the larger ones involving costs of imported machinery of, say, over $2
million. Procurement for smaller projects will continue, where appropriate,
to be determined through international shopping. Disbursement procedures are
also satisfactory.
Operating Policies
3.11      General.  PICIC's Statement of Policies (Annex 6) was last amended
by its Board in January 1974 with the prior concurrence of IBRD. 3/ Before
1/   A proposal to manufacture low price ceramic wares was changed, on
PICIC's advice, to manufacture medium and fine quality ceramics.
A similar change was made for a project producing coarse yarn.
2/   Recent formal visits to projects are as follows:
In Operation       Under Implementation
No. of       No. of    No. of          No. of
Companies   Visits    Projects         Visits
1973             224          70          79            58
1974             220          73          93            42
1975 (9 mths)   225           51          84            43
3/   There was a subsequent amendment in August 1975 mainly to reflect
earlier developments: (i) the separation of former East Pakistan;
and (ii) a de facto minimum lending limit for foreign currency
loans in underdeveloped areas of Rs 750,000 compared to Rs 1.5 mil-
lion in other areas (Annex 2 para 2).



- 11 -
the amendment, PICIC's exposure limit in any single transaction was $4 mil-
lion and its total commitment in a single enterprise could not exceed the
equivalent of 25% of its net worth or $5 million, whichever was lower. The
amendment permits the approval of transactions and commitments exceding these
limits, but only in exceptional cases after a particularly rigorous project
appraisal and close and explicit scrutiny by PICIC's management and Board.
PICIC has exceeded the exposure limit in 10 cases, although most resulted
automatically from devaluation. In future PICIC hopes to remain within
the limit, since it plans to have more joint ventures with foreign investors
(para 4.04). This intention is also reflected in PICIC's statement of strat-
egy for the next 2-3 years (Annex 7). Other features of PICIC's Strategy
Statement are its intention to: (i) confine itself to the financing of
industries controlled by the private sector; 1/ (ii) increase promotional
activities (para 4.09); (iii) emphasize the financing of projects that are
based on domestic raw materials or on locally fabricated machinery, export
oriented, and projects that would help raise agricultural productivity;
(iv) give preference to financing projects for balancing modernization and
replacement; (v) give priority to improving collections, follow-up, and
solving the staff turnover problem. The Strategy Statement is to be discussed
and approved by PICIC's Board of Directors before the proposed loan becomes
effective.
3.12      Terms of Assistance.  Annex 8 shows PICIC's present interest rates
and other charges. In line with rising interest rates in Pakistan (para
2.12), PICIC's local currency lending rates have gone up from 11.5% and 10% to
13% and 12.5% for projects located in developed and less developed areas, res-
pectively. Loans for locally fabricated machinery are now given at 9.5%. 2/
The foreign currency lending rate has also gone up from 8.5-9.5% to 10.5-11.0%.
Assuming inflation of 8% in the long-run, real lending rates are 2.3%-2.8%
(plus exchange risk) for imported equipment, 1.4% for local equipment, and
1/   PICIC has considered and rejected (at least for the time being) the
possibility of changing its policies to finance the public sector also,
because it anticipates that the private industrial sector will revive
and continue to contribute to Pakistan's economic growth. There is scope
in the private sector to develop new export oriented technologically
complex industries like mineral processing and electronics, which PICIC
hopes to be able to promote (para 4.09) through joint ventures with
foreign investors and/or arrangements for foreign collaboration.
2/   Loans for financing locally fabricated machinery are made through a
special refinance facility by SBP (Annex 14 para 6). Since 1972, the
on-lending rate was 1.5% above the Central Bank rate or 7.5%, but after
the interest rate increases in August, 1973 and September 1974 (para 2.12)
the scheme became uncompetitive with foreign loans. Thus since October
1974 the lending rate for locally fabricated machinery has been 1% below
the foreign currency lending rate.



- 12 -
4.2%-4.6% for other local currency loans (land, buildings, etc.) These levels
are adequate, but there is room for a further increase of about 1% so as to
improve PICIC's profitability and the interest rate structure. This matter
will be taken up during the basic economic mission in the context of Paki-
stan's overall interest rate structure.
3.13      Previously, the penalty charge on overdues was 2% above the basic
loan interest rate. The increases in the Central Bank rate and thus in the
commercial bank lending rates made arrears on borrowings from PICIC less
costly than commercial bank borrowLngs. Accordingly, PICIC increased the
penalty charge during 1974 to 4% above the interest rate on the loan or
above the Central Bank rate, whichever was higher. The new charge provides
a flexible mechanism that will adjust automatically to changes in the Central
Bank rate. However, it applies onlLy to new loans, since past loans are
governed by previous agreements unless rescheduled.
Relations with Government and Business Community
3.14      Relations between GOP and PICIC continue to be close.  PICIC is
represented on 12 important GOP comLmittees concerned with industry. GOP has
continued to provide PICIC with bot;h foreign and local resources, including
two new subordinated loans since 1973. PICIC's Board includes a nominee of
GOP and a nominee of the Provincial Governments. Though operating auto-
nomously, PICIC functions within the framework of GOP policies.
3.15      PICIC's relations with other financial institutions remain general-
ly good although not as close as before nationalization of the commercial
banks. Commercial banks were slow in honoring guarantees enforced by PICIC
that had been given while the banks were in private hands. This problem has
by now been solved (para 5.07). Several banks and insurance companies are
PICIC shareholders and represented on its Board. PICIC's relations with its
clients have remained good.
IV. RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS
Resource Mobilization
4.01      PICIC's resources totalled Rs 5.8 billion as of December 31, 1975.
Foreign currency resources (Rs 4.9 billion) accounted for 85% of the total
while domestic resources provided the balance of Rs 853 million. Annex 9
summarizes its resource position.
4.02      Of PICIC's total foreign exchange resources of $493 million, nine
IBRD loans account for 43%, untied loans (ADB and KFW) for 17%, other bila-
teral sources for 23%, and several suppliers' credits for 16%. The remain-
ing 1% comes from the portion of the share capital paid in foreign currency.



- 13 -
PICIC's past performance as a mobilizer of resources has been relatively
good. While most of the bilateral/suppliers credits were arranged by GOP,
PICIC arranged $29 million in private bank loans and private suppliers'
credits. 1/ However, under present conditions, PICIC will probably not be
able to mobilize independently foreign commercial resources for some time, and
it will therefore have to depend on allocations from GOP, IBRD, ADB, and KfW.
Annex 10 gives details of PICIC's past foreign borrowings.
4.03      Of total rupee resources of Rs 853 million, share capital and
reserves account for Rs 301 million (35%), State Bank lines of credit Rs 325
million (38%), a USAID loan Rs 30 million (4%), GOP loans Rs 22 million (3%)
and PICIC's own debentures Rs 175 million (20%) (Annex 11). PICIC's domestic
resources over the next few years are expected to be severely strained (para
6.05). At the moment, its prospects of obtaining further funds in the mar-
ket are limited, due to the still depressed economic conditions. Neither is
there any potential demand for debentures at any interest rate PICIC could
offer. Most of the demand for debentures comes from institutional investors
such as commercial banks, which would have difficulty in purchasing PICIC's
debentures now that their reserve ratio requirements have increased (para 2.12).
Thus PICIC will have to depend on GOP for local currency funds in the fore-
seeable future.
4.04      Since 1973 PICIC has approved joint venture projects with other
local financial institutions involving purchase of debentures and underwriting
for Rs 6.0 million (7 projects). Participation by the other institutions was
Rs 52.0 million. Since inception, 2/ PICIC's involvement in such activities
has amounted to Rs 93.8 million (39 projects), with participation by other
financial institutions of Rs 267.3 million. Up to September 30, 1975, PICIC's
involvement in joint ventures with foreign investors was Rs 510.7 million for
33 projects (Rs 82.0 million from 1974 to September 30, 1975 for 4 projects).
Participation by foreign institutions was Rs 554.2 million. 2/ In view of its
intention to promote projects that are more complex technologically (para
4.09) and to remain within its normal exposure limit, PICIC plans to increase
the number of projects with foreign investment and collaboration.
4.05      Since January 1973, PICIC's approvals of loans, equity investment
and underwriting, have accounted for about 59% of the total investment in these
projects. This means that every rupee invested by PICIC has generated another
0.70 rupees of additional investments. The relatively high proportion of PICIC
1/   Loans from National and Grindlays Bank ($5.6 million), and United
Bank of London ($1.7 million). GOP is committed only to provide
convertibility without carrying any credit risk. Private supplier's
credit from UK ($16.6 million), Petromim Saudi Arabia ($3.5 million)
and Toyomenka, Japan ($1.3 million). These were obtained prior to 1972.
2/   West Pakistan only, and up to September 30, 1975.



- 14 -
financing is mainly because of increased costs of imported machinery after
the devaluation. 1/ In some cases, PICIC financed over 60% of project
costs, which is excessive.   PICIC now follows the policy of attempting to
maximize the sponsor's contribution and insists that normally debt financing
in a project not exceed 60% of the project cost.
Resource Allocation
4.06      Overall Operations.  Annex 12 gives a summary of PICIC's loan
operations through December 31, 1975. Gross loan approvals were Rs 494
million in 1973, Rs 489 million in 1974 and Rs 315 million in 1975. The
reduction in 1975 was because a Board Meeting scheduled for December 1975
was not held due to the change in management (para 3.03). Otherwise
approvals would have slightly exceeded Rs 400 million, still below the level
of the previous 2 years. Commitments and disbursements lagged behind appro-
vals due mainly to the bad investment climate, which even induced cancella-
tions of earlier commitments in 1974. However, commitments increased from
Rs 87 million in 1973 to Rs 352 milLion in 1974, and after the fast growth
in 1974, stabilized at Rs 290 million in 1975. Disbursements rose from Rs 54
million in 1973 to Rs 320 million in 1975. Due to lack of domestic resources
and the depressed state of the stock market, underwriting and equity opera-
tions (Annex 13) were only Rs 7.7 million during 1973-1975. PICIC's disburse-
ments in the period 1973-1975 accounted for about 21% of private investment
in the large and medium scale industrial sector compared to about 17% pre-
viously.
4.07      Annex 14 analyzes in some detail the characteristics of PICIC's
recent operations. By sectors, cott:on and other textiles accounted for 36%
of approvals during 1974 and 1975, compared with 69% during 1973. Sugar
accounted for 18% and 16%, respectively. The proportional decrease in tex-
tiles financing was offset by increases in hotels, ceramics, glass, leather
and rubber projects promoted by PICI]C in an effort to diversify its portfolio.
The average size of loans has been about $1.3 million for the past 3 years.
There has been some improvement in the geographical diversification of lend-
ing, with more activity in NWFP, and PICIC has further diversified its
clientele, and assisted newcomers tco industry. The projects recently fi-
nanced should make a useful contribution to the economy (para 4.10).
4.08      Promotional Activities.  EICIC's promotional activities include
efforts to achieve a more diversified regional distribution of its port-
folio and of its clientele. In addition, PICIC is concerned with its
heavy exposure in the traditional industries, such as cotton spinning
and sugar. Since July 1973 its Economic and Research Deparment has
1/   Although it is also explained by lower corporate profitability and
by the bad investment climate, which sometimes induced entre-
preneurs to attempt to minimize their risk capital contribution.



- 15 -
conducted a number of studies, most of which have resulted in the promo-
tion of projects. 1/ PICIC also commissioned a comprehensive survey of the
hotel industry, conducted by a local consulting firm.  As a result, it has
approved loans to three new hotels. In addition, with PICIC's help, the
sugar industry has started to use by-products such as molasses and bagasse.
Other by-products industries developed by PICIC include new pesticides capacity
to use surplus chlorine in a caustic soda plant, and new capacity for manufac-
ture of glues and gums from tannery wastes. PICIC also created a promotional
cell in its Project Development Department which has been working on determin-
ing the technical and market feasibility of manufacturing chemicals presently
being imported for use in the textile sector. A Promotion Committee to coor-
dinate the promotional work of the Project Development and Economic Depart-
ments, with participation by the operational departments, was also created
recently.
4.09      PICIC's recent promotional work has been useful, but has not helped
much in diversifying its portfolio by amount. The studies have yielded
projects which are relatively small whereas textile and sugar projects are
quite large, 2/ and there might be opportunities for future investment in
them. Considering the potential field of diversification was narrowed by
the nationalizations and the bad investment climate over the last two years,
PICIC's promotional efforts are creditable. However, it should attempt to
promote larger projects 3/ such as mineral processing and electronics where
there is potential for export, and which can be promoted in the private
sector. This would help PICIC attain better portfolio diversification.
PICIC plans to commission studies in these areas to look into the promotional
feasibility and to determine whether the ventures would be justified for
Pakistan in an economic and financial sense.
Development Impact
4.10      During the period 1973 to September 30, 1975 PICIC approved loans
and acquired shares and debentures amounting to Rs 1.1 billion, accounting
for 59% of the total fixed investment in these projects. PICIC has estimated
1/   PICIC conducted market studies on the engineering, maize starch, leather,
fruit juice, cigarette, ceramics, sanitary wares, terry towels, embroidered
cloth, laundry soap, and cotton knitwear industries, and as a result a
number of projects have either been sanctioned or are under preparation
including: maize starch, cigarettes, leather, soap, hoisery, towels,
tanneries, and shoe manufacturing.
2/   Except for hotels where a number of projects resulted from a study
commissioned by PICIC, although after these projects are completed
there will be no additional market opportunities for hotels.
3/   In its early years, PICIC was instrumental in developing many sectors,
for example, cement, paper, and hardboard manufacturing.



- 16 -
the net annual foreign exchange earnings/savings by these projects, when
completed, at about $80 million and the contribution to net value added at
about Rs 630 million. The estimated additional direct employment generated
by them is about 15,500. The average cost of fixed investment per job created
is therefore $12,000, indicating a somewhat lower capital intensity than the
average for World Bank Group assist;ed DFCs of about $18,000. Annex 15 shows
projected rates of return on projects financed by PICIC. Out of the 64 new and
expansion projects financed between July 1973 and September 1975, ex-ante IFRR
was from 11% to 33% (average 17%). For 41 of these, the IERR ranged from
10% to 50% (average 22%). PICIC has also continued to make qualitative
contributions to industrial development, such as assistance in project
preparation (particularly newcomers), industrial studies and other promo-
tional activities (paras 4.07, 4.08) and to industrial policy formulation
(para 3.14).
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
General
5.01      Because PICIC's foreign currency liabilities arising from its
operations in Bangladesh had not at that time been settled, the last IBRD
loan was advanced to GOP to establish a special fund which was administered
by PICIC. The recent arrangements between GOP and PICIC (described below)
have removed this obstacle to a direct loan to PICIC. Although PICIC has
other financial problems, it is taking the measures outlined below to over-
come them, and these are satisfactory. Accordingly a direct loan to PICIC
has been proposed for this project.
Assets and Liabilities in Bangladesh
5.02      Background.  At the 1971 secession of Bangladesh PICIC's portfolio
in that area amounted to about $73 raillion in foreign currency loans outstand-
ing, 1/ and Rs 82 million in rupee 'oans and equity investments (net).  To-
gether these represented about 30% of PICIC's total assets and about three
times it share capital and reserves. Although PICIC lost control of these
assets, it retained the liabilities incurred to finance them. PICIC was
unable to service the foreign currency liabilities and GOP agreed to assist
under the arrangements described in para 5.03. On the other hand, GOP dis-
claimed any responsibility for the rupee assets in Bangladesh, although it
agreed to defer collection of Rs 82 million in subordinated loans to PICIC
until after 1993. PICIC therefore made a provision to cover the possible loss
of its rupee assets in Bangladesh. GOP recently agreed to relieve PICIC of
the risk of possible loss of these rupee assets, which are now deemed to have
been financed from the GOP loans (para 5.04).
1/   Some $57 million (PICIC figures) was due to IBRD, of which $51 million
was subsequently transferred to Bangladesh.



- 17 -
5.03      When Loan 961-PAK was made, the arrangements between GOP and PICIC
regarding its foreign currency Bangladesh liabilities were as follows:
(i) GOP would service these liabilities for the time being 1/ although PICIC
would be liable to GOP for the funds so provided; and (ii) GOP would not
require PICIC to repay the amounts GOP serviced until after all foreign
loans obtained by PICIC after 1972 had been repaid, or until PICIC recovered
its assets in Bangladesh, whichever was earlier. The weaknesses of these
arrangements were that: (i) it was not clear how long GOP would continue to
service these liabilities; and (ii) the amounts provided by GOP constituted a
debt, and it was not clear whether GOP would require PICIC eventually to repay
it, and if so, on what terms and conditions. As of December 31, 1975, PICIC's
outstanding liabilities to foreign creditors for Bangladesh projects were
about $11 million. In addition, PICIC owed GOP some Rs 240 million for past
GOP servicing of Bangladesh related foreign liabilities, including interest
and exchange differential. 2/ Further, PICIC could lose Rs 82 million for the
ruppe assets in Bangladesh. These amounts totalling Rs 432 million were then
1.75 times PICIC's net worth. Clearly, PICIC was not in a position to absorb
such a loss.
5.04.     After extensive discussions, GOP is now prepared:  (i) to continue
reimbursing PICIC for the debt servicing of the foreign currency Bangladesh
liabilities which are still outstanding in PICIC's books for as long as this
is required consistent where appropriate with the debt rescheduling agreements
GOP has finalized with some of its creditors; and (ii) not to require PICIC to
repay it for the reimbursements already made and to be made to PICIC for debt
servicing of PICIC's foreign currency Bangladesh liabilities, nor for the rupee
liabilities to GOP allocated to PICIC's rupee assets in Bangladesh, until
PICIC recovers its assets in Bangladesh and if so, only to the extent of such
a recovery. 3/ In substance, this means that PICIC will never have to bear
any loss from this problem. GOP and PICIC have signed an agreement along
those lines (Annex 16).
Quality of Portfolio
5.05      Loans.  Annex 17 shows the development of loan overdues from 1969
to 1975. Towards the end of 1975, 43% of the companies with outstanding
debts to PICIC were in arrears of more than 3 months. Principal and interest
in arrears for more than 3 months totalled Rs 457 million on December 1975
1/   In practice PICIC paid first and was then reimbursed by GOP.
2/   Thus, PICIC's debt burden for the foreign loans it made in Bangladesh
totalled Rs 350 million excluding interest on the $11 million not yet
serviced. The $11 million included some $2.4 million of liabilities
to IBRD which were not taken up by Bangladesh under the Consolidation
Credit.
3/   A similar arrangement has been made for IDBP.



- 18 -
compared with Rs 308 million in 1973, Rs 235 million in 1972 and Rs 4 mil-
lion in 1969. The total principal outstanding on these loans was about
Rs 1 billion or 55% of the outstanding loan portfolio in 1975, compared with
60% in 1973, 64% in 1972, and 2% in 1969. Thus, there has been a substantial
increase in overdues, although the proportion of the portfolio affected by
them has remained at about the same level since 1973 and the number of de-
faulting companies has declined.
5.06      PICIC's arrears position, which was previously excellent, began to
deteriorate in 1971 and more so in 1972 due to the economic recession, the
loss to many firms of the traditional East Pakistan market, and the May 1972
rupee devaluation, which more than doubled the debt service burden of its
foreign exchange borrowers. Some improvement took place during 1973 and
early 1974 as firms adjusted to the changed circumstances. However, the up-
turn stagnated afterwards, 1/ as the effects of the oil crisis, the general
rise in price levels including labor costs, and the crisis in the textile
industry (para 2.05) began to be strongly felt during the second half of
1974. In addition, the impact of tnie nationalization of commercial banks in
early 1974 on the investment climate adversely affected PICIC's collection
performance. PICIC's bargaining power with is clients was reduced, since
clients were not as interested in neaw loans as before, and some clients became
reluctant to tie up further funds in their industries. 2/ Further, PICIC's
clients that were nationalized did not repay satisfactorily, including those
which were performing well. These borrowers accounted for 10% of PICIC's out-
standing loan portfolio, but 16% of its arrears as of December 1975. Accord-
ingly IBRD asked that for the public sector companies GOP and PICIC should
agree on a repayment schedule for existing overdues and a guarantee arrange-
ment for future overdues. 3/ By mid-June, 1976, of the 14 of these companies
in arrears, PICIC had collected the overdues from 4, finalized rescheduling
with 4, and agreed, but not yet finalized rescheduling with another 2. It had
not yet negotiated with the remaining 4 for various justifiable reasons
(companies were being merged or plants closed). GOP and PICIC have prepared a
timetable to settle the remaining problems and PICIC will keep IBRD informed
on a quarterly basis. Also GOP has indicated that it will ensure repayment
within 12 months of any future default by any public sector company, including
the ones recently nationalized.
1/   While arrears continued to increase, the gap between collections and
amount falling due was being narrowed. Total collections (principal
and interest) over amounts falling due were 78% in 1971, 42% in 1972,
69% in 1973, 65% in 1974 and 68% in 1975. Total collections over amounts
falling due plus overdues were 33% in 1972, 43% in 1973, 36% in 1974 and
33% in 1975.
2/   For example, although the textile sector made good profits in 1973,
their large dividend payments during 1974, when they were already having
difficulties, illustrates the entrepreneurs' fear of nationalization.
3/   PICIC had little bargaining power to collect from these clients because
it cannot take over the assets of a GOP owned company, and they do not
now borrow from PICIC.



- 19 -
5.07      From 1973 to 1975 PICIC took a number of actions to improve its col-
lections. It increased penalty charges, enforced bank guarantees, rescheduled
loans where appropriate, issued numerous legal notices, and imposed changes in
some projects (for example, new management). Some were unsuccessful. The
increased penalty charges could only apply to new loans and to old loans after
rescheduling, while the nationalized commercial banks did not honor their
guarantees (para 3.14). IBRD therefore asked GOP to arrange for commercial
banks to honor their guarantees, and they have paid some Rs 40 million since
December 31, 1975. The problem has now been solved, as all PICIC claims have
been cleared.
5.08      Most of the 1973 and 1974 reschedulings were expected to provide an
interim relief to the client, and were made before the economic and political
conditions which followed could be predicted. Thus, the reschdulings were in
many cases not adequately tied to subsequent internal cash generations, but
involved mainly a shift in payments due by one or two years and many of the
clients whose loans were rescheduled again fell into arrears. 1/ A number of
PICIC's clients still need further reschedulings. IBRD asked PICIC to pre-
pare a detailed plan for each project in arrears. The plan is summarized in
Annex 19, and IBRD will be kept informed of any major changes during its
implementation that appear likely to influence PICIC's viability.
5.09      The numerous legal notices issued by PICIC were ineffective.  They
were not followed by strong action until 1975, when PICIC took two relatively
large willful defaulters to court. 2/ Its new Chairman intends to issue legal
notices only when followed by court action. Legal proceedings take a long
time. Thus, such action is both costly and slow, and is used when all other
means have been exhausted, or in selected cases to demonstrate to other
willful defaulters PICIC's firm intention to collect. Recovery by court
action may become easier in the future when a proposed new law, mainly in-
tended to speed up court decisions in this type of dispute, is enacted. 3/
GOP has confirmed that PICIC's dues will be included under it.
5.10      Annex 18 shows the characteristics of PICIC arrears as of September
30, 1975. The textiles sector, which accounted for 45% of PICIC's outstanding
loan portfolio, was responsible for 50% of the arrears of more than 3 months
at that date. Some 69% of the net increase in arrears 4/ from June 1973 to
1/   Annex 17 footnote.
2/   Only 11 cases involving mortgage suits-or liquidation proceedings
filed by PICIC are pending in the courts. The amount involved is
Rs 69 million of which the 2 cases mentioned above involve Rs 46 mil-
lion (partial payment has already been made in one case).
3/   PICIC's Chairman has proposed to GOP a number of additional legislative
measures for dealing with defaults.
4/   Taking into account sectors where arrears declined (see Annex 18
footnote 3).



- 20 -
September 1975 is in the textiles sector. PICIC's portfolio prospects are
thus directly related to the performance of this sector. The recent poor
performance by PICIC's textile clients is due mainly to: (i) weak export
markets because of the international recession; (ii) past GOP policies which
induced losses during 1974; (iii) high dividend payments during that year due
to fear of nationalization; and (iv) willful defaults resulting from the
investment climate. However, due to the large accumulated overdues many
of PICIC's loans in this sector require rescheduling. The sugar industry
accounts for 18% of the increase in arrears from June 1973 to September 1975.
The problems are mainly due to external factors such as the 1973 floods and
the bad cane crop in 1974 resulting from lack of water. Although GOP controls
sugar prices, the industry's long-term prospects are good. The engineering
industry accounts for 16% of the increase in overdues. Over 80% of the
arrears in this industry were by one public sector company which was doing
well and was able to repay. Another public sector cement company which was
also doing well accounted for over 50% of arrears in the cement, ceramics and
glass industrial category. PICIC already agreed on a repayment schedule with
these two companies. Overall, PICIC's portfolio prospects appear satisfactory.
Its future performance will depend mainly on the general economic/political
situation (para 5.06), and in particular on developments in the textile
sector. 1/
5.11      Based on a project by project review of the West Pakistan portfolio,
PICIC's auditors have determined that: provisions for possible losses should
be increased by Rs 46 million to Rs 66 million. Their review covered the
adequacy of PICIC's collateral (all loans are well secured), the long-term
repayment capacity of the clients, and the saleability of the assets. PICIC
has increased its provisions to Rs 72 million as of December 31, 1975, 2/
and its auditors are therefore satisfied that it is well covered against
1/   PICIC's Chairman also has been advising GOP on policies to be followed for
certain industries including solvent extraction plants and the paper
industry, both of which were suffering from structural problems (the
reduction in PICIC's arrears in the paper industry is due to rescheduling
in a large problem project). GOP, on PICIC's advice, has liberalized
import requirements by solvent extraction plants, reduced excise duties
for spinning of synthetic fibres to reduce the impact of the shortage of
cotton during 1976, increased custom duties for the import of paper,
and increased income tax rebates for exports.
2/   Total provisions are therefore about 4% of the outstanding loan and
equity portfolio. However, the real value of the provisions is actually
twice the amount shown because if a write-off were made, about half of it
would be returned as tax savings (provisions are not tax deductible but
write-offs are). In addition to these provisions PICIC had not taken
into income about Rs 90 million (interest) up to December 1975 which is
also a form of provision for doubtful loans.



21 -
losses (para 5.19). PICIC will continue increasing its provisions in the
future by setting aside at least 10% of annual net profits for this purpose.
PICIC has also confirmed that these reserves will always be maintained at
such levels as is considered appropriate by PICIC's external auditors.
5.12      The above proposals (paras 5.06 to 5.11) should help improve the
condition of PICIC's portfolio, as should the reorganization of its follow-up
work (para 3.07). PICIC's new Chairman is now putting considerable pressure on
defaulters, and has achieved a creditable improvement in collections, as shown
below:
1973      1974       1975       1976
----------- Rs million -----------
Seven months dues
(excluding overdues)                        342.8      348.1     356.5      352.7
Seven months collections /a                   222.6      213.8      206.0      260.1
Seven months collections/dues                  65%        61%        58%        74%
Total year collections/dues                    69%        65%        68%        80% (Proj
/a   During the seven months ending July 31, 1976, collections were Rs 260
million, of which Rs 43 million was from commercial banks on account
of guarantees and Rs 33 million from public sector companies. The
corresponding figures for 1975 were Rs 206 million, of which Rs 5
million from bank guarantees and Rs 19 million from the public sector,
and for 1974, Rs 214 million, Rs 22 million, and Rs 29 million,
respectively.
As shown above, collections, have increased by 26% during 1976 compared with
1975. The reason why the ratio of collections to dues for the total year is
higher than for the seven month period is that the bulk of PICIC's billings are
made in January and July, and as of the end of July, much of that month's bil-
lings are not yet recovered. Actually, between January and June of 1976, PICIC
collected 100% of new billings, compared with around 70% from January to June
in the previous 3 years. Thus, arrears did not increase during the first half
of 1976, and actually declined due to reschedulings. However, as the condition
of the textile sector will improve slowly, the gap between collections and
amounts falling due is not expected to be closed until 1978 and thus arrears
would not start reducing (without reschedulings) until then (para 6.07).
PICIC has set targets for its future collections, based on the project by
project analysis of its portfolio (para 5.08), and these would form the
basis for monitoring performance during loan supervision. 1/
1/   The targets set are given in Annex 19.  See also para 6.07 footnote
1 for projected collection ratios.



- 22 -
5.13       Equity investments.  As of September 30, 1975, PICIC's equity port-
folio was Rs 76.7 million at cost and consisted of shares in 90 companies.
Of these, 37 representing Rs 37.5 million were then paying dividends, 24 (Rs
14.7 million) were making profits but not paying dividends and the remaining
29 (Rs 24.5 million) were suffering losses. The aggregate market value of
these investments as of September 30, 1975 was Rs 80 million, slightly above
cost. The dividend yield averaged 9% - 12% before 1970, and improved from
4.5% in 1972, to 7.4% in 1973, and 10.9% in 1974 (reflecting mainly large
dividends by textile companies in 1974; para 5.06 footnote). It declined to
7.7% in the first 9 months of 1975. The prospects for PICIC's equity portfolio
are as discussed above for loans, since PICIC has generally made equity invest-
ments in companies to which it has also lent.
Liquidity
5.14       Poor collections created serious liquidity problems for PICIC.
PICIC was not in a position to service all its debt and had to borrow from
SBP for this purpose. Drawals from SBP totalled Rs 129 million up to December
31, 1975, out of which Rs 125 million fell due during 1976. As PICIC will not
have the funds to pay, this has been rescheduled. Additional borrowings of
about Rs 150 million will be needed to cover projected collection shortfalls
through 1980 (para 6.05). For this purpose, PICIC has already been assured
these funds from SBP and GOP has confirmed the rescheduling of the existing
SBP debt and the availability of additional SBP funds as needed on adequate
terms. 1/
Financial Structure
5.15       Profitability.  Annex 20 shows income statements from 1970 to
1975. Net profits after tax (before provisions) increased from Rs 34.3
million in 1972 to Rs 36.1 million in 1973 and Rs 38.0 million in 1974 but
declined to Rs 29.4 million in 1975. The relatively slow growth during 1972-
1974 was due to reduced income from loans, a result of low disbursements.
The decline in 1975 is because PICIC, on the recommendation of the auditors,
did not accrue income on nineteen relatively large problem accounts. 2/
However, after tax profitability as a percentage of average total assets
remains adequate at 1.3% during 1975 compared with 1.7% in 1974. Adminis-
trative expenses remain under control at 0.5% of average total assets. PICIC
declared a cash dividend of 12% in 1973 and of 12.5% in 1974 and 1975. The
latter represented a satisfactory profit plough-back, although the dividend
pay-out was 28%, compared with only 20% in the previous two years.
1/   The proposed terms are discussed in para 6.05.
2/   The interest chargeable to these 19 sub-borrowers (over Rs 20 million
during 1975) will be kept in a suspense account.



- 23 -
5.16      Revaluation Surplus.  On the devaluation of the rupee in May 1972,
a net exchange revaluation surplus of Rs 100 million accrued to PICIC. This
represented a non-operational profit, because its foreign exchange assets at
devaluation were greater than its foreign currency liabilities. The bulk, Rs
75 million, resulted from PICIC's meeting its foreign debt obligations as they
fell due at the pre-devaluation rate, while som. sub-borrowers were in arrears
with their repayments to PICIC. The Rs 25 million balance represents PICIC's
foreign currency cash balances held with foreign banks. The Rs 75 million was
reduced to Rs 66 million on the devaluation of the US dollar in 1973. Of
this, Rs 44 million has been collected and realized as income (and passed
through the profit and loss account, resulting in a gain of about Rs 20 mil-
lion after taxes), and the balance of Rs 22 million remains as a revaluation
reserve not yet taken to income. Based on the contractual arrangements with
its sub-borrowers, PICIC is confident that it will have no problem collecting
this.
5.17      Capital Structure.  Annex 21 shows PICIC's balance sheets as of
December 31, 1970-1975. After the 1974 share capital increase and subor-
dinated loan, the long-term debt/equity ratio (contractual definition) im-
proved to 5.9:1 although it increased to 6.6:1 in 1975 due to the additional
provisions made for doutful accounts (para 5.11). However, the real capital
structure (counting subordinated loans as debt, not equity) has improved and
the long-term debt/equity ratio has gone down from 9.4:1 as of end-1974 to
7.3:1 as of end-1975. 1/ Reserves and provisions are now 13% of the loan and
equity portfolio, compared with 9% in 1974. Provisions account, for 4% of the
portfolio compared with 1% previously. However, the existing contractual debt/
equity limit of 7:1 should remain unchanged in view of the serious arrears
problem. GOP intends to provide subordinated loans as needed to keep the
debt/ equity ratio within this limit. Given PICIC's present financial con-
dition, it will be difficult to attract investors, so additional share capital
increases cannot be expected. Although subordinated loans are not as good a
solution as share capital, this is the only alternative. 2/ Therefore, GOP
has untertaken to provide subordinated loans for as long as PICIC is not in
a position to raise share capital.
5.18      Market Quotation.  The book value of PICIC's own shares as of
December 31, 1975 was 3.7 times the par value of Rs 10. The market price
1/   This is because Rs 82 million of subordinated loans have been
allocated to PICIC's rupee assets in Bangladesh on which PICIC can
bear no loss (para 5.04). Thus the provision for the possible loss of
the rupee assets has been released, and the subordinated loan transferred
to PICIC's Bangladesh liabilities.
2/   In any event, as the present level of subordinated loans vis-a-vis
equity is not very high, additional subordinated loans can be justi-
fied. From the projections (para 6.08) there might be no need for
further subordinated loans, but as PICIC is close to the limit their
availability should be ensured.



- 24 -
during 1975 ranged from Rs 8.65 to Rs 12.50, and was Rs 9.45 on December
31, 1975, or 25% of book value. Earnings per share during 1975 were Rs 4.42
and the average price/earnings ratio was about 2.3.
5.19      Audit.  A.F. Ferguson and Company, and Rahim Jam and Company con-
tinue to be PICIC's auditors.  In their 1973 and 1974 reports, the auditors
maintained exactly the same qualification as in 1972 and were again "unable
to express an opinion on the adequacy of the provision made for doubtful
accounts". The auditors were expected to distinguish between the adequacy of
the provisions for possible losses on PICIC's Pakistan and Bangladesh port-
folios. However, they felt reluctant to change the previous all emcompassing
qualification while the Pakistan arrears were not improving. They were
therefore asked to make a supplement:ary audit during 1975, and on that basis
the increase in provisions for the FPakistan portfolio was determined (para
5.11). Now that the Bangladesh liabilities problem has been resolved, PICIC
has obtained a clean certificate for the 1975 accounts, for both the Pakistan
and Bangladesh (subject to the formalization of the arrangements discussed in
para 5.04 which was done subsequently) portfolios. The quality and timeliness
of submission of the audit reports are satisfactory.
Summary Assessment
5.20      PICIC's financial position has improved since the last loan was
made in 1973. It will not bear any loss from its Bangladesh foreign liabi-
lities, and the expected loss of its Bangladesh rupee assets will not occur.
Its capital structure has improved, and its debt/equity ratio is below the
contractual limit. Profitability has declined, but remains adequate. The
principal remaining problem is the condition of its portfolio. Although
provisions should be sufficient to cover probable losses, the substantial in-
crease in arrears also affects PICIC's liquidity. However, GOP has undertaken
provide the necessary funds to cover PICIC's requirements over the next few
years. An improvement in collections is essential for the long term enhancement
of its portfolio and liquidity. The actions that GOP and PICIC are taking
are evidence of their intention to solve the problem. PICIC's new management
has shown its capability, and its eff-orts to date have produced an improve-
ment in collections that is likely to continue. Although PICIC still has a
number of problems, the prospects of overcoming them now appear to be con-
siderably more promising than they were a year or so ago. Taking all these
factors into account, PICIC can now be considered as creditworthy for a direct
loan.
VI. PROSPECTS
General Outlook
6.01      The low level of private investment in the last few years has af-
fected prospects for future industrial growth. There is need to increase



- 25 -
production capacity in agriculture and industry, domestic resource mobili-
zation, and the growth of exports. The proposed loan will help fulfill
these needs. GOP has projected that value added in the large and medium-scale
industrial sector will grow from around Rs 14 billion in FY76 to Rs 28 billion
in FY81 or by 15% in current prices. The following table indicates GOP's
present views on levels of industrial investment for the Fifth Five Year
Plan under preparation (current prices, Rs million):
4th Plan (Actual)   5th Plan (Expected)
(FY71 - FY75)          (FY77 - FY81)
Amount          %    Amount             %
Large and medium-scale
Public                        2,677         30.7  26,500            65.4
Private                       4,547         52.2  10,500            25.9
Subtotal                7,224         82.9  37,000            91.5
Small-scale
Public                           80          1.0      500            1.3
Private                       1,402         16.1   3,000             7.4
Subtotal                1,482          17.1   2,219            8.7
TOTAL                   8,706         100.0  40,500          100.0
From the above, private industrial investment is expected to comprise 33%
of the total over the next 5 years compared with 67% in the previous five
years. However, excluding one large public sector project the (Karachi
Steel Mill; Rs 14 billion) the private sector would account for about 50%
of the total investment. GOP expects some 36% of private sector invest-
ment to be in textiles, 16% in other agro-industries (mainly sugar),
18% in fertilizers, 5% in chemicals and 5% in engineering. This sub-sectoral
allocation is largely in line with PICIC's tentative commitment program over
the next two years. 1/ However, such a large increase in private investment
1/   Except fertilizers, which are not in PICIC's program, although PICIC
hopes also to be involved in this sector. PICIC's commitment program is
based on loans (sanctioned but not yet committed) which are likely to be
implemented, and on solid applications in the pipeline. It expects its
involvement in textiles to be mainly for balancing, modernization and
replacement.



- 26 -
may be optimistic. 1/ There may be financing constraints (para 6.02) and
investment interest by the private sector has not yet revived. The ex-
tent to which the revival will take place will depend on GOP's attitudes
towards the role of the private sector (para 2.08) and on GOP's policies on
tariffs, pricing and other elements affecting profitability. Plan realization
will also depend on the extent to which GOP is successful in attracting
foreign investment (para 2.07) to obtain access to technology and foreign
markets.
6.02      GOP has assumed that domestic savings will improve from 6% of GDP
in FY75 to 16% in FY81. This would reduce the proportion of overall financ-
ing from external sources from 67% in FY75 to 19% in FY81 (33% average for
FY76-FY81). The marginal savings rate is assumed at 26%. GOP expects that
the sponsor's own savings and the capital markets will provide Rs 3.7 bil-
lion, or 27% of funds needed for the total private industrial investment
(including small-scale), an ambitious objective. PICIC would account for
Rs 2.4 billion, or 18% (23% of large and medium-scale private investment).
The balance would come mainly from commercial banks, foreign investment and
other foreign loans, and from IDBP.
Business Forecasts
6.03      Against this background, Ainnex 22 shows the forecast of PICIC's
approvals, commitments and disbursements for 1976-80. Approvals of foreign
currency loans are expected to be Rs 300 million in 1976 and to increase
thereafter by 15% per annum in nominal terms. 2/ Approvals of local currency
loans and equity investments for the five year period are expected at Rs
360 million, or about 15% of total sanctions, the same level as in 1975.
Total commitments are expected to grow by 14% annually and to be Rs 2.4
billion during the period. 3/ Disbursements are expected to total Rs 1.7
billion or about 16% of the private sector investment in large and medium
industries projected in the Fifth Plan. This is lower than the Rs 2.4 bil-
lion expected by GOP. Assuming 70% of GOP's target is achieved, PICIC would
1/   Despite the estimate that over the next 5 years, private investment
in large and medium industry would average Rs 2.1 billion per year,
compared with an average of Rs 1.2 billion during FY70-FY72 (when
prices were much lower), and Rs 755 million in FY73-75 (when invest-
ment was unduly low).
2/   Applications pending as of end-1975 for foreign exchange loans
were of the order of Rs 800 million, but since investment climate is
still somewhat subdued, and on the basis of a project by project review
of applications pending and expected new applications, foreign currency
approvals for 1976 and 1977 (Rs 645 million) appear realistic. There-
after, depending on economic conditions and developments in the invest-
ment climate, approvals might be higher than projected.
3/   Some 30% of commitments over the next 2 years are expected to be
for textiles, mainly for balancing and modernization.



- 27 -
finance 23% of the total large and medium-scale private investment industry
(the level desired by GOP) compared with about 21% in FY73-75. The proj-
ection of PICIC's operations is based on what appears attainable at present
considering the prevailing economic conditions and investment climate. Thus,
for the purposes of financial planning, the more conservative assumptions are
justified.
Resource Requirements
6.04      Foreign.  Annex 23 shows PICIC's projected resource position
through 1980.  Its uncommitted foreign currency resources as of December 31,
1975 were $18 million, mostly tied funds. Hence its commitments through
September 1978 are expected to be about $85 million. this leaves a resource
gap of $67 million, of which $15 million are expected to be obtained from
bilateral sources and $25 million from ADB. A $25 million loan by IBRD would
cover the balance of PICIC's requirements and would account for about 39% of
PICIC's commitments between September 1976 and September 1978.
6.05      Domestic.  As shown in Annex 23, PICIC's local currency resource
position will be severely strained during 1976 and 1977 because collections
are expected to be below repayments, although it should improve thereafter
(para 6.07). The gap in foreign currency collections, which should be filled
with SBP funds (para 5.14), is expected to account for about 16% of PICIC's
domestic fund requirements during 1976-77. Further, as discussed in para
5.14, Rs 125 million of previous SBP credits for debt servicing falls due in
1976. This debt payment has been rolled-over to 1977 and will continue to be
rolled-over until PICIC's debt servicing capacity enable it to pay. Actual
payment is expected to be made starting in 1979 over a period of 5 years. On
a 10 year projection of PICIC's collections and debt servicing, the estimated
additional SBP borrowings needed for debt servicing (Rs 150 million, of which
Rs 105 million during 1976-77) could be fully repaid 5 years after being drawn
down. 1/ Redemption of PICIC's previous (1972) debenture issues (final
payment in 1980) should be as scheduled and would account for 27% of resource
requirements during 1976-80. Despite the strained resource position, PICIC
should be able to make local currency loans, as it has funds from the special
SBP scheme for financing locally fabricated machinery (Annex 14 para 6). 2/
Internal cash generation will fund 15% of PICIC's local currency requirements
during 1976-77, but this should improve to 35% in 1978-80, because debt
servicing requirements will decline.
Financial Projections
6.06      Annex 24 shows projected income statements for 1976-80.  While
liquidity will be strained due to the low collections and heavy debt servic-
ing, after tax profitability is expected to remain satisfactory at 1.3%
1/   Refer to para 5.14.  SBP charges interest at the Central Bank rate.
2/   Present funds are expected to be fully utilized by 1977 but the
scheme is expected to be continued by SBP.



- 28 -
on average total assets. This is the same level attained in 1975 although
lower than in previous years because realization of the exchange reserve
will be completed by 1978 (para 5.16), and PICIC will continue its policy
of not accruing income on its problem accounts (para 5.15). However, PICIC
plans to continue to pay a yearly dividend of 12.5%.   This is justified to
enable PICIC to maintain the price cf its shares not too far below par (para
5.18) and ease the task of increasing share capital in the future. Further,
these dividend payments represent only a 26% - 29% payout ratio, and would
account for only 6% of PICIC's domestic resource requirements over the pro-
jected period.
6.07      Annex 25 shows projected cash flow statements through 1980.  As
collections will only start exceeding new amounts falling due after 1978, 1/
and as PICIC's rupee debentures will have to be redeemed through 1980,
PICIC's debt service coverage is expected to be marginal at about unity 2/
for the projected period. SBP will cover PICIC's shortfalls during that
period (para 5.14). Thereafter, liquidity should be satisfactory, as
debentures would be all redeemed, and the bulk of present overdues should
be collected after 1980.
6.08      Annex 26 shows projected balance sheets through 1980.  Total
assets (excluding those in Bangladesh) are expected to grow from Rs 2.2
billion in 1975 to Rs 2.6 billion in 1980 or by 4% per annum. The loan and
equity portfolio should grow at about the same rate from Rs 1.9 billion in
1975 to Rs 2.3 billion in 1980. The slow growth is due to the relatively
low disbursements vis-a-vis repayments falling due. By 1980, PICIC's debt
outstanding to IBRD should be the same as at present, $35 million (due to
repayments), and should account for 16% of PICIC's long-term debt outstand-
ing and for 13% of its total assets. Reserves and provisions should remain at
about 15% of the total portfolio, and the total long-term debt/ equity ratio
at around 7:1. The debt/equity ratio (contractual definition) is expected to
stay at about 6.6:1 or slightly below the contractual limit, so there should
be no need for additional GOP subordinated loans (para 5.17). Overall, PICIC's
financial position is expected to be satisfactory, subject to the gradual
improvements now envisaged in the arrears position that appear reasonable.
Annex 27 shows the estimated disbursetment schedule for the proposed loan.
1/   Collections over amounts falling due plus overdues (33% during 1975)
are projected at 37%, 39%, 41%, 43% and 45% during 1976, 1977, 1978,
1979 and 1980 respectively. This is equivalent to 68% of amounts
falling due (excluding overdues) in 1975 (actual), 80% in 1976, 95% in
1977, 100% in 1978 and slightly over 100% thereafter. PICIC's actual
collection experience for 1976 to date exceeds the assumption made for
the full year.
2/   Except for 1976 when it will be around 0.7:1 because the schedule re-
payment of Rs 125 million to SBP, although rolled-over, has been shown
for 1976, and assumed to have been paid by an SBP borrowing of the same
amount.



- 29 -
VII. PROPOSED LOAN
Lending Scheme
7.01      The proposed loan for $25 million would be made to PICIC.  Some
$24.8 million would be on-lent by PICIC to meet the foreign cost of capital
goods and services of sub-projects sponsored by private productive enterprises.
As with other IBRD loans to development finance companies, eligible enterprises
would be broadly defined so as to include not only manufacturing, but also
agro-industries, mining, hotel projects, etc. Up to $0.2 million would be
allocated to GOP for financing the foreign exchange cost of the study of the
textile industry. GOP would pay for the foreign cost of the study by rei-
mbursing PICIC for the interest and principal repayments made on that amount,
including exchange differential.
Main Terms
7.02      Interest.  IBRD would lend to PICIC at 8.9% and PICIC would on-lend
to sub-projects at 11.0% with sub-borrowers taking the exchange risk. The
spread of about 2% is adequate. PICIC would review its lending rate period-
ically and revise it if necessary in the light of inflationary conditions and
other factors. 1/
7.03      Amortization Schedule.  Loan 961-PAK was for 20 years with a fixed
schedule. PICIC is not expected to make loans above 15 years. Therefore,
allowing for the commitment period, an 18 year flexible amortization schedule
with a 3 year grace period is recommended. When a fixed schedule is used,
it reflects the expected pattern of repayments by sub-borrowers to PICIC.
However, PICIC now prefers a flexible schedule to ensure that repayments to
IBRD are in approximate conformity with repayments by sub-borrowers. The
$0.2 million for the textile study would be repayable up to the eighteenth
year.
7.04      Free Limit.  Under Loan 961-PAK the free limit was $3 million for
each project loan, including outstanding commitments to it. IBRD reviewed for
prior approval 41% by amount and 25% by number of the projects financed under
that Loan. The recommended free limits for the proposed loan are: (i) $2.5
million on PICIC's lending to the project; or (ii) $4 million on that amount
including outstanding commitments to the project. Under the proposed defini-
tion, IBRD is expected to review for prior approval the same proportion of
projects as in the past. This is desirable to continue the mutually beneficial
dialogue on project appraisal. However, the new definition would not require
review of small PICIC additional loans unless PICIC's exposure was relatively
high.
1/   An increase of 0.5%-1.0% in the lending rate is expected pending dis-
cussions between GOP and the basic economic mission (para 3.12).



-. 30 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      A $25 million direct loan to PICIC is recommended, of which
about $24.8 million would be for financing the foreign exchange costs of
projects sponsored by private enterprises. Up to $0.5 million would be
allocated by PICIC to GOP for financing the foreign exchange cost of the
study of the textile industry, to be paid by GOP. Initially, PICIC's on-
lending rate would be 11.0% (with the sub-borrowers bearing the exchange
risk). The amortization schedule would be flexible for a period of 18 years
with 3 years grace (paras 7.01-7.03), and the free limit would be $2.5
million for individual PICIC loans or $4 million including outstanding
commitments (para 7.04).
8.02      The following understandings reached during negotiations to im-
prove PICIC's position form the basis for recommending the proposed loan:
With GOP and PICIC:
(i)  the undertaking  of a textile industry study with the
agreed terms of reference as a condition of loan
effectiveness (para 2.06);
(ii) IBRD consultation prLor to future changes in PICIC's
top management (para 3.03);
(iii)  the solution to the problem of commercial bank
guarantees (para 5.0,7);
(iv) the timetable to sett:le existing overdues by public sector
companies and the assurance by GOP regarding payment of any
future arrears (para 5.06);
(v)  the arrangements concerning PICIC's foreign currency
Bangladesh liabilities and rupee assets in Bangladesh
(para 5.04);
(vi) the inclusion of PICIC under the proposed new law
regarding collection of overdues (para 5.09);
(vii)  the rescheduling of PICIC's existing debt to SBP
and the availability of additional funds as needed
by PICIC on adequate terms for debt servicing
(para 5.14, 6.05);
(viii)   the availability to PICIC of GOP subordinated loans,
if and when needed, to maintain its debt/equity ratio
within the contractual limit of 7:1 (para 5.17);



- 31 -
With PICIC
(ix) the increased role of the Executive Committee (para 3.02);
(x) the hiring of a qualified industrial economist, the
undertaking of a study of staff benefits, and the
increase in follow-up staff (paras 3.04 - 3.06);
(xi) the organizational changes to coordinate better
follow-up work and strengthen internal audit
(para 3.07);
(xii) the increase in follow-up visits (para 3.09);
(xiii)  the approval by PICIC's Board of the Strategy for
1976 - 78 as a condition of loan effectiveness
(para 3.11);
(xiv) the actions and their timing to be taken from the
rescheduling study and the targets for future PICIC
collections (paras 5.08, 5.12);
(xv) the annual increases in provisions for doubtful accounts
(para 5.11);






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
The Textile Sector
1.        The cotton textile sector includes those industries - private and
public - that separate the cotton fibers from the seed (ginning); spin the
lint into yarn, with or without blending of other fibers; weave the yarn into
cloth; treat (finish) the cloth by bleaching, dyeing, printing or other pre-
parations; make up the cloth into preliminary or final end-product consumer
goods and the marketing of these products. In Pakistan, the cotton textile
industry utilizes over 20% of fixed asset capital and over 35% of the non-
agricultural labor force. It produces about 30% of the value of manufactur-
ing industry output and accounts for 40-60% of the value of manufactured ex-
ports. Raw cotton accounts for 1o%-30% of the value of agricultural exports.
The industry has a low capital-output ratio and uses a high labor intensive
technology. Thus, development of the sector fits Pakistan's factor endow-
ments and contributes to the solution of unemployment and income distribu-
tion problems.
I.   Supply and Quality of Cotton Lint
2.        Pakistan's textile industry depends heavily on both the quantity
and quality of its domestic supply of cotton. Since 1962-63, areas in cotton
has increased at the rate of 3.5% per year - 3.5 million acres to nearly
5.0 million acres. Most of the growth has occurred in the Multan and
Bahawalpur divisions of the Punjab province and Khairpur division of Sind.
Yield per acre has increased at the compound growth rate of 3.2%. Production
in recent years was as follows:  (million bales lint @ 392 lbs):
1970/71            3.1            1973/74           3.7
1971/72            4.1            1974/74           3.6
1972/73            4.1            1975/76           2.8 Est.
The long range data are given in Figure 1. The growth in output, at the
rate of 6.7% per year, is due to the increased area irrigated (canal and
tubewell) and fertilized and the higher profitability of cotton relative
to maize and paddy. Annual variations in production appear to be a function
of price relationships, area planted, availability of irrigation water and
insect infestation.



ANNEX I
Page 2
3.        Quality of yarn and cloth are determined in part by cotton variety
characteristics. Fiber characteristics of each variety are given in Table 1.
Staple length data are given in Figure 2. About 85% of the lint has a staple
length of less than 1 inch. It is best adapted for processing into medium
and coarse yarn and cloth and in spin counts of 10s to 30s.   From 50 to 55%
of Pakistan's cotton is processed as coarse (spin count up to 20), 40 to 50%
as medium (spin count of 21 to 30), and 5 to 8% as fine (spin count over 30 1).
4.        Fiber qualities vary each year with variety, field conditions under
which it is produced and ginning operations. Varietal mixtures in the field
are common because of inadequate arrangements to maintain purity in the field
and at the gin. The leading Pakistan varieties produce plants with (a)
excessive vegetable growth; (b) a high percentage of boll shedding; (c)
delayed flowering and bolls with a high percentage of immature seed. These
varieties require 170 to 210 days from seed to harvest. Because of the long
maturity, infestation with jassids and pink bollworm is more severe. When
ginned with dull and improperly operated saw gins, the lint carries a high
proportion of broken and stained fibers containing a high percentage of neppy
materials (boll chips and fuzzy lint balls). Stained, broken and neppy fibers
appear as defects in the yarn and cloth and in combination with the low staple
length, limit most of the Pakistan textile industry to the production of
medium and coarse yarn and cloth. Whilst there is a market for these items,
they sell at price differentials of 20 to 25% below the higher fiber count
medium and fine cottons produced from early maturing varieties adequately
protected from insect infestation and properly ginned.
II. The Cotton Textile Industrial Sector
5.        At the time of partition in 1947, cotton production was 1.1 million
bales and only 17 textile mills with 177,000 spindles and 5,000 looms were
operated. It was necessary to import yarn and cloth for domestic require-
ments. With various monetary and fiscal incentives provided by GOP, the in-
dustrial sector had grown by early 1976 to 144 textile mills with about 3.6
million spindles and 30,000 looms. All except 5 or 6 industrial units are
in the private sector. Most of the textile mills are located in Punjab and
Sind. A typical textile mill operates 1 to 3 units of 12,500 ring type
spindles to process cotton into yarn. Mills installed in recent years have
added looms to weave some or all of the yarn into both pure and blended
cloth. A few of the mills with looms have added cloth finishing equipment.
Two entrepreneurs have installed equipment that processes lint into yarn by
the open-end rotor technique of spinning. (See para 26.) About 60% of the
yarn and 80% of the cloth processed by the industrial sector is exported.
1/   A spin count is the number of hanks or bundles of yarn, each 1,250 yards
in length, required to weight 10 pounds. A coarse cotton used for items
such as towels is usually made from 10 to 20 count yarn. A dress shirt
is usually made from 30 to 80 count cotton yarn blended with man-made
fibers.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.        Many ancillary industries have grown in the wake of development of
the cotton textile industry. The ginning industry shifted from roller gins
to saw gins in the mid 1960s. The cloth finishing industry has developed to
provide sizing, dyeing, printing, packaging and other services to the in-
dustry. A cloth made-up industry has started for hose, shirts, trousers,
towels and household items.
7.        The cotton textile cottage industry has had a similar phenomenal
development. The shift has been from labor intensive hand looms to about
60,000 power operated looms and 5,000 owners, usually 4 to 50 looms owned
and operated by one family. The power looms are usually operated on a custom
hire basis to convert yarn processed by the industrial sector into low qua-
lity-low cost cloth for household fabrics and grain and fertilizer bags for
the domestic market. The power loom industry had its greatest growth after
the 1971 war, when the import of jute and gunnies from East Pakistan ceased.
8.        Man-Made Fibers:  Pakistan has an installed capacity to produce
3,300 tons of cellulose fibers and 3,800 tons of non-cellulose fibers. In
addition, about 14,000 tons of man-made fibers are imported each year and
used to blend with cotton and to manufacture rayon and nylon fabrics.
9.        Output:  Since 1970/71, the Pakistan textile industrial sector has
processed 800 to 1,050 million pounds of the 1,200 to 1,600 million pounds of
lint each year and exported 54 to 67% of the output as lint, yarn and cloth.
At the same time, Pakistan consumers have used 7.8 to 9.1 pounds of cotton
goods per caput. Manufacturing waste has varied from 18 to 30%. Cloth
production (from the yarn) ranged from 655 to 787 million yards. Details are
given in Table 2 and 3.
III. Current and Future Market Prospects
10.       Supply Projections:  GOP's Fifth Plan projects a production of
6.1 million bales by 1980-81 and a domestic demand of 2,8 million bale
equivalent and an export availability of 3.3 million bale equivalent as
lint, yarn, cloth and made-up goods. Likewise, a UNDP-PAO study (Commodity
Policy Study on Cotton - AG:DP/PAK/73/045 - Rome, 1975) projects Pakistan
cotton production and demand as follows:
1979 - 80               1984 - 85
Low        High          Low        High
------------million bales------------
Production                    5.9        6.1           7.7        8.5
Domestic Consumption          2.6        2.8           3.6        4.4
Export Equivalent             3.3        3.3           4.1        4.1



ANNEX 1
Page 4
At these levels, domestic consumption would range between 12.3 and 13.6
pounds per caput in 1979-80 and up to 19.4 pounds in 1984-85 compared with
recent consumption rates of 8.0 to 9.0 pounds per caput. Likewise, exports
would need to expand from the recent level of 2.0 to 2.6 million bales
equivalent to 3.3 to 4.1 million bales by 1980 and 1985.
11.       Both the GOP and UNDP-FAO projections assume an increase in area
planted to cotton as a result of water to irrigate over 1.5 million acres
additional net land area when the Tarbela and Mangla major irrigation systems
and completed and from minor irrigation. About 1/3 of the net added kharif
irrigated area is usually planted to cotton. They also assume a continued
growth in yield per acre resulting from research and improved seed (IDA
Credit 620-PAK), increased use of fertilizer and plant protection and
favorable benefits relative to maize and paddy. The UNDP-FAO study eva-
luated its projections for sensitivity to land and water development stra-
tegies and cropping patterns in 50 ecological zones and for changes in
prices and benefit-cost relationships.
12.       Whilst there is no reason to doubt the above projections - in
fact, they could be accepted with at least an 80% probability - it appears
more prudent for development investment purposes to assume a production of
5.0 to 5.5 million bales and a domestic consumption of 10 to 12 pounds per
caput by 1980-81. These adjustments would result in 3.6 to 4.0 million bales
equivalent available for the export market in 1980, and about 5.0 million
bales for export by 1985. Thus, the outlook is for an increase of I to 2
million bales for export as lint, yarn or cloth.
l
13.       Export Demand for  Cotton & Cotton Products:  Expansion of the
Pakistan textile industry depends on increasing export demand from the
current 2.0 to 2.6 million bale equivalent level to 3.6 to 4.0 million
bales equivalent per year and on increasing the share of lint processed
into yarn, cloth and made up goods before exporting. The UNDP-FAO projection
of world production, consumption and trade in cotton is given in Table 4.
Their projection is that demand for cotton in world trade would increase
by 3 million bales up to 1980 and 3.5 million bales by 1985.
14.       About one-fourth of the world cotton production is one inch or
less in staple length. Pakistan produces about one-fifth of this supply
and exports over 60% of the short staple cotton (lint, yarn, cloth, etc)
that is marketed internationally. Therefore, if the UNDP-FAO projections
of cotton consumption and world trade are accurate, Pakistan would need
to maintain only its 60% ratio of the projected increment in world trade
to find a market for most of its projected increase in production.
15.       The UNDP-FAO projections of world cotton production are based
on an increase of 1.2% annually to 1980 and 1.5% from then to 1985. How-
ever, world export trade is projected to increase at 3.8% and 5.1%
annually for yarn, 3% annually for cloth fabric and 5.0 and 4.6% annually
for made-up goods - 1980 and 1985 respectively-in each case. At these



ANNEX 1
Page 5
rates, Pakistan could increase its export of lint, yarn and cloth, depending
on the product mix, by 24 to 40% by 1980 and an additional 16 to 25% by 1985
and hold its share of internationally traded cotton. This implies the
opportunity and need for a substantial expansion in Pakistan's spinning
and weaving capacity by 1980.
16.       Over 85% of Pakistan's export of lint and over 75% of its yarn
are sold to other south and southeast Asian countries - mostly Hongkong,
Japan, Indonesia, Burma, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Bangladesh and Singapore.
CLoth and made up goods tend to move westward to Middle East, European and
North American markets. Prices per bale of lint or yarn or per yard of
cloth are 20 to 25% less in the Asian markets than in the Middle East and
Western markets. Low quality of lint, yarn and cloth relative to demand is
the major reason for this price differential (see paras 3 and 4 above). The
high dirt and leaf content, short staple, broken fibers and lack of uniformity
in the lint deters mill operators from improving yarn and cloth quality. The
use of antiquated spindle and loom equipment and non-fast dyes also contri-
bute to the low quality of yarn and cloth. A substantial opportunity exists
for improving quality of exports and thus earning higher unit prices.
17.       Government Tax Policies:  Farm gate prices for seed cotton are
usually at government supported levels set at about 65% of the price for
competing comparable quality U.S. New Orleans, Texas Middling or Mexican
Acala of 7/8 to 1 inch staple length. The public sector Cotton Export Cor-
poration of Pakistan supports farm gate prices. It is the monopoly exporter
of all lint cotton. 'ts export price is negotiated with the buyer on the
basis of quality ' ts lint and the New Orleans or Liverpool price of the
above classes. GOP collects a 35% FOB advalorem duty on all lint exported
which has the effect of pricing Pakistan lint competitively in most world
markets and recovering the "windfall" margin as public revenue. By adjust-
ing the advalorem duty rate Pakistan cottons have a substantial price
leverage that should assure an increased share of the international market.
18.       In the cottage industry sector, all power looms are taxed at the
rate of zero per loom per month for the first 4 units, Rs 75 per loom for the
5th to 8th unit Rs 800 per month for the 9th to 12th loom and Rs 2,500 per
loom for more than 12 looms per owner. The industry is highly decentralized.
However, some individuals own many looms under many names to maximize the
benefits of the tax policy. Labor employed, wages paid and custom hire rates
are not taxed or regulated.
19.       In the indusrial sector the number of employees relative to the
number of spindles is determined by law. The law also specifies minimum
daily, monthly and annual wages to be paid, irrespective of quantity or
quality of work performed. Textile mill management, under these rules,
cannot effectively discipline its labor. In addition, variable rate
excise duties are levied against the yarn, varying with its spindle count
and whether used in the domestic market or exported. Also, a tax of Rs 5,000
loom per month is levied, regardless of whether it operates or not. Taxes
collected on the processing and marketing of cotton constitute an important



ANNEX 1
Page 6
source of government revenue. Taxes and the payment of fixed wage rates
represent a cost burden that reduces profitability or causes losses for
entrepreneurs when the mills are not Fully utilized.
20.       Market Organizations and Services:  In addition to the Cotton
Export Corporation mentioned above, GOP sponsors the Pakistan Central
Cotton Committee (PCCC) and the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB). The PCCC
collects a tax on all cotton ginned which it uses to finance production
research and to provide daily, weekly and longer range market information.
The PCCC also operates a training institute for cotton gin and mill operators.
The EPB promotes the expansion of export trade. It has a special section
dealing with cotton and cotton products.
21.       The Karachi Cotton Association operates the Cotton Exchange
Market where it engages in the sale of spot and futures on cotton and yarn.
It develops and maintains grade specification standards and arbitrates trade
disputes that may arise between domestic and international buyers and
sellers of lint and yarn. Annual average prices for lint, yarn and cloth
at Karachi are given in Tables 5, 6 and 7.
22.       Entrepreneurs in the industrial sector have organized the All-
Pakistan Textile Mills Association. This trade agency keeps the membership
informed of domestic and world market conditions. It represents the industry
in dealing with GOP and international trade policy issues. A Design Institute
operated by the Association assists cloth and make up entrepreneurs design
and market new styles. The Power Loom Owners Association assist its mem-
bers solve problems dealing with the cottage industry sector.
IV. The Fifth Plan - Textile Sector
23.       Ginneries:  The existing 400 ginneries have a capacity to gin
about 5.0 million bales of cotton per 120 day ginning season. However, some
of the saw gins and all of the roller gins are obsolete. At least 75% of the
saw gins operate with inefficient pre cleaners and dull saws improperly
aligned. By 1980-81, 40 to 50% of the saw gins would need replacement and, to
gin a 6.0 million bale crop, about 100 new ginneries would be needed. A 12
bale per hour high speed saw ginnery with saw de-gummers, sharpeners, pre-
cleaners, universal density press and seed de-linter costs about US$400,000
(Rs 3.9 million) installed with about half the cost in foreign exchange. A
loan for this type of investment is usually processed by the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) which operates in the small-scale sector,
rather than by PICIC.
24.       Conventional Ring Spindles:  GOP's Fifth Plan proposes the
addition of 900,000 spindles, 275,000 in the public sector and 625,000 in
the private sector, and the replacement of 625,000 of the 3.6 million
spindles currently in place. At the rate of 12,500 spindles per mill unit,
72 new and 40 replacement units would be required. It is estimated that at
least 50 of the new and 20 of the replacement units would need institutional
financing.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
25.       At current prices, a 12,500 spindle unit has an investment cost
of about US$5.0 million (Rs 49.0 million). When operated at full capacity
(900 8-hour shifts per year) it would process 4.22 million pounds of lint
(10,762 bales) and produce 3.86 million pounds of 10 to 20 count yarn. The
overall capital investment would be US$610 million. The 72 new units would
add spindle capacity for 775,000 bales of cotton per year; - only about 40%
of the projected increase in lint production. The remainder could be pro-
cessed by exceeding 900 shifts per year on the existing spinning mills or
it could be exported as lint.
26.       Open-End or Rotor Spindles:  Conventional ring spindles apply the
same mechanical principle to separate each cotton fiber and spin it into
yarn as was used by the Mohenjodaro settlers of 5000 B.C. Improvements since
that time ve increased the speed and capacity of a spindle but not the
mechanics of spinning. About ten years ago a new method of processing
cotton fibers, open-end spining was developed. The equipment that performs
this process is now available to the industry. The essential features of
O-E rotor spinning include the feeding of a continuous sliver of cotton lint
(with or without man-made fibers for blending) into an opening device that
contains a spiked roller which opens the sliver so completely that each
fiber can be fed forward individually. An air-stream transports the
individual fibers from the opening roller to the inner surface of a cup
shaped rotor which is operated at speeds of 30,000 to 60,000 rpm. The
centrifugal force of the rotor gathers the individual fibers and spin-
twists them into a multi-layered strand which is simultaneously peeled
from the rotor as yarn.
27.       An O-E rotor spindle operation with output capacity equal to a
conventional 12,500 spindle mill has an investment cost of US$2.3 million
(Rs 22.6 million). The conventional unit would require 600 workers for 900
to 1,000 shifts per year; whereas, the O-E rotor spindle unit would operate
with 200 workers. However, economies of scale are such that US$11.7 million
(Rs 116.8 million) invested in a 25,000 rotor system would provide 6 times
the output of a 12,500 conventional ring spindle unit and employ only 426
workers. Investment and operating costs are detailed in Tables 8 and 9.
28.       The advantages of the O-E rotor system in reducing unit costs
are clear. Despite its comparatively higher capital intensity, it also
generated higher economic returns (see para 34). O-E rotor spinning has
certain other characteristics of importance to Pakistan's textile industry.
The O-E rotor system can be designed and operated to spin long staple fibers
and counts of 40 to 100. However, it operates most efficiently with
cotton wastes below 1-1/16 inch staple and with yarn counts of 10 to 24
and with or without blending of man-made fibers. Most of Pakistan's
cotton production and yarns are of these qualties. O-E yarn has a stronger
tensile strength, takes brigther finishes and produces a more durable cloth
than the same cotton or blend processed by a conventional ring spindle.
O-E yarns are best used for towelling, denims, knitwear, sheets and sur-
gical cloth. Currently O-E yarn is priced at US$372 to US$400 per 400 pound



ANNEX 1
Page 8
bale whereas conventional yarn of the same spin count in priced at US$320 to
US$370 per bale. The major reason for this price differential is that O-E
yarn will process into cloth at a lower unit cost, i.e. less thread breakage,
faster weaving operation and cloth with fewer defects.
29.       O-E rotor equipment requires clean lint to operate successfully.
Pakistan lint contains 3 to 5% by weight of dirt, leaf and boll pices and
other admixtures. To use the O-E system special lint cleaning equipment must
be added in the "blow room". Conventional carding and drying equipment can be
adapted to O-E spindle operations by adding high speed tandem cards and
electronic control devices.
30.       Looms:  Yarn must be woven into cloth.  Pakistan currently has
30,000 looms with a capacity of 1,250 million yards per year in the cottage
industry sector.  The Fifth Plan provides for the installation of 30,000
additional looms, at least 65% with existing spindle mills in the industrial
sector to balance operations and produce cloth of exportable quality. The
cottage industry sector has major problems of quality and efficiency which
will be attacked by a training and guidance programs.
31.       Finishing:  After weaving, the cloth is further processed by
bleaching, sizing, dyeing, printing and packaging. The Fifth Plan proposes
to expand this section of the industry from 1,250 million yards to 1,800
million yards capacity. Most of the increase is planned for existing spindle
and loom mills in an integrated program to apply modern technology to achieve
improved export quality cloth.
32.       Make-up Textiles and Ready Made Garments:  By making up cloth into
exportable items, the industrial sector could expand its gross income and the
Pakistan economy would gain "added value" advantages. The Fifth Plan provides
for additional investments in this segment of the industry; about Rs 70 million
(US$7.1 million) for equipment.
V.   Investment Implications - PICIC and IBRD
33.       Over 40% of PICIC's lending portfolio is to the textile industry.
Also, PICIC's overdues problems are largely in this industry. This section
attempts to evaluate whether under these circumstances PICIC (and IBRD) should
continue to lend scarce foreign exchange resources in this industry; and, if
so, for what purposes and under what conditions.
34.       First, financial and economic rates of return were calculated for
typical investments, using for the latter, current border prices for raw
cotton and mill output, with the following results:



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Rate of Return
Item and Investment Cost                        Financial    Economic
12,500 Ring spindle mill (Rs 42 mil - FE Rs 27 Mil)
14.5%         17.5%
15% sensitivity range ------------------------   11.9 - 17.4  14.8 - 20.5
Weaving and Finishing Unit (Rs 67 mil - FE Rs 26 mil)
16.0          22.0
15% sensitivity range                                13.4 - 18.5  19.1 - 25.0
Finishing Unit (Rs 18 mil FE 10 mil)
23.4          31.0
15% sensitivity range ------------------------   19.3 - 28.1  26.6 - 36.1
25,000 Ring Spindle plus Weaving and Fisnishing Units
(Rs 97.5 mil - FE Rs 50 mil)
15.1          19.4
15% sentivitity range                                12.5 - 17.8  16.8 - 22.1
Open-End Rotor System - 2600 (Rs 23 mil FE Rs 16 mil)
28.0          38.4
15% sensitivity range ------------------------   24.9 - 31.4  34.5 - 42.6
Open-End Rotor System 25,000 (Rs 117 mil FE Rs 94 mil)
36.7          49.0
15% sensitivity range ------------------------   32.9 - 40.8  44.4 - 53.8
35.       Both the financial and economic rates of return for each type of
investment studied are at acceptable levels. Sensitivity tests determined by
adding 15% to costs or deducting 15% from benefits show only a moderate
effect on return rates. However, had 1980 border prices been used, the
financial and economic rates of return would have been some 35 to 50% higher
than given above.
36.       Most of the differences between financial and economic rates are
due to the heavy tax burden paid by mill operators (para 17 to 19). Lint,
yarn and loom taxes are designed to equate domestic farm-gate prices and
production costs with the international competitive market at the border.
If and when government fails to adjust tax rates downward in a declining
international market, mill operations become unprofitable and loan service
charges become in arrears. The level of taxes relative to the farm gate
price of lint and the international market prices for yarn and cloth and
rising labor costs represent the greatest risks of investment in the industry.
The situation also provides GOP a strong leverage to maintain a competitive
position for the industry in the international market.
37.       Major Beneficiaries of the textile sector investment would include
small farmers, tenants and rural village laborers engaged in producing and
ginning the incremental cotton production and laborers required to operate
the incremental industry capacity added by the investment. Indirect



ANNEX 1
Page 10
beneficiaries would include recipients of government revenues collected on
the incremental lint, yarn and cloth production. It is not feasible to
project numbers of beneficiaries. However, most of the tenants, rural
laborers, new textile industry employees and government revenue recipients
would be in the lower 40% of Pakistan's income distribution matrix. Whilst
the 0-E rotor system has a lower capital-output ratio and a moderately higher
capital-labor input ratio, it may be appropriate for Pakistan's package of
resources and projected demand for exported yarn and cloth. Without this new
technology, Pakistan may lose competitiveness in the international cotton
textile market.
VI. Recommended Lending Program
38.       The following lending strategy for the textile industry seems to be
the most appropriate in connection with PICIC's overall operations and sub-
projects financed under the proposed loan:
(a) PICIC, while improving its overdues situation in the textile
industry should continue to lend for the installation of new
textile plants. It requires about 20 to 30 months from the
date of PICIC's Board approval of a textile industry loan
to complete construction, procure and install the equipment
and initiate production of yarn and cloth. Therefore, as there
is need for additional capacity by 1978-79 continued investment
in the industry is necessary.
(b) Preference should be given to existing spinning unit borrowers to
balance and modernize equipment, to add weaving and finishing
units, and to replace antiquated ring spindle units. Where ap-
propriate, replacement should be with the open-end rotor system.
This would permit the industry to gain experience with this process,
and possibly to shift its export emphasis to 0-E yarn and cloth,
which generates greater value added and better export prices.
Further, the financial difficulties recently suffered by the in-
dustry due to international recession, were mainly in non-integrated
spinning units that lacked flexibility to adjust to changing market
conditions.
(c) For new borrowers, preference should be given to financing
integrated plant operations.
(d) This analysis (paras 10 to 12) projects the availability
of cotton, surplus to domestic requirements, to be exported
as lint, yarn, cloth and made up goods. It is to Pakistan's
advantage to gain the added value of exporting cotton as yarn,
cloth or made-up goods rather than as lint. Prudent investors
would ask for stronger assurances that world demand would
accommodate additional Pakistan cotton, and if so, how



ANNEX 1
Page 11
much and in what form. Information given in paras 13 to 16
lead to the conclusion that world demand would provide an
expanded market but the analysis does not indicate the most
probable types, quantities and qualities of yarn, cloth and
made-up goods that would maximize benefits. The O-E rotor
system of processing lint into yarn appears to offer substan-
tial investment opportunities in Pakistan. However, it also
poses questions whether market demand is for yarn or cloth
and of what quality and type. To answer these kinds of
questions and to help guide GOP, Pakistan lending agencies
and sub-borrowers in the development of the industry, a
market study should be executed by GOP and PICIC. See
Appendix 1 for more detail and terms of reference.
March 31, 1976



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN IIJgJSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVEST19hENT CORPORATION
Production of Cotton b,y Years - 1947 - 73
"0-
~~~ ~Total
Upland
50  51  52  53  54  55  56  57  f18 49  .0- 61  62 63  64  65  ff   7  Se  69  -70  nr  ni  73                      5
Y EA R                                                 -



ANNEX   1
FIGURE 2
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDrV AN1) lNvh!bTMhU!Ne UUrdurTIOrv
Production of Cotton by Staple length 1947 - 72
13/16"   13/16   }-1/32'  I1-tIs
to      to       to
1'    1-3/32" 1-15/16"
3000-              _ _                   __
.0_     _  _ __  _  _  _     ______         __ _    _  _ _  _  _  _  _
2000 -
S                                         _, 
40
1000-
.    =             .            
1947/50    1950/55   1955/60    1960/65    1965/70          1970/74
Y E A R S
Source  Pakistan Control Cotton Committee, Korochl
note: these figures differ slightly fromn those given in Figure 1
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
TABiLE 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKIJSTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTAENT CORPORATIC
Finer Characteristics of Cotton Varieties Recomimended for Cultivation in Pakistan
Tensile
Name            Staple                          Strength
Leng(th                     (00LJer            Maturity      Uniformity
Cinch)          Micronaire      in           Causticaire        Ratio
Upland Types
AC-134      15/16-1-1/16         4.0 - 5.0        94              79.9           78.2
B.S.I,      15/16-1              4.0 - 5.0       92               97.6           80.7
M-)4   )
M-100 )     15/16-1              4.0 - 4.5        85              81.9           75.2
149-F       1-1/32-1-1/16        3.9 - 4.3        95                 -           75.2
i5S-39      1-3/16-1-5,/16       3.5 - 4.2        87               78.4          75.3
MS-40       1-3/16-1-5/16        3.5 - 4.2        91               78.3          74.6
H-59-1      1-1,/8               3.5 - 3.7        90                -            78.6
Desi Types
231R        1/2-5/8              7.0 - 9.0        76.5             84.0          80.0
D-9         3/8-5/8                7.5            80.0            83.0           80.0
T.D.I.      3/8-5/8              7.5 - 10.5       79.5             92.2          80.0
Source: Pakistan Central Cotton Committee and Agriculture Departments of the
Punjab and Sind.
March 31, 1976



PAKISTANI
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CCRPORATION
Overal] Commodity Balance of Cotton (Expressed in Raw Cotton Equivalent)
(million lb.)
% of Pro-
Car-                            Total      Domestic               duction   End Season   Per Caput
over     Production  Tmport   Supply       Use        Exports    Exported  Stock        Domestic Use
(lb)
1?60/(,1    8.6        663.2     2.4        674.2       476.7    163.4         25        34.1          10.4
1961 /62   34.1        714.2    20.0        768.3       504.7    216.2         30        47.4          10.7
196 2/3   47.4         807.6     4.3        859.3       427.3    410.4         51        21.6           8.8
1963/61[  21.6         922.7     2.0        946.3       465.3    458.3         50        22.7           9.3
1964/65   22.7         832.6     2.8        858.1       489.4    353.4         42       1.3            9.6
1965/66   15.3         913.8     3.5        932.6       550.4    365.0         40        17.2          10.5
1966/67   17.2       1,021.6      t.7     1,043.5       545.1    440.1         43        58.0          10.1
1967/68   58.0       1,141.1     2.0      1,201.1       490.8    678.1         59        32.2           8.8
1968/69   32.1       1.163.1     2.0      1,197.2       584.5    541.7         47        36.5          10.P
1969/70   36.5       1,180.7     3.1      1,220.3       732.7    474.7         40        12.9          12.4
1970/71   12.9       1,196.0     2.0      1,210.9       533.9    649.1         54        27.9           8.8
1971/72   27.8       1,559.8     2.0      1,589.6       486.0  1,051.8         67        51.8           7.8
1972/72   51.7       1,5147.2    1.?      1,600.1       564.0  1,001.6         65        26.7           8.7
1973/74*  26.7       1,450.0       -      1,476.7       594.0    804.7         57        78.0           9.0
19741/75*  78.0      1,411.0      -       1,L89.0       600.0    800.0         57        89.0           9.1
* Prelininary
M-
March 31,, 1976



AN1NIEX 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
Mill Consumption, Yarn Production, Waste Percentages, nd Normal Consumption
1960 - 75
Yill &    Non-Mill
Yarn    Manufacting  Non-Mill    Cons   -
Season                      Mill ConsumptionI/  Production   Wastes.,   Consumptio nDl
million '000 bales   rillion
lb.   of 392 lb.       lb.          %       '000 bales  '000 bales
1960/61                     451.9      1,152       360.2          20       1,405         222
1961/62                     452.7       1,154      367.5          19       1,458         286
1962/63                     470.1      1,204       384.6          18       1,308          93
1963/64                     514.9      1,313       437.9          15       1,502         173
1964/65                     523.4      1,335       455.6          13       1,601         251
1965/66                     508.6      1,297       427.7          29       1,771         227
1966/67                     537.0      1,369       456.3          28       1,815         184
1967/AS                     599.4      1,529       495.1          29       1,915         131
1968/69                     652.8       1,665      526.5          32       2,176         212
1969/70                     737.9       1,882      602.4          30        2,597        399
1970/71                     793.7       2,025      669.7          25       2,432         143
1971/72                     919.3      2,345       745.7          18       2,463         153
1972/73                   1,036.o      2,6C5       843.0          19       3,033         390
1973/74*                  1,048.0      2,673       836.5          20       3,490         817
174/75*                    907.0      2,313       635.4          30       3,482       1,169
1/  Cotistics, June 1974, Table 36
2/ Cotistics, June 1974, Table 32
3/  Difference between mill consumption and yarn production expressed as
percentage of mill consumption
4/  Cotistics, June 1974, Table 10
;/ Based on figures in Cotistics, June 197h, Table 10, with recently revised
production figures
* Preliminary
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
World Production, Consumption and Trade in Cotton, 1960-85
1960         1973        1980       1985
   - - -        '000 metric tons   - - -
Production
Developed countries                       3,268        3,111       2,300       2,200
Centrally planned countries               2,878        4,141       5,200      5,700
Developing countries                     3.958         5,742       6,600         30
Total                            10,104        12,994      14,100
Consumption (mill)
Developed countries                       4,386        4,003       3,650       3,500
Centrally planned countries               3,595        4,532       5,500       6,100
Developing countries                      2,363        4,200       4,800       5,400
Total                            10,34         12,735      13,950     15,000
Trade
Raw cotton                                3,910        3,964       4,000       3,600
Cotton yarn                                 228          540         700         900
Cotton fabrice                              859          971       1,200       1,400
Cotton garments                             174           286        400         500
Total                            5TI171         5,76        6,300      6,400
Bale Equivalent (392 lbs) million         29.1         32.4        35.5       36.0
March 31, 1976



AN NEX 1
Table 5
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INWSrIXTAL CR13EDIT AND INVESI4NT CORPORATION
Spot Market Prices at Karachi - Varietywise
(Annual Averages) 1965-66 to 1975-76
Variety             65-66 66-67 67-68 68-69 69-70 70-?1 71-72 72-73 73-74 74-75  5-76
1                   2      3     4     5    6      7     8     9     10   11    12
Desai
Sind                 1.00  0.95  0.95  1.10  1.16  1.54  1.40  1.64  2.39  2.28  2.27
Punjab              0.96  0.82  0.87  1.06  1.10  1.49  1.34  1.50  2.29  2.22  2.22
Bahawalpur          0.97  0.85  0.91  1.09  1.14  1.52  1.37  1.59  ?.35  2.25  2.24
Source:  Kararhi Cotton Association Limited
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 6
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
Cotton Yarn Prices at Karachi - Countwise
(Annual Averages) 1965-_6 to 1975-7l
Count                65-66 66-67 67-68 68-69 69-70 70-71 71-72 72-73 73-74 74-75 75-7t
1                   2     3      4     5     6      7     8      9    10    11      12
( Rupees per bundle of 10 lbs)
10/1                 19.73 20.68 21.49 22.54 22.02 25.03 29.22 45.41 48.57 40.51 45.5(
15/1                                                       31.84 38.22 47.91 42.43 46.3,
20/1                 22.72 22.90 25.61 28.69 29.63 29.95 32.88 55.49 54.45 44.40 48.8'
21/1                                                 30.39 33.47 53.88 56.36 45.71 50.3
30/1                       32.25 34.90 38.21 38.78 38.46 41.57 67.02 67.04 54.08 53.9!
32/1                 28.93 31.73 36.19 40.51 41.17 41.18 43.45 72.68 73.92 58.92 65.8
40/1                 34.55 40.84 46.86 51.49 53.29 51.19 59.23 88.27 98.83 74.48 79.9.
60/1                 55.32 62.40 75.99 82.00 95.31 87.89 84.79 129.92 163.09
10/2                                                                    52.11 44.35 50.3'
20/2                 25.35 25.40 28.03 31.57 31.57 33.01 35.89 56.79 59.47 52.12 56.6'
21/2                                                                    70.87
28/2                                                              80.70 88.19 76.72 77.5.
40/2                       47.56                                               86.16 86.1k
42/2                                                                    120.0
60/2                                                 95.00 93-73 147.17 178.25
Source: The Pakistan Yarn Merchantst Association
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 7
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESDYENT CORPORATION
Price Per Yard of Cloth at Karachi (Annual Averages) 1965-66 to 1975-76
Quality             65-66 66-67 67-68 68-69 69-70 70-71 71-72  72-73 7        4-75 75-76
2     3     4     5      6     7     8      9    10     1     2
(Rupees per yard)
Long Cloth (96,000)
Dawood              2.21  2.32  2.34  2.37  2.40  2.47  2.53  3.44  h.76  4.88  4.80
Drills Sateen White
D.C.L.              1.91  2.49  2.95  4.50  3.12  3.31  3.34  4.10  6.08  5.37  3.75
Voiles  Sea                                                            4
Breeze              2.90  3.32  3.97  3.55  3.48  3.59  3.53  4.84  7.47  8.13  8.45
Poplines 2 x 2
Starlite White      5.31  5.73  6.64  6.52  6.21  6.45  6.25  7.09  7.63  6.54  6.56
Source: Pakistan Cloth Merchants' Association
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 8
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
ComParative Co0t 1960 Model Ring Spindle and Open-End Rotor system
Ring Spindle(12,500)       Open-End Rotor(3,600)
Local    FE     Total      Local     FE      Total
I.   Investment                           ( Rupees Million !
Land                      0.3             0.3        0.3                0.3
Buildings                 4.2             4.2        1.0                1.0
Machinery                 1.9      27.0  28.9                 15.0     15.0
Ins - fees               4.7              4.7        1.5                 1.5
Installation             0.5              0.5        1.0       1.0      2.0
Contingencies            3.0              3.0       3.0                 3.0
Total                    14.6      27.0  41.6        6.8      16.0     22.8
2/
II.  Gross Revenue (20s)l
5~.2 mil lbs @ Rsb.0    16.7       25.1  41.8
5.2 mil lbs @ Rs 9.0                                11.4      37.4     46.8
16.7      25.1  41.5       11.b      37.4     46.8'
III.Operating Costs
Lint cotton @ Rs4.0 lb                   24.4                           23.6
Labor - all grades                        8.2                           2.7
Admidnistration                           1.7                           1.5
Sales Exrenses                            1.0                           1.0
Total                                    35.1                          28.8
IV.  Profit Before Taxes                       6.7                           18.0
Taxes @ As 1.3 lb cotton                  4.7                           6.2
2.0                          11.8
Depreciatior. (10%)                       4.2                           2.3
Return to Capital                       - 2.2                            9.,
1/ Size of each plant adjusted to produce the same output of yarn.
T/ Asswmes 18% cotton waste with ring spindle and 15' waste with O-E rotor system.
3/ Assumes 3 8-hour shifts per day and 340 days per year.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 9
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
Comparative Investment and Operating Costs - 1976 Model Ring Spindle
and Open-End Rotor System
Ring Spindle (25,000)              Open-End Rotor (25,000)
Local     F.E.       Total       Local          F.E.      Total
-   Rs Millions)
I. Investment
Land            0.5                  0.5          0.5                      0.5
Buildings      10.0                 10.0         6.0                       6.0
Machinery cif   4.0        36.0     40.0          5.0        93.8         98.8
Insurance fees  2.6                  2.6         6.5                       6.5
Installation    2.9                  2.9          5.0                      5.O
Total          20.0-       36.0     56.o         23.0        93.8        116.8
IT. Gross Reven-ue (20s)L/
I,) Ij rl; I lbs e
,:s 8.0        37.4        56.2     93.6
31.1 mil lbs @
Rs .0                                           57.0       230.0        287.0
Total          37.4        56.2     93.6         57.0       230.0        287.0
III.  Operating Costs
Lint Cotton @
Rs 4.0 lb1/       2/                50.8                                 150.0
Labor - All Grades-
900 @ Rs 40 ea.                   12.2
426  Rs 40 ea.                                                          5.8
Administration                       2.1                                   5.4
Sales &xpenses                       1.6                                   4.0
Total                               66.7                                 165.2
IV.  Profit Before Tax                   26.9 -                               121.8
Ex-Taxes @ Rs 1.3
lb. cotton                          16.6                                   4.88
10.3                                 73.0
Depreciation (1 0%)                  5.6                                  11.7
Return to Capital                    4.7                                  61.3
1/ Assumses 1 5X wastage between lint cotton and yarn and 60% export sales
for the ring spindle and 15," wastage and 80% export sales for the O-E rotor
system.
2/ Assuimes  3 8-hou1 shifts per da-y (rnd 31L0 days pen .,ear.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
APNnT 1
FFL
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
Terms of Reference and Other Arrangements for
Textile Industry Study
Purpose
1.        The objective of the study shall be to determine the strategy to
develop Pakistan's textile industry in order to meet the projected national
requirements as well as to improve its export performance in the foreseeable
future.
Terms of Reference
2.        Pakistan plans to increase substantially its production of cotton
over the next five years. Taking into account the presently estimated
domestic consumption requirements, most of the increase in production would
be available for export as lint, yarn or cloth. While current projections
indicate an increase in world market demand sufficient to utilize all of
Pakistan's expected increase in production, it is not all clear whether
demand will be for lint, yarn or cloth and of what form or quality.
3.        To realize fully the export potential of its cotton production and
textile industry, thus earning the added value of yarn and cloth processing
and of quality improvement, Pakistan should develop a marketing strategy
based on potential international demand. Based on the evaluation of the
items listed in the attached Annex, the proposed study would delineate pro-
duction targets based on a careful analysis of the projected international
price structure and local costs, quantity and quality requirements by sub-
products, current and probable protectionist policies of importing countries,
and competition from other countries for cotton and cotton substitutes. The
study would evaluate the existing textile industry in Pakistan and recommend
investment and operational changes in cotton lint characteristics, quality
and quantity characteristics of yarn and cloth output, equipment and pro-
cessing techniques, marketing arrangements and other actions as needed to
optimize development of the textile industry and its foreign exchange earn-
ings potential. The study would focus on demand for lint, yarn and cloth
in 1980-81 and 1985-86, and would be designed to help answer the above issues
and thus serve as an improved guide to the Government and local financial
institutions in their development investment program.
Organization
4.        The Textile Commissioner of Pakistan would be responsible for the
organization and over-all implementation of the study. He shall be assisted
by a Coordination Committee comprised of representatives of the following
agencies/departments:



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
Industries Division (Government of Pakistan, Ministry of
Industries), PICIC, IDBP, All Pakistan Textile Mills Association,
Pakistan Cotton Corporation, Export Promotion Bureau, Karachi
Cotton Exchange, Cotton Export Corporation, Cotton Textile
Industries Research and Development Centre (CTIRDC), One
representative of each provincial government, The Textile
Commissionery, and Team Leader of the Project.
The representative of the Industries Division shall be the Chairman of
the Coordination Committee.
The Ministry of Industries would engage both domestic and
expatriate consultants as indicated below to complete the study.
5.        The following consultants are proposed:
Cotton Lint Market Consultants
Where appropriate, these consultants should use the reports
of previous Cotton Missions to Pakistan.
Pakistani National: This person would be responsible for
projecting supply and quality characteristics of cotton lint
production in Pakistan. He would assist his co-worker evaluate
and project world cotton supplies by major producing countries
and by types and potential markets. He should be experienced
in projecting Pakistan lint production.
Expatriate: This person would assist his co-worker project
supply of Pakistan cotton and have major responsibilities for
projecting world cotton supplies. He should be experienced
in world cotton production activities and in supply projections.
Both lint market consultants would work with the study team
leader in projecting domestic and international demand for lint.
Cotton Yarn and Cloth Market Consultants
Pakistani National: This person and his co-worker would be
jointly responsible for evaluating and projecting domestic
and export demand for the various types and qualities of yarn
and cloth, and other made-up textiles including open-end rotor
yarn. EIe should be knowledgeable in the various types
and qualities of lint, yarn and cloth produced in Pakistan
and with current and probable export demand for these products.
He should be experienced in demand projection techniques.
Expatriate: This person would have joint responsiblity with
his co-worker in executing the above functions. He should be
knowledgeable in the types of yarn and cloth demanded in various
international markets and experienced in demand projection
technioues.



ANNEX 1
AppTt 1
Page 3-
Cotton Textile Mill Consultants
2 Pakistani Nationals and 2 Expatriates: These persons would be
jointly responsible for evaluating the capabilities of the
Pakistan textile industry in processing the types. qualities,
and quantities of yarn and cloth projected by the study.  They
would recommend to the study team improvements and additions
needed in textile processing equipment and operations to
optimize foreign exchange earnings. They should be knowledgeable
and experienced in textile processing equipment, installations and
operations. One of the expatriates assisted by one of the local
counterparts would concentrate on spinning and weaving capabilities,
while the other two consultants would concentrate on textile
finishing units.
Study Team Leader
The study team leader would coordinate the work of other members
of the group and would direct the study and preparation of its
reports. He should be a cotton market economist, experienced
with all phases of cotton production and marketing (domestic and
export) in Pakistan and with economic methodology dealing with
supply and demand projections.
A deputy team leader would assist the team leader plan the study
and execute its analysis. He should be a trained and experienced
cotton textile market economist with detailed knowledge of the
international markets for cotton and cotton products.
The team leader and deputy team leader may be selected from
the above members of the study group.
6.        It is expected that data collection and field work for the study
should be completed in about three months. A draft report should be
completed two months later and a final report would require another month.
The study would be submitted to IBRD by September 30, 1977.
August 16, 1976



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
ANNEXURE A
Page 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SURVEY OF
COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY IN PAKISTAN
1.     Growth of domestic consumption of textile products based on
projected economic growth and population increase.
2.     Pattern of Consumption in Future
-   Substitution by artificial and synthetic fibres.
-   Variety of cotton cloth for future demand.
-   Increase in use of ready made garments.
3.     Prospects of Export (quantitative & qualitative)
(a)    Yarn
- Cloth
- Made-up textile including ready made garments, terry
towels, hosiery, canvas
- Blended fabrics
(b)    Export prospects in non-traditional markets
(c)    Proportionate growth in export of various textile
products mentioned above.
4.     Growth of Cotton Textile Industry
(a)    Present status and effective capacity
(b)    Target for productive capacity in spinning, weaving
and finishing and financing requirements
(c)    Pattern of growth
-  Spinning units vs integrated unit
-  Expansion of organized weaving sector vs
non-mill sector
-  Expansion of capacity for production of blended
yarn and fabrics
-  Growth  of ancillary industries e.g. garments,
hosiery warp knitting etc.
-  Appropriate size of individual spinning, weaving
and finishing units
-  New capacity vs balancing, modernization and replacement
-  Technology most suited to requirements and resources
-  Conventional vs Open End Spinning
-  Other measures for improving productivity
-  Use of Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme for future development of
the industry.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
ANNEXURE A
Page 2
Raw Material Requirements
- Size of cotton crop and variety of cotton
- Demand for synthetic/artificial fibres of
various kinds
- Expansion of indigenous production capacity
- Improvement of ginning facilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
INSTITUTIONS FINANCING INDUSTRY IN PAKISTAN
General
1.        While total industrial investment in the medium and large-scale
sector has been declining, the proportional financing of this investment
from external sources has increased. ICP (para 3) figures indicate that
during FY74 some 53% of investment was financed from long-term debt, 39%
from internal cash generation and 8% from share capital, of which the
sponsors contributed 3%, institutional investors 4%, and the public 1%.
The large proportion of debt financing started in FY72, the year when
the rupee was devalued, and when the economic disturbances caused by the
Bangladesh situation were most strongly felt. During FY71, long-term debt
financing accounted for 27% of total investment, internal cash generation
46%, and share capital 27%, of which the sponsors contributed 13%, the
public 10%, and institutional investors 4%. The reduced proportion of
equity financing in the more recent years is due in part to reduced cor-
porate profitability, and to the recent investment climate which induced
entrepreneurs to minimize their risk capital contribution, but mainly to
increased costs, a result of devaluation and inflation. Regarding small
scale industries, financing from institutional sources has been small.
Some 80% 1/ of the resources for small-scale industrial (SSI) fixed invest-
ment came from the investor's own or family finds, loans from friends,
credits from wholesalers and suppliers, and money lenders. This is because,
with a limited amount of resources and due to SSI's lack of collateral,
commercial banks in many cases had preferred to finance the larger borrowers
with whom they could realize a greater return on capital at less cost and
risk. This has changed recently as commercial banks have increased their
involvement in small industries. However, there are still some cumbersome
administrative procedures that need streamlining (para 6).
1/   This figure (which is a very rough estimate for 1973) includes units
with fixed assets of less than $200,000. The larger small units (assets
of $50,000 to $200,000) do not have as much problem obtaining financing
as the very small and cottage industries.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Financial Institutions 1/
2.        The principal financial institutions providing long-term finance
for private industry are PICIC (Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation) and IDBP (Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan). IDBP is
now fully Government owned, and the Government controls some 45% of PICIC's
share capital. At the time IDBP was established (1961), the Pakistan
Government decided, to ensure an adequate division of labor, that while
PICIC would concentrate on financing medium and large-scale industries,
IDBP would operate primarily in the small and medium-scale sector. Hence,
minimum lending limits have been set for PICIC, and maximum limits for IDBP.
These lending limits are based on the size of loans. PICIC's minimum lending
limit is Rs 1.5 million equivalent for foreign exchange (Rs 750,000 in backward
areas) and Rs 2.5 million for rupee loans. IDBP's maximum lending limit
on foreign exchange is Rs 3.0 million for limited liability companies and Rs
1.0 million for others. Overall IDBP's maximum limits are Rs 4.0 million and
Rs 1.5 million respectively. These upper limits on IDBP's financing do not
apply to certain sectors, including textile loans. Most of IDBP's investment
in SSI is for the larger small industries (assets of $50,000 to $200,000).
This is appropriate as commercial banks are in the best position to assist the
smaller SSI due to their extensive branch network and because SSIs need mainly
working capital. A new financial institution, the National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) was established by the Government in January 1973
with an authorized and paid-in capital of Rs 100 million. It was created to
finance new public sector industries including those recently nationalized
which were previously financed by PICIC 2/ NDFC makes long and short-term
loans and also makes equity investments.
1/   Besides these institutions, foreign private investments and loans are
also sources used to meet foreign exchange requirements of private
sector industries. During the first nine months of FY75, Rs 680 mil-
lion of foreign loans and investments in the private sector were
sanctioned, compared to Rs 496 million for the whole of FY74. The
bulk of these funds were in the form of private loans, and PAYE (pay as
you earn) investments (machinery and equipment imported from suppliers,
primarily in Eastern Europe, who are willing to accept payment from the
export earnings of the project).
2/   PICIC is limited by its charter to finance only the private sector.
The nationalized industries accounted for about 10% of its financing
(by amount). In February 1976, it was decided that Pakistan and Libya
will set up a joint holding company with a paid up share capital of
US$100 million. The company will initially finance a number of projects
including an Investment Banking Corporation. No further details have
been given as yet, but it is expected that this institution will operate
in the public sector.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
3.        PICIC, IDBP and NDFC can make equity investments and underwrite
public issues. Nevertheless their main financing aevitity is long-term
lending. Securities and capital markets activities are undertaken mainly
by Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP), a Government-owned institution
established in 1966. ICP performs the following major functions: (i) it
underwrites new issues of securities and debentures; (ii) it opens and main-
tains investor's accounts for individual investors; (iii) it floats closed-end
mutual funds (7 up till now); and (iv) it buys and sells shares on the stock
market to encourage stability in share prices. Up to March 1975, ICP had
approved 222 issues of shares and debentures amounting to Rs 1.6 billion, to
which ICP's commitments amounted to Rs 300 million.
4.        Another institution playing an important role in channeling funds
from the small investor to the stock market is the National Investment Trust
(NIT), established in 1962. It promotes sales of units for investment in
Trust Funds. As of June 30, 1975 the total investment of the Trust at cost
amounted to Rs 562.0 million (market value, Rs 536 million) in shares and
debentures of about 260 companies. In recent years, the role that ICP and
NIT have played in industrial financing has been limited because of the
slump in the stock market. 1/
5.        Before 1974 there were 22 scheduled commercial banks in Pakistan
(of which 8 were foreign). The Pakistani banks were nationalized in
January 1974. 2/ Although professional bankers continued to manage the
banks, GOP assumed control over policy matters. A six member Banking
Council which reports to GOP, was therefore set up in charge of formulating
policy guidelines, coordinating the banks' activities, laying down perform-
ance criteria, and evaluating their performance. In April 1974, the Banking
Council decided to merge some of the smaller banks with larger ones so as
to reduce the number of administrative units. According to this reorgani-
zation scheme, the nationalized banks are now consolidated into five. The
distribution of credit is guided by a National Credit Consultative Council
(NCCC), set up in 1972 under the sponsorship of the State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP; the Central Bank) with representatives of GOP and the private sector.
The NCCC makes recommendations to GOP on monetary and credit expansion and
distribution of credit among the various sectors in conformity with the
Annual Plans. It also lays down targets for banks for provision of credit
to agriculture, small business, small industry and housing. As of
January 31, 1976 all commercial banks together held demand and time
deposits amounting to about Rs 28 billion and had over 4,600 branches
1/   The general index of share prices was 88.6 in June 1975, 68.6 in
June, 1974, 84.55 in December, 1973 and 100 in 1969-70.
2/   IDBP, the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan, and the
Punjab Provincial Cooperative Bank were also nationalized.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
scattered throughout the country. Commercial banks provide mainly short-
term working capital although they can also engage in term financing up
to a ceiling fixed by SBP. Industry accounts for some 40% of their lending
activity. During FY75 commercial banks disbursements to industry were about
Rs 2.4 billion of which some 13% was for fixed investments, and about 20%
for SSI. Commercial banks are the main source of financing for SSI.
6.        Other institutions which play a role in financing small-scale in-
dustries are the Provincial Small Industries Corporations/Board (SICs), the
People's Finance Corporation (PFC), and the Equity Participation Fund (EPF).
The Provincial Small Industries Corporations/Boards are the result of the
disolution of the West Pakistan Small Industries Corporatin (WPSIC), which
took place in June 1972 when its functions were transferred to the Pro-
vincial Governments under the Ministry of Industries and Natural Resources.
Thus, the Punjab Small Industries Corporation, the Sind Small Industry Cor-
poration, and the NWFP Small Industries Development Board have been created.
No corporation has yet been established in Baluchistan where WPSIC's activi-
ties are now under the Industries Department, Government of Baluchistan. In
the same way of WPSIC did in the past, the Provincial Small Industries Cor-
porations provide financing to small-scale industries through arrangements
with a consortium of commercial banks and with IDBP. These arrangements
requiring the small borrower to deal with two institutions have in many
cases caused delays due to disagreements between the institutions. 1/ Though
it is reported that some recent improvement has taken place, a more efficient
system should be devised (para 11).
7.        A new financial institution, People's Finance Corporation (PFC)
was also set up (October, 1972), with initial paid-up capital of Rs 50 mil-
lion, to augment the availability of credit to small borrowers. PFC provides
all types of small loans to customers with net assets below Rs 50,000 to a
large extent for working capital, consumer durables, and some equipment. At
present PFC makes extensive use of the branch network of the commercial banks,
which process the loan applications on PFC's behalf and forward them to PFC's
headquarters (Islamabad) for sanction. Since inception, shopkeepers and
traders have received 66% of total gross approvals, transporters (including
taxis) 7%.   Small-scale and cottage industries (including artisans) have
since 1972 received 14% of gross approvals, and 9% for 1975.
1/   The Small Industry Corporations prepare the appraisal report and the
commercial banks/IDBP assess the creditworthiness of the borrower,
an exercise which mainly involves an analysis of the borrower's credit
standing and of collateral and securities. Though the functions to be
performed by the Small Industry Corporation and by the commercial banks/
IDBP are clearly defined, the commercial banks/IDBP have many times
questioned the proposed projects on technical financial grounds (par-
ticularly in the case of IDBP which is more experienced than the
commercial banks in project appraisal). The interest spread and the
credit risk are shared by the Small Industries Corporations and the
commercial banks/IDBP.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
8.        The Equity Participation Fund (EPF), owned by the government, and
administered by IDBP, has been reactivated since the loss of its Dacca
office where most of its activities were concentrated. EFF provides equity
capital to medium and small enterprises in the backward areas of the country.
Since January, 1973, when it recommenced operations, to December 31, 1975,
EPF had approved financing of 35 projects with total fixed cost of Rs 281
million.  EPF's contribution amounted to Rs 20.1 million.
9.        Insurance companies participate in industrial financing as members
of underwriting consortia and as investors in corporate securities. During
1972, the 32 life insurance companies in Pakistan were nationalized and con-
solidated into the State Life Insurance Corporation of Pakistan, established
in November of that year with a paid-up capital of Rs 10 million. As of
December 31, 1974 the Life Fund investment portfolio totalled Rs 1.6 billion.
Government securities and debentures of Government-owned/controlled-corpora-
tions accounted for 31% of this portfolio; shares and debentures of joint
stock companies 29%; real estate 8%; loans to policy holders 16%; mortgage
loans 2%, and bank deposits 15%.
10.       Apart from the above mentioned financial institutions, a number of
other organizations play a role in the promotion and management of public
sector industries. Among them, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM),
responsible to the Ministry of Production, oversees the performance of the
nationalized units, as well as of the twelve Sector corporations (established
in July, 1974) which act as holding companies for the individual units. The
Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation (PIDC), which previously had the
responsibility of establishing and managing public sector enterprises in cer-
tain industrial sectors where private entrepreneurship was lacking, now
operates as a Sector Corporation. It is responsible for forestry, sugar,
and textile projects in the public sector.
Conclusions
11.       In terms of the size and diversity of operations, the financial
system is adequate. Due to the reduced involvement of the private sector
in large-scale operations, there is now more overlap between the lending
activities of PICIC and IDBP (medium-scale). However, the low level of
private investment in recent years cannot be considered normal, and the
competition is healthy. Moreover, even over the last two years the role
of both institutions has been complementary, with PICIC's average size of
loan at about $1.4 million and IDBP's at $225,000. Further, a merger would
create inefficiencies and divert IDBP from focussing more in the small-scale
sector. Nevertheless, some strengthening of institutions concerned with SSI
is needed, particularly regarding the financing arrangements between the
SICs and commercial banks/IDBP (para 6). It would be better if the two sets
of institutions had divided responsibilities, with the SIC providing a range
of services such as industrial estate management, marketing, distribution,
and training, to the small industrialist, 1/ rather than providing finance,
which sould be done by IDBP and commercial banks. With their 4,600 branches
1/   At present, these activities are also the responsibility of SICs.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
spread accross the country, the commercial banks are best equiped to finance
the very small industries (assets of below $50,000), which are more difficult
to reach by IDBP. In recent years, commercial banks have been encouraged by
SBP and GOP to do so through a small loans scheme introduced by SBP and
targets set by the NCCB. To make foreign exchange available to the very
small industries through commercial banks, a scheme by which IDBP would
refinance foreign exchange loans made by commercial banks to small projects
(commercial banks would undertake the appraisal and take the full risk
and would be liable to IDBP for the refinance obtained so there would be no
overlap of functions) could be established.
March 31, 1976



PAKTSTAN
APPRAISA1 OF
AV'':TAlC _LD11SThTA& CY? A>D   :: 'f A,'L CORPORATION LIMTTEr
INTEREST RATE TRENDS
(in percentages)
Before          March        August   September    December        December
Devaluation        1973         1973       1974         1974            1975
STATE BANK'S DISCOUNT RATE                5.00          6.00         8.00         9.00        9.00           9.00
COMMERCIAL BANKS's DEPOSIT RATES
Special Notice Accounts               3-3.25       4-4.25        4-4.25   4  -1h.25   4  -h).25         5   -6
Savinrs Deposits                     hI-it. O      5-5.00        6-6.50    6  -7.50    6  -7.50         6.50-8
Fixed Deposits                     4.50-6. o    5.50-7.00    6.75-9.00   7.50 -  11   7.50-  11         8   -11.75
COMMERCTAL BANKS LOAN RATES.2-/
Large Banks                             9.00        10.00         11.00)        2/        2                 2/    2/
Small Banks                            10.00         11.00        12.00)      10-13     10 - 13           10- 13 2
1/ These are maximumn rates.
2/ Large and small banks were merged after the January, 1971k nationalization.  The 10,  ceiling relates
to small loans. The ceiling on these remained unchanged since the March 1973 interest rate increases.
tM,
March 31,3 1 976                                                                                                         >



ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
List of Shareholders as of September 30, 1975
Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shareholders    No. of Shares   Percentage
Foreign shareholders who subscribed
in foreign citrrency ***
*International Finance Corporation                           233,333
*Bank of America (USA) C     a210,646
Irving International Financing Corporation
(USA)                                                     1o4,166
Continental International Finance Corporation (USA)        t49.654
*The Commonwealth Devt. Finance Company Ltd. (UK)            117,438
*Deutsche Bank A.G. (West Germany)                           320 833
6        1,136,07O           17.11
Other shareholders holding less than
100,000 shares                                23           706,632          lo.64
Sub-total                                   29        1,842,702           27.75
Foreign shareholders who subscribed in
Pakistan currency **
The Chartered Bank (UK)                                     107,844
*The National & Grindlays Bank (UK)                          234,792
First National City Bank (USA)                             -133,333
3          757969             7.17
Other shareholders holding less than
100,000 shares                                10           110,655           1.67
Sub-total                                   13          386.1624           8.7
Total foreign shareholders                  42        2,429,326           36.59
Pakistani shareholders ***
*State Life Insurance Corporation
of Pakistan                                            1,481,olo
Habib Bank Limited                                         192,729
National Bank of Pakistan, Head Office                     297,500
**Investment Corporation of Pakistan                         224,019
*Pakistan Insurance Corporation                             228,155
**United Bank Limited                                        126,419
*National Bank of Pakistan, Trustee Dept.                   419,269
7       2,799,1              144.71
Other shareholders holding less than
100,000 shares                               600       1 241 573            18.70
Total Pakistan shareholders                6         4,210,674            63.41
Total PICIC shareholders                   b79       6,640,000           100.00
* Subscribed in full to rights issue of August 1974
** Subscribed in part to rights issue of August 1974
*** The following summarizes the outcome of the August 1974 rights issue:
Shares held    Rights shares   Subscribed
on 7/74         offered
Foreign non-resident shareholders       1,633,310        272,222        20'9,392
Foreign resident shareholders             537,658.        89,612         48,966
Pakistani shareholders                  3.829.032        638,166        381,.642
Total      6,000,000      10,OO,00 60 on
March 11, 1976



ANNEX 5
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAI. CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Board of Directors and Executive Committee
(as of January 1, 1976)
Year of
Pakistani Directors            A pointment         Principal Present Position
1. *Mr. M. Uquaili                1975             Chairman, PICIC
2. *Mr. Ahinad Dawood             1972             Idistrialis; ChainannDawood 0=aui aE Canpanies
3. Mr. M. Shabbir Ahmed           1962             Businessman & Industrialist
4. Pir Moharmad Mahfooz           1957             Chairman, Sima Laboratories Ltd.
5. Mr. D.M. Qureshi               1975             Chairman, State Life Insurance
Corporation
6.  Mr. G.M. Adamjee              1973             Industrialist
7. *Mr. A. Jamil Nishtar          1972             Managing Director, National Bank
of Pakistan
8. Mr. T.A.G .M. Akhtar           1975              Yanaging Directo; Investment Corp. of Fakistan
9. Mr. S.M. Rafiq Akhtar          1975             Businessman
10.*Dr. Nasiruddin Jogezai        1972             Physician and Surgeon
11. Mr. Zahid Bashir              1972             Industrialist
12. Mr. K.S. Islam                1975             Managing Director, National Investment
Trust
Representing Government of Pakistan
13.*Mr. K.U. Faruqui              1973             Joint Secretary, Ministry of Industries
14.*Mr. Muizuddin Ahmad           19714            Secretary, Industries, Commerce,
Mineral Resources and Labor Dept.,
Govt. of Baluchistan, Quetta
Foreign Directors
15.*Mr. Alexander F. Kirk         1974             IBRD Resident Representative in Pakistan
16. Mr. William B. Beam           1972             Senior Vice-President, American Express
Banking Corporation of New York
17. Mr. J.G.D. Gordon             1975             Group Managing Director, & Grindla)s Bank,
London
18. Dr. Helmut Bending            1975             General Director, Deutsche Bank, Frankfurt
19. Mr. Kazuaki Kobayashi         1973             General Manager, Bank of Tokyo, Karachi
Managing Director
20.* Vacant
Mr. Shafique Ahmed (Alternate Director
for Mr. William B. Beam)       1972             Vice President, Bank of America, Karachi
Mr. Y.G.D. Gordon (Alternate
Director for Mr. D.S. Whittel 1975              General Manager in Pakistan, Grindlay Bank
* Mr. Jost E.C. Hildebrandt(Alternate
Director for Dr. Helmut                         Manager, European Asian Bank, Karachi
Bending)                       1 973
* Members of the Executive Committee
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LTD.
OUTLINE OF BUSINESS POLICIES
(Approved by the Board on 10/12/1964 and as amended on
11/3/1967, 30/9/1967, 7/12/70, 31/1/1974 and 25/8/1975)
1.   Objectives of the Corporation
(a) To stimulate the development of the country by providing finance
for the establishment of new industries as well as for the
balancing, modernisation and expansion of existing industries,
all in the private sector;
(b) To provide finance only for projects economically viable and
financially sound; and
(c) As far as possible, to assist in broadening the base of indus-
trial ownership in the country and thereby develop the Stock
Market.
2.   These objectives are carried out through:
(i) Investment Policy
(a) Finance are made available only for viable projects
which will contribute to the economic growth of the
country and to savings or earnings of foreign exchange.
For this purpose all projects are subjected to careful
examination through qualified staff and only those judged
economically viable, technically sound and financially
profitable are considered for assistance;
(b) Finance are made available to projects which are in
line with the development plans of the Government,
preference being given to projects largely based on
local raw materials;
(c) Financing is diversified, as far as possible, both as
regard different regions of the country and as regards
different industries and their ownership. Preference
is given to the financing of projects in the under-
developed areas of the country as long as they satisfy
the conditions of economic viability and financial
soundness;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(d) In accordance with the normal business practice,
adequate security is obtained to cover the loans but
in addition the main considerations are soundness of
management and projected profitability of the enter-
prise to cover repayments;
(e) The Corporation does not seek any controlling interest
in any enterprise financed by it but, consistent with the
safety of its interests, leaves the management and con-
trol in the hands of the entrepreneurs;
(f) Even after providing the finance, the projects are
carefully watched and those in difficulties are assisted
to the extent possible till the loans are repaid; and
(g) Corporation does not finance working capital requirements
by means of short term local currency loans. This business
is left to the commercial banks. In other respects also
PICIC does not compete with commercial banks.
(ii) Method of Financing
Corporation provides finance according to the suitability of each
project, in the form of -
(a) direct loans, mostly in foreign currencies;
(b) loans partly convertible into stock;
(c) direct equity participations; and
(d) under-writing of public issues.
(iii) Size of Loans
(a) As desired and/or approved by Government the Corporation
has reviewed the minimum limit for its lending operations.
These minimum limits, except where an enterprise is already
mortgaged with PICIC for an earlier loan or where per-
mitted by Government for special reasons, for the time
being are Rs 1.50 million for foreign currency and
Rs 2.50 million for local currency loans. However, for
under-developed areas (which are fully exempt from inci-
dence of customs duty on import of industrial plant and
machinery) the minimum limit for foreign currency loans
is Rs 750,000.
(b) PICIC shall normally limit its financial assistance in
any single transaction to not more than US$4 million.
PICIC shall normally limit its total commitment to any
single enterprise to the equivalent of 25% of PICIC's
net work or US$5 million whichever is the smaller.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
For the purposes of this limitation, the term "Total
Commitment" means the aggregate amount of all the out-
standing commitments of PICIC in such enterprise plus
the total amount of any proposed new commitment; both
amounts to be determined as of the date such new com-
mitment is proposed to be made. The Board may approve
transactions and commitments exceeding these limits in
exceptional cases after particularly rigorous project
appraisal and close and explicit scrutiny by PICIC's
Management and Board.
(iv) Exchange Risk
In granting foreign exchange loans (except in the case of sub-
loans from the first IBRD loan to PICIC where the foreign
exchange risk is covered by Government) the exchange risk is
passed on to the ultimate borrowers.
(v) Staff Recruitment and Training
(a) In order to strengthen its own management and staff as
well as to assist its clients in the formulation and
conduct of their projects, Corporation has continued to
build up an effective organization and develop an adequate
staff possessing skills in finance, marketing and economic
analysis, engineering, accountancy and law; and
(b) Corporation has been sending out members of its technical
staff for training at IBRD, IFC, Economic Development
Institute and other development financing agencies abroad;
at the same time Corporation has trained officers of
other institutions and is particularly ready to receive
for training officers from newly established development
banks for their initial training.
(vi) Reserves
The Corporation continues to build reserves consistent with sound
financial practices. In the past the practice has been to place
roughly 50% of the profits to reserves, in addition to capital
gains realised from the sale of investments and intention is to
continue this policy.
(vii) Broadening Industrial Owernship
(a) In the case of new as well as existing large industrial
enterprises, as a condition of financing, Corporation
has required that certain percentage of the share capital
is offered to the general public as a means to broaden
the base of industrial ownership;



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(b) The Corporation has, wherever practicable, made direct
equity investments or obtained conversion rights and then
sold some of its investments in the open market to further
the growth of the capital market. In selling any invest-
ments it pays due regard not only to its own interests but
also to the interests of other participants in such enter-
prise as well as to the steady and sound growth of stock
exchanges in the country; and
(c) It is the intention that the total equity investments
in various enterprises, either made directly or acquired
through conversion rights, is normally restricted to the
paid-up capital and free reserves of the Corporation.
(viii) Control over the Corporation
The Directors will use their powers to prevent any one person,
or company, or group of affiliated persons or companies obtaining
effective control of the Corporation.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Strategy Paper
(to be approved by PICIC's Board)
PICIC's main objective is development financing by way of pro-
viding credit facilities, equity support, and other assistance to private
industries in Pakistan. In view of the important role the private sector
can play in industrial development, PICIC intends to be guided in its
operations by the following priority principles over the next 2-3 years.
I.   Business Policy
(a) PICIC would confine itself to the financing of industries
controlled by the private sector;
(b) It is expected that the next Five Year Plan would soon
be announced by the Government setting forth the role and
scope of the private sector in the industrial field over the
period; PICIC would play its due role in the fulfillment
of objectives set out in the Plan;
(c) Every endeavour would be made to diversify PICIC's loan
portfolio in terms of industrial classification and
geographical location of projects so that PICIC's expo-
sure in any single category of industries such as textiles
is not unduly extended and special attention is paid to the
development of industries in comparatively under-developed
parts of the country;
(d) Promotional work with special efforts would be undertaken
to develop non-conventional industries such as mineral proces-
sing and electronics, and surveys would be carried out for that
purpose;
(e) New comers with sound financial backing and suitable
background would be encouraged to enter the industrial
field;
(f) Consistent with Government industrial policies, and subject
to the sponsors being suitable and credit-worthy, following
types of projects will be encouraged:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(i)  Projects based on domestic raw materials and
agricultural and industrial wastes;
(ii) Projects based wholly or substantially on
locally fabricated machinery;
(iii) Export oriented projects;
(iv) Projects for the manufacture of improved agricultural
implements and machines suitable for use by small
farmers to raise productivity of small holdings;
(v)  Other projects for raising agricultural productivity
generally such as manufacture of fertilizers, pumps,
sprayers, insecticides, pesticides and herbicides.
(g)  Except in very special cases, PICIC's maximum financial
exposure limit for individual projects would not be exceeded.
For projects requiring larger financing, efforts will be made
to associate other financing agencies such as IFC, CDFC
Islamic Development Bank, and other external agencies directly
lending to the private sector;
(h)  In order to ensure better and maximum utilization of existing
installed capacities, preference would be given to projects
for balancing, modernization and replacement of existing units
and their expansion in appropriate cases;
(i)  In view of the present situation in the textile industry,
emphasis will be on the financing of their balancing and modern-
ization requirements to improve the quality of products and
their competitiveness for export rather than on new capacity.
In order to make possible the maximum utilization of cotton
and synthetic yarn and increase exports of finished cloth,
new proposals for weaving and finishing would be considered.
In addition, those industries which use cotton and synthetic
yarn as raw material would also be extended financial assist-
ance;
(j)  Consistent with Government policies and procedures, foreign
private investment would be encouraged in fields where tech-
nical know how and managerial skills-are needed for the
successful operation of a project of national importance
(e.g. electronics, mineral processing, etc.). In such cases,
if so required, PICIC would help the foreign investors to
find suitable Pakistani partners and in some cases make
equity investment to support the capital base of the project;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(k) PICIC would not take over to run any project but it would help
to bring about change of management where this is essential for
the successful operation of a project.
II. Project Appraisal
(a) The standard of appraisal of projects would be substantially
improved and full benefits would be taken from experiences
of those projects which have encountered difficulties. For
this purpose, the functions of the Internal Audit Department
will be expanded to include evaluation of past operations.
(b) In order to increase the sponsor's financial stake in
the project and better protect PICIC financing, the debt/
equity ratio for all projects would be improved as much as
possible, and, normally, debt financing will not be exceed
60% of the total project cost;
(c) In appraising the projects from new comers or less experi-
enced persons, special emphasis would be given to assisting
sponsors to ensure adequate managerial and technical line up
for smooth implementation and successful operation of the
projects.
III. Implementation and Follow-up
(a) The functions relating to project implementation, supervi-
sion and follow-up have already been reorganized on a more
rational basis. It would now be possible to have closer
follow-up and supervision so as to identify and rectify
problems quickly of the individual projects not only
during course of construction but also after completion
and production till PICIC funds are repaid. Projects will
be visited at least once a year and more frequently when
loans are in arrears;
(b) New procedures have been devised for the procurement of
machinery under PICIC loans with a view to ensuring
most reasonable price and checking the possibility of over-
invoicing. This includes requiring that purchases be made
on the basis of international competitive bidding, where
appropriate.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
IV. Overdues
(a) PICIC is concerned with the problem of its overdues. In
this regard PICIC will continue to seek assistance from
the Government if problems arise concerning collections
from units now in the public sector or from commercial
banks for guarantees enforced. Further, Government is
considering a new law for the speedy recovery of overdues
of nationalized commercial banks and the Government has
already indicated that the new law, when enacted, would
also apply to recovery of PICIC overdues.
(b) PICIC has undertaken a project by project study of its
portfolio. On that basis, the targets for PICIC's total
collections (principal and interest) over the three-year
period are as under:
(i)  1976                                      Rs in '000s
(a)  actual up to 31/5/76        168,328
(b)  projected up to 31/12/76  186,300   354,628
(ii)  1977                                        373,000
(iii)  1978                                        391,638
(c) PICIC's Plan of action for solving the problem of over-
dues involves the following:
Rescheduling
(i) Rescheduling already agreed to has only been in
those cases where:
- the borrowers have made some down payment.
- have agreed to the revised repayment schedule;
and
- where PICIC management is satisfied that they
can be expected to keep to the revised schedule
of repayment.
(ii)  In all cases of rescheduling the borrowers are
required to execute a supplementary loan agreement
setting forth the revised schedule of repayment
and also agreeing to penal interest at the enhanced
rate of 4% so as to bring the total interest rate



ANNEX 7
Page 5
in line with the interest rate currently charged by
commercial banks, thereby leaving no incentive for
witholding payment.
(iii) This process holds good for the remaining cases
as well. The rescheduling program is expected to
be completed in the next 6-8 months.
Legal Cases
(i) Legal action will be taken in extreme cases after a
very careful selection so that the impact is felt
on others.
Other Actions
(i) All other leverages available to PICIC for collection
of dues from sponsors of defaulting companies are now
strictly enforced. When appropriate, PICIC imposes
changes in some projects (for example, new management)
to improve their operations.
V. General
(a) PICIC is conscious of the professional staff turn-over problem
specially after the oil boom in the Middle East Countries. In
order to tackle this problem, PICIC is already following a
systematic policy of fresh recruitments on a periodical
basis for the development of its professional staff and pro-
motions and adjustments so that the vacancies are promptly
filled in as far as possible from within the organization
without adversely affecting the quality and flow of work. In
addition, it is also planned to review the emoluments of the
staff in the light of prevailing conditions and PICIC's
financial position;
(b) Through various Government Committees on which PICIC is
represented, close contact is kept with various Government
departments and agencies connected with the development of
industries in the country. Where a particular industrial
sector of the country is adversely affected, PICIC takes up
the matter with the Government for appropriate remedial
measures.
August 16, 1976



ANNEX 8
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Main Terms and Conditions for Assistance
(as of August 16., 1976)
Interest rate on rupee loans:          (a) 12.5% and 1% p.a; the 12.5% rate applies
to projects located in less developed
areas. A 0.5% rebate is given for loans
carrying convertibility features.
(b) 9.5% p.a. in respect of loans for financing
locally fabricated equipment and refinanced
under the special refinancing facility of
up to Rs 50 million extended by the State
Bank of Pakistan.
Interest rate on foreign currency    (a) 11.00Z p.a. for subloans under latest ADB
loans:                                    loan
(b) ln.57 p.a. for all other foreign loans
(bilateral).
Commitment charge:                     1.5% per annum on undisbursed amounts, com-
mnencing 30 days after the date of sanction
(60 days in respect of projects in less deve-
loped areas). This charge increased to 2%
p.a. when the loarn is not utilized I/ within 6
months from the date of sanction (9 months in
respect of projects in less developed areas).
Letter of credit opening canmissionr 0.25% of theletter of credit outstanding in tle
first quarter plus 0.12w% in the subsequent
quiarters.
Project examination fee:               0.550 of the financial assistance sanctioned
(0.38%if the project will be located in a less
developed area and involves creation of new
capacity requiring PICIC financing up to Rs
2.5 million) Tf financial assistance is not
sanctioned, the amount received as project
examination fee is refunded in full.
Underwriting ccmrission:               2.5% of the amount underwritten plus 2.5%
of amounts taken up.
Penalty changes:                           p.a. over the applicable rate of interest
or State Bank Rate whichever is the higher
on amounts overdue.
Insurance comnission:                  Marine policies   -  15% of the premium
Erection policies -  20% of the premium
Fire policies      -  5% of the premium
Accident policies - 20% of the premium
1/ Letters of credit in respect of foreign currency loans and actual dis-
bursement in the case of rupee loans.
August 16, 1976



ANNEX 9
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AIID INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Resource Position as of December 31, 1975
Domestic Currencv:                                                             (Rs million)
Equity                                                                              228.3
Reserves for doubtful accounts                                                       72.6
r(overnrent 1 oans 1/                                                                21*8
USATID loan 2/                                                                       30.C
Rupee debentilres                                                                   175 .6
State Pank of Pakistan cash credit 3/                                               ?75.0
State Pank of Pakistan credit for lo-al machin /ry V                                 'o o
Total. domestie currency resources                                               85s,
Advances to staff                                               6.7
1. oans outstanding                                            6B.5
Equity investments                                             76.7
c-overnment securities                                         11..6
Excess of outstanding loans in foreign currercy over
foreign currency borrowings 5/                              334.5
-nvestment in other net current assets (except cash)
and fixed assets                                         1ll1.2                639.2
Domestic currency resources available for disbursement                            21L.1
Loans and underwritings committed but not d.l-sbursed                                 26.9
Dor:estic currency resources available for commitment                             187.2
loans and underwritings approved but not conmiit-ted                                  1 9.2
lorkestic currency resources available for a )proval and debt servicine           1   ..
iFre-Ign Currenjcy:                                                            (' r:illi on)
,hare capital (paid in foreifn c.urrer.;)                                             I, .
'  loans                                                                          20) .0,
&U'ter loans
Suppliers' cr edits                                                                  7 .1
Total. foreign exchange resources                                               L92.9
Loans disbursed:    East Pakistani                            102.7
,lest Paki stan                         337.2                 439.9
FI-elgn exehange resources avai ,a) o f-  di-stursement                            `3.0
:ioans coruni t.ted hut. not di sb irs -..                                           34.6
1Eorepfn exchange resour2--s nvai al: for,  o n-itment                             18.1
Toans approved but not oo1rit.t.ed                                                   51,.7
Foreign exchange resources available for approval                                 (6*7)
I/ Sibnrdi.nated Cto share caci ta !.
2/ Subordinated to other de51 .
3/ O f which, Rs 129.? r I...i olnI  Veeli disbursed.
It/C r Tf rl   T-S 9. rMi n ! noL }    r een  disbursed.
5/ T1 e arount of' domestic currency -rEcsources PICIC has had to use for payments of
fore-ign  ulrrenev borrowmn ,s due to delavs irn repayments hy PTCIiC's clients.
March 31, 1976



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Details on Foreign Currency Loans and Credits
obtained as of December 31 , 1975/
($ million)
Amount                                             Prior approval
No. of   Years of    Total       East 3/  West           Unallocated   Interest   of sub-projects   Repayment
Loans & Lines of Credits           Loans    Agreement   Pakistan   Pakistan   Pakistan         Balance       Rate      required           Schedule
IBRD                                   9      19U7)-'      208.36      72.89      135.147         0.03          - 714   Over $3.0 million  1962-924
(in respect of
last loan)
KFW                                    9      19o2-1a       70.06       8.24        61.82         1.09      5 _ 6    Over DM 2.0 mill- Linked to sub-
ion                projects
Export Import Bank (USA)               2      1969-70        A .37      0.62         7.75          -        6          $150,000             1972-79
(First loan only)
Asian Bank                             3      1970-72       15.12        -          15.12         0.19      72        No                   1974-88
Private Banks Loans                    3      1970-71        7.33       2.22         5 .11         -        7          No                   1973-83
European Loans                       1       1962-7rW      51.05       3.26        47.79         6-97      5 - 8.5   Over L240O.000       1965-2000
for 4th UK
Credit only
American Loans (US AID)                1      1958-61       21.421      3.70        17.724         -        5 - 5     Over $250,000        1959-74
Japanese Loan-                         a      1961 -70      31.98       7.46      .2L.52           _           - 6    No                   1967-81
Total Foreign Currency Loans       51                   413.71       98.39       315.32         8.28
Suppliers' Credits
European  Credit                      14      1963-75       62.71      L2.36        58.35         3.03      51x2 - 61x,   No                Linked to
(Excluding Easter European)                                                                                                                Sub-projects
Eastern European Credits               5      1963-70       11.12        -          11.12          -        5 - &    No                     -do-
Japanese Credit (TOYOMENKA)            1      1970           1.30        -           1.30          -        6           No                    -do-
Total Suppliers' Credits          20                     75.13        .37        70.77         3.03
Total of Foreign Currency
Loans and Suppliers' Credits    71                    )'8         102.75       386.09        11,31
1/ Out of the total foreign currency borrowings of $2489 million, IBRD accounts for 43%, KfW for 124%, ADB for 3%, loans and
credits received by GOP and relent to PICIC (excluding KfW) for 17%, loans and credits arranged by GOP and allocated to PICIC for  5%,
suppliers credits arranged by UOP and allocated to PICIC for 12%, loans froir financial institutions negotiated and obtained by PICIC for 2%
and private suppliers credits arranged by PICIC for )ld                                                                                                    O
i/ Net of Cancellation.
3/ Actual amount utilized for former East Pakistan.
March 31, 1976



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Rupee Resources and Terms as on December 31, 1975
Year of    Amount      Interest  Total   Grace
Sources/Loans                        Agree-      (Rs in      Rate       Term    Period   Repayment
LOANS AND ADVANCES                   memt        million)   _           (Years) (Years)  Schedule
Government Advances-/
21
1st Advance                         1957        30.00       Free        30       15    1972-1986,;
2nd Advance                         1961        29.01       h           ho        h    1965-2001z/
3rd Advance                         1967         9.95       5.5o0       h         h    1969-2O05i-
hth Advance                         1968        10.00       6           20       15    198h-1988B-
5th Advance                         1974        15.00       8.25        -------Not known-----_
6th Advance                         1974         3.60       8.25        ---------do_-_______
Capitalized Interest                             6.13
-      (total excludes Rs 81.93 million
Total Government Advances                      21.76   allocated to liabilities in Bangladesh
now incorporated into equity)
US AID - PL 48o /                   1966        30.00       5.5o        20       10    1976-1986
State Bank of Pakistan
Revolving Cash Credit:
I                                   1973       125.00       9*           5        -          1976
II                                   1975        50.00       9*           5        -          1980
III                                   1975       100.00       9*           5        -          1980
Special Credit for Local
Machinery                          1973        50.00       7.50        11        5    1977-1983
Total State Bank Credits                      325.00-
Rupee Debentures
1st Series                          1971        20.00       7.50         5        5    1976 (one
instalment)
2nd Series                          1972        65.63       8.50F/       7       3.50  1975-1979
3rd Series                          1972        90.00       9   -        8        3    1976-1980
Total Rupee Debentures                        175.63
Total Loans and Advances                      552.39
Owners' Equity
Share Capital (in local currency)              1h7 98
Reserves                                       180.027/(includes write-back of Rs 81.93 million
as Bangladesh Rupee assets no longer
assiumed to be financed from equity)
Undistrihuted earnings                           0.29
Net Owners' Equity                            228.29
Reserves for doubtful accounts                  72.58
853.26    (* Actual. Bank Rate)
1/ 3uborainatea to ali otner dents and share capital of PICIC.
2/ These are original repayment schedules.  Government of Pakistan since decided to defer
repnyments of all these loanz upto 199h.  Thereafter, Rs 81.93 million transferred to
liabilities in Bangladesh and written-h'i7k into PTCIC's reserves.
3/ Subordinated to all foreign currency debts.
1/ Total draw down on December 31, 1975 was Rs 138.91 million.
7/ Government gives PICIC an interest subsidy of 2% on this debenture issue. Net interest
cost to PICIC therefore amounts to 7%.
6/ Government gives PICIC an interest subsidy of 2% on this debenture issue. Net interest
cost to PICIC therefore amounts to 7%.
7/ Includes revaluation surplus of Rs 21.67 million not taken to income.
March 31, 1976



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION UIMITED
Summary of Loan Operations j/ 1958 to December 31, 1975
kRs in Million)
1958                                                                 1958
to                                                                   to
LOCAL CURRENCY                   1970       1971        1972       1973        1974        1975        1975
Gross Sanctions               118.97       38.1I       10.)41     38.67       38.53       )0.67     285.39
Net Sanctions 2/               72.31       17.8)4       6.93      21.86       24.35       39.29      182.58
Cormitted                      52.0h       35.18        8.87      11.93       13.45       21.06     142.53
Disbursed                      49.85       27.R6       15.18      10.01        5.31        8.74     116.95
Repayments                     13.24       17.91        3.11       2.32        6.50        5.42       48.50
Outstanding (end of period  / 36.61        46.56       5863       66.32       65.13       68.45      68.45
FOREIQG CURRENCY Lh/
Gross Sanctions             3,889.17      239.74       31.03     455.28      450.40      274.51   5,30.13
Net Sanctions               3,060.26       85.28        6.61     427.30      359.43      271.42   4,210.30
Conmaitted                  2,895.98      126.87      (24.35)     75.02      338.44      268.70   3,680.66
Disbursed                   2,342.12      381.26      166.83      43.65       92.78      311.62   3,338.26
Repayments                3/  758.12      10t7.77     106.29     161.89      197.32      19L.73   1,566.12
Outstanding(end of periodJ 1,584.00   1,817.49   1,878.03   1,759.79   1,655.25  1.772.14   1,772.14
TOTAL.
Gross Sanctions             4,008.14      277.88       41-44     493.95      488.93      315.18   5,625.52
Net Sanctions 3/            3,132.57      103.12       13.54     449.16      383.78      310.71   4,392.88
Committed                   2,948.02      162.05      (15-48)     86.95      351.89      289.76   3,823.19
Disbursed                   2,391.97      409.12      182.01      53.66       98.09      320.36   3,455.21
Repayments               3/   771.36      165.68      109.40     164.21      203.82      200.15   1,614.62
Outstanding(aid of perlxd)~ 1,620.61   1,864.05   1,936.66   1,826.11   1,720.38   1.840.59   1,840.59
1/ West Pakistan only.
2/ Cancellations are deducted in the year the loan was approved/committed.
3/ After deducting payments received in advance.
3/ At exchange rate Rs 9.9 = US$1.0.
March 31, 1976



PAKISTAN INDUSThIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Summary of Underwriting and Equity Operations-1958 to September 30. 1975
(Rs in thousands)
1958-1969    1969       1970       1971       1972       :1973      1974   Sept. 30.1975          TOTAL
Amount    Amount     Amount    Amount    Amount       Amount   Amount    Amount                Amount
UNDERWRITING
Commitments                           65,757    13,975     15,200      17,800          _        600      1,900          -            70,289
Take ups                              11,151     5,702       3,599        398          -          -       477           -            10,969
Commitments at the end of period      34,925    13,775     20,925      37,475      9,875      3,550      5,950          -             5,950
EQUITY PARTICIPATIONS
Underwriting take-ups                 11,151     5,702       3,599        393          -          -       477           -              ,144z/
Exercise of options                   29,758     2,787      15,342      5,627      1,104      3,200          -      2,956            30,724 1/
Direct investments                    14,075     2,891       2,500      4,038      1,500        500          -          -             9,357 1/
Purchases                              8,635    1L,629       4,018     23,226          -          -        583          -            32,506 T/
Total acquisition                     63,619    26,009      25,459     33,284      2,604      3,700      1,060      2,956            76,7311/
Opening portfolio                          -    52,077      65,909     80,224     68,856     71,210    73,898      73,775
63,619    78,0B6     91,368    113,508     71,460      7h,910    74,958    .76,731             76,731
Sold during the year (cost)           11,542    12,177      11,144     18,305        250      1,012      1,183          -
Closing portfolio                     52,077    65,909      80,224     95,203     71,210     73,898    73,775      76,731
Less: Portfolio in Bangladesh                                          26.347
L/ This column represents the net holdings under the respective portfolio category.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN II=DUSTRTAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Characteristics of PICIC's Operations
1.        Sectoral distribution.  Table 1 shows the sectoral distribution of
PICIC's outstanding portfolio of loans and equity investments. The distribution
has not changed much since 1973 with the textile sector accounting for 45%. The
sugar industry accounts for 17%, paper (8%), food processing (7%), engineering (65),
chemicals (5%), jute (2%), cement, ceramics and glass (2%), minerals (2%) and
miscellaneous industries (5%). Table 2 shows the characteristics of PICIC's
loan approvals. Cotton and other textiles accounted for 36% of total approvals
during 1974 and 1975, compared with 69% during 1973, and sugar for 18% and 16%
respectively. The proportional decrease in textiles financing after 1973 is
because PICIC since then started to put increased emphasis on balancing and
modernization projects for cotton spinning rather than new projects. The de-
crease in financing textiles was partially offset by increases in hotels,
leather, rubber products, ceramics, glass and asbestos cement.
PICIC's promotional activities are discussed in paras 4z.08 and 4.09 (text).
2.        Size of loans. As PICTC operates in the large and medium scale
industrial sector, the average size of its loans has been relatively high, Rs
11.5 million in 1973, Rs 16.1 million 1/ in 1974 and Rs 11.2 million in 1975.
However, after adjusting for the 1972 rupee devaluation, the average size was
already Rs 11 million in 1970. Taking into account the high rate of inflation
both domestically and internationally, the average size of PICIC's loans has
not grown since then. This is due to the recent nationalizatious which have re-
duced the number of large scale industrial projects open to the private sector
and also reflects the hesitation among industrialists to enter into new large-
scale ventures (para 2.08 text).
3.        Geographical distribution.  PICIC has continued its efforts to
diversify the regional distribution of its portfolio.  Un to June 30, 1973
approvals were allocated as follows:  Sind 15%, Punjab 44%, NWFP 8% and
Baluchistan 3%. Since then to September 30, 1975, the distribution was:
Sind 38%, Punjab 48%, NWFP 11%, Baluchistan 1% and Islamabad 2%. The increased
activity in NWFP is due to PICIC's promotional efforts  although the Provincial
Government is reserving a number of other potential projects identified by
PTCTC for the public sector.  The low level of investment in Baluchistan is
explained by the political uncertainty in the region, though the situation
might improve in the longer run due to its potential for mining, which might
attract additional private investment. Between 1973 and 1975, some 60% o? approvals
for new and expansion proj ects were in areas classified as underdeveloped
or semi-developed.
4.        Diversification of clientele.  PICTC's attempts to continue diver-
sifying its clientele are also satisfactory. Up to September 30, 1975, PICIC
had approved loans in (West) Pakistan aggregating Rs 4.l billion (at the present
exchange rate) for 645 projects and )i51 clients. Some 76% of these clients
(compared to 72% as of June, 1973) have received only one loan. Tay amounts,
reneat loans as of September 30, 1975 accounted for 275 of total lendinru  cormared
with 30% as of Jurne, 1973. Out of the 89 projects financed by PTCTC dur;nrg
1973 to September 30, 1975 5 were new projects (Table 2). 2/ Of these '
1/  The inerease in 197!! is explained by two large sugar projects and 3 hotel
projects.
2/  nBT amrounts, new T)rojects accoint-cd for 9!% in 1971,, 7   i n 197)h and 5? in
1975, ex-ansinn nrojects resperti2velyv or )!%, 1hz, and 31<1v and balanrin-
and -oderni:ration projects for 2'. 115. and 12d.



A1TEX 14
Page 2
projects, 20 were sponsored by newcomers to industry.
5.        Maturities of loans.  Over 90 (by anount) of the loans approved since
1973 have maturities of between 10 and 15 years. Previously, about 65% had
maturities of between 5 and 10 years and about 305' had maturities from 10 to 15
years. The increasing trend in the repayment period of PTCTC's loans is explained
mainly by the reduced proportion of balancing and modernization projects recently
financed. It is also due to a GOP request that PTCIC attempt to shortern the
difference between the maturities of its sub-loans with those of the foreign
exchange borrowings by GOP allocated to PICIC, to minimize GOP's foreign exchange
risk. PICIC has by now abandoned this practice and is determining the terms of
its loans on the basis of the nature of the investment -roject and the debt
servicing capability of the enterprise.
6.        Local currency financing. Due to resource constraints and to the
weak capital markets, PICIC's equity investments were only Rs 7.7 million between
1973-75. of which 80% was obtained through exercise of options, 8% through market
purchases, 6% through direct investments, and 6% through underwriting take-ups.
Its local currency approvals (net) for that period were Rs 86 muillion or 8% of
its total loan approvals.  The low proportion of local currency loans is because
most of these funds come from the sponsors' contribution to the project cost
and also because of PICIC's domestic resource constraints. The bulk of PICIC's
local currency loans are given out of a special refinance scheme introduced by
SBP in October, 1972.  The objective of this scheme is to encoura,e the demand
for locally fabricated machinery.  It provides for concessionary  financin- by
PICYC and TDBP for local sales and by commercial banks for exports (&TFC also
participates in a similar scheme).  PICTC has been allorated a refinance limit
of Rs 50 million, although as the utilization of these funds imriroved recently
(1975) it is expected to be increased shortly.  ITp to December 31, 1975, PTCTC
had approved loans under this scheme for Rs 76 million, of whieb Rs 35 million
had been committed and Rs 10 million disbursed. The lending rate bv PICIC is
now 9.5% (1% below its foreign currency rending rate) and it. obtains refinance
at 7.5%. The terms of refinance are related to the terms of the loan sanctioned
by PICIC subject to a maximur of 10 years maturity, though PICTC may finance for
a longer period if found appropriate
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Sectoral Distribution of Loan and Equit;y Portfolio as of September 30, 1975
(Rs in million)
West Pakistan Only
LOAN PORTFOLIO       EQUITY PORTFOLIO       TOTAL
Industrial Sector                Amount      t        Anount        %      Amount       %
Jute Processing & Manufactures    33.1       1.9        5.49        7.2     38.59       2.1
Cotton & Other Textiles           805.3    45.4        22.84       29.8    828.14      44.7
Sugar                             297.7    16.8        13.06       17.0    310.76      16.8
Food Products & Processing        128.8      7.3        1.76        2.3    130.56       7.1
Engineering                       108.2      6.1        5.55        7.2    113.75       6.1
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals        9h.8      5.3        1.58        2.0     96.38       5.2
Cement, Ceramics & Glass           43.9      2.5        1.00        1.3     44 90       2.4
Board, Paper, Paper Products      138.7      7.8        2.88        3.8    141.58       7.7
and Printing
Minerals                           3h.2      1.9       10.02       13.1     44.22       2.4
Miscellaneous                      89.2      5.0       12.55       16.3    101.75       5.5
Total                     1,773.9   100.0        76.73      100.0  1,850.63    100.0
March 31, 1976



PPaSTTAN INIDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMEN1T CORPORATION LIMITED
Ccsparative Statement of Loans Approved 1/ 1958 September 340. 1975
(Rs in mlon)
1958-7.5
1958-70                 1911972                                  1973                  1974+          IM9 ( .3               (Sept.30)
No.  Ionouot  ~b  No.   lmilt    76No.  Amount   8)  No.  Amount               B o.  Amount    8   No.   Amount.t30       NO.Aount
SIZE OP LOANS
Below No 500,000                      52     23.8  0.7'   -       1.5   1.4    -       0.3   2.2    1       2.5    0.5    3       4.1    1.1    -      2.7   0.9   56       34.9   0.8
R. 500,000 to Rs 999,999              98    92.9  2.9    1        1.2   1.2    -         -      -   2       5.3    1.2    -      1.6   0.4    2        2.3   0.8  103    103.3   2.4
No 1,000,000 to R. 2,499,999         107   210.0   0.6    3      11.1  10.8    2       7.7  57.0    6    13.8   3.1    3        12.6   3.3    6       18.4   6.3  127   273.6   6.2
Rs 2,500,000 to No 4,999,999         112    403.5  12.5    2     10.9  10.6    1       5.5  40.8    8    52.2  1i.6    4        4o.4  10.4    7    26.8   9.2  134    539.3  12.3
No 5,000,000 to REB 9,999,999         95    657.3 '20.3    1      7.0   6.8          -       -       5    52.0  1.1.6    6      46.6  12.0    3    39.3  13.4  110    82. 2  18.3
Ns 10,000,000 & above                 78  1745.1  54.o    4      71.4  69.2    -         -      - 17   324.0  72.0    8    281.9  72.8    8   202.8  69.4  115  2625.2  60.0
TOTAL.         542   3132.6 100.   12   103.1  100.0    3    13.5  100.0  39   449.8 100.0  24    387.2  1-00.0  26   2902.3 100.0  '645  4+378.5 100.0
INDUSTRIAL CATANGORY
Jute Proes...ing                       5     94.2   3.0    -        -      -   -         -      -    1      3.5    0.8    -         -      -    -        -      -     6     97.7  2.2
Cottmon Sd Other Textiles            183  1243.8  39.7    5      74.1  71.9    -       3.0  22.2  21    31-1.0o  69.1    8    125.2  32.3  12    120.3  41.1  229   1877.4 342.9
Sugar                                 40    632.0  20.    1       3.7   3.6    1       2.0  14.8    3    72.4  16.1    2        4+6.2  11.9    3    78.8  27.0   50    835.1  l9.j
Food Pr~oducts & Processing           81   211.7  6.8    2       10.0   9.7    1       2.0  14.8    1       219   o.6    2       9.5    2.5    1       2.2   0.8   88    238.3   5.4
Engineering                           80    208.4   6.7    -        -      -   -         -      -   2       6.2    1.4    -         -      -    2      4+.5   1.5    84    219.1  5.0
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals           1+0   165.3   5.3    2      9.2   8.9    -         -      -    3      7.9   1.8    1       4.9    1.3    3    26.1   8.9   1+9   213.4   4.9
Cement, ceramics Sod Glass            19   100.6  3.2    -          -      -   -         -      -    1    17.7   3.9    2       35.8    9.3    3      54.6  18.7    25    208.7   4.8
Paper, Paper Products & Printing      35   235.1   7.5    -       3.0   2.9     -      1.0   7.4    -       0.2    0.1    1     52.0  13.4    -          -      -    36   291.3   6.7
Inland water transport & shipping      2     80.i  2.6    -         -      -    -               -    -        -      -    1      o.4    0.1    -         -     - -    3    80.5   1.8
M4iscellaneous                        57   161.4  5.1    1        3.1   3.0   1        -5.5  _40.8   7 _28.0    6.2    7   1.13.2  29.2    2           5.8   2.0    75   317.0  7.2
TOTAL         542  3132.6 100.   11    103.1  100.0   3    13.5 100.   39   449.8 100.0  24    387.2 100.0  26   292.3 100.0   645~  4378.5 100.0
GEOGRAPHlICAL SPREAD
Sind                                 283   1397.7  4+4.6    7    37.7  36.6    1       2.0  14.8  14   186.5   4i.5  13    162.7  42.0    9    116.6  39.9  327   1903.2  43.5
Pnj ab                               209   1396.8  44.6    1     38.8  37.6    2      11.2  83.0  15   186.1  41.4    6    165.4  42.7   10   1.43.4  49.1  21+3  1941.7  44.3
N.W.F.P.                              41    229.4   7.3    3    26.6  25.8    -          -      -   8    66.7  14.8    5         42.0  10.9    4    23.2    7.1   61    387.9  8.9
Baluchistan                            6    100.1  3.2    -         -      -    -      0.3   2.2    1       0.3    0.1    -       3.6    0.9    3      9.1    3.1   10    113.4  2.6
Isl smabad (Capital)                  .2      8.6  0.3    -         -      -   -         -      -    1     10.2   2.2    -      13.5    3.5    -        -      -      4     32.3  0.7
TOTAL          542  3132.6 100.0  11   103.1 100.0    3    13.5 100.0  39   1+49.8 100.0  24    387.2 100.0  26   292.3 100.    645~ 4378.5 100.0
NATURE OP PROJECT
New Projects (including expansion)    292   2336.0  74.6    6    45.5  44.1    3      13.5  1,00.0  34+  440.2  97.9   21    34+5.4  89.2   18   258.8  88.5   374   3439.4  78.6,
Existing Projects                    250   796.6 25.4   5        57.6  55.9   -          ..     -    5      9.6   2.1   3       41.8  10.8    8       33.5  11.5  271   939.1 21.4
TT0~AL         542  3132.6 100.0  11   103.1 100.0   3    13.5 100.0  39   449.8  i00.o  24   387.2 100.0  26   22. 3 100. 0  64+5  4378.5 100.0
NeW Projects (excluding expansion)   218   1908.5  6o.9   4+    27.4  26.6    2       11.2  83.0  29   424.5  94.4  14    291.0  75.2  1.2   166.9  57.1  279  2829.5  64.6
Balancing, ModernIzation, & Expansion  324  1224.1 39:1   7      75.7  73.4+   1       2.3  17.0  10    25.3   5.6  10          96.2  24.8  14   125.4  42.9  366  1549.0 35.34
TOTAL          542  3132.6 100 0   1     103.1 100.0   3       13.5 100.0  39   449.8 100.0  24   387.2 100.0  26   292.3- 100.0  64s5  4378.5 100.0
New Companies                        176  1.666.3  53.3   4+    27.1  26.3    1        8.2  60.7  28   421.8  93.8   11   251.2   64.9   12    166.6  57.0  232  254+3.2  58.1
Exisoting Ccumpanies                 366  1464.3 46.7   7        76.0  73.7   2        5.3  39.3  11       28.0   6.2  13   136.0  35.1  14   125.7  43.0  413  1.835.3 1+1.9
TOTAL          542  3132.6 100.0  u1   103.1 100.0    3    13.5  100.0  39   449.8 100.0  24   387.2 100.0  26   292.3 1.00.0  6-45  4378.5 100.0
LOCAL VS. FOREIGN CURRENCY:
Local Currency                        37    72.4  2.3    3       17.8  1-7.3    2      6.9  51.1    5    21.9    4.9    5        25.0   6.5    2      38.8  13.3   54    182.8  4.2
Foreign Currency                     503  3060.2 97.7   8        85.3  82.7   1        6.6  48.9   4   427.9  95.1  19   362.2  93.5  24   253.5  86.7  591  4195.7 95.8
TOTAL         542  313i2.6 100.0    1 13.   0.    3            13.5 100.0   9   449.8 1.00.0  24    387.2 100.0  26   292.3 100.0  645  4378.5 100.0
TERMS OP LOANS:
Up to 5 years                          -    133.9  4.3    -      12.4  12.0    -       6.9  51.1    -      17.4    3.9     -      1.1   0.3    -       2.5    0.9     -   174.2   4.0
5 to 10 years                              1999.6 63.8    -      42.1  40.9     -      6.6  48.9    -       9.1   2.0    -       34.0    8.8    -     38.5  13.2      -  2129.9  48.6
Over 10 yea's-                              999.1 31.9    -      48.6  47.1 -            -           -   423.3  94.1   -    352.1  90.9   -   251.3  86.0             -  2074.4 47.4
TOTAL            -312. 6 100.0   -    103.1 100.0   -          13.5  100.0   -   449.8 100.0  --   387.2 100.0    -   292.3 100.0    -47.  0.
W-st Pakistan only; figures are shown aE1 the curren. sxchan6r rate of is 9.9 a :s$1,0
Mh,rsh 31, 1976



ANN EX 15
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Rates of Return for Projects Sanctioned between July, 1973 and September, 1975
Industrial
CateoUry            Financial Rate of Return (%)       Economic Rate of Return (fl
No.   Min.   Max.   Average-/  No.   Min.   Max.   Average
Cotton Textiles      19    12.8   32.0    15.1          ll    12      25      17.1
Other Textiles       14    11.5   30.0    16.5           9    10      50      25.3
Brick Plants          5    12.5   21.6    16.3           3   14.5   23.5      18.0
(&) Ceramics
Match Factories       2    25.0   25.0    25.0           -       -      -         -
Cigarettes            3    20.5   39.0   30.8            2   25.0   50.0      37.5
Hotels                3    11.6   16.7    13.4           3   16.1   214.14    19.2
Sugar                 3    13.5   14.7   114.0           2   28.6   34.0      31.3
Tanneries             3    13.1   16.2    15.1           1   36.0   36.0      36.0
Plastic Products      2    16.4   16.4    16.14          1   26.0   26.0      26.0
Others               12    10.0   30.0    17.3           9   13.0   24.0       17.8
TOTAL         66    10.0   39.0    16.8          141   10.0   50.0      21.6
1/ By number of projects
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 16
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Agreement between the Government of Pakistan and PICIC
Regarding the Problem of PICIC's Assets and Liabilities in Bangladesh
AGREEMENT dated                     , 1976, between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter called "?the Government") and the PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED (hereinafter called
"PICIC").
The Government and PICIC have agreed as follows:
(a) The Government will continue to provide to the Trust
Fund established by the Agreement between the Government
and PICIC dated December 20, 1972, the necessary resources
to service the external debt liabilities of PICIC which
are still outstanding in PICIC's books in respect of
its Bangladesh assets for as long as this is required
to be done consistent, where applicable, with the debt
rescheduling agreements already finalized.
(b) The Government will not require the Trust Fund or PICIC
to repay in respect of its Bangladesh assets all or any
part of the resources provided by the Government to the
Trust Fund, including any interest thereon, until such
time as PICIC recovers its assets from Bangladesh, and
if so, the Government will only require PICIC to repay
to the extent of such recovery.
(c) The Government will not require PICIC to repay all or any
part of PICIC's local currency debts to the Government
(Rs 82 million) allocated to PICIC's local currency assets
in Bangladesh including any interest thereon, until such
time as PICIC recovers the related assets from Bangladesh,
and if so, the Government will require PICIC to repay only
to the extent of such recovery.
This AGREEMENT is supplemental to, and, to the extent necessary,
in modification of, the Agreement executed by the parties hereto on the
20th day of December, 1972.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereinto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names as of the day and year first above
written.



PAKISTAN INDPJSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTNDNT CORPORATION LIMITED
Trends in Arrears, 1969 to 1975
(Ps in millions)
I. ARREARS OVER 3 MONTHS
No. of Companies    Total Number    % of Companies       Principal Outstanding         Principal and Interest          Principal in Arrears     Principal Outstanding
In Arrears         of Companies      In Arrears            by Projects                     in Arrears                   As $ of Total          Affected by Arrears as
As of December 31                                                          (1)   (2)             in Arrears              2i  1      Interest      Total     Loar Outstanding         % of Total Loans Outstanding
1969                                 21                223                9                    13.41               1.92         1.57         3.49           0.3                            2.3
1970                                 41                254               i6                    24.93               4.74         3.72         8.46           0.7                            3.5
1971                                 82                263               31                   212.36              11.31        13.81        25.12           1.3                           25.0
1972                                188                275               68                 1,258.13             126.42       109.07       235.49           6.4                           63.7
1973                                154                268               57                 1,094.27             168.91       139.31       308.22           9.2                           59.8
1974                                137,               286               48                 1,059.25             239.27       177.47       416.74          13.9                           61i5
1975                                116%'              274"              43                 1,010.00              261.43      195.21       456.64          14.7                           -l4 9
Notes:
1. The following shows loans rescheduled by PICIC during the period:               *           *                     *
1971          1972        1973        1974         1975 (9 mos.)
Number of loans rescheduled                    12            2            54          13             10
Amount rescheduled                              4.74          4.42        82.66       28.23          79.99
Principal outstanding of loans rescheduled    150.69        38.67        416.56      105.14          86.10
* The amount in arrears by companies which were allowed rescheduling during 1973-75 was Rs 126 million as of Septmber 30, 1975, which shows that recent
reschedulings made by PICIC were not realistic (para 5.08).
2. During May 1972, the rupee devalued from $1 z Rs 4.76 to $1 Rs llOOand then revalued to $1- Rs 9.9 in February 1973.
As of September 30, 1975.
March 31, 1976



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMEN  CORPORATION 1MUITED
Anmlysis of Arrears overi3 Moth__so&     spese 3.11
e                                           (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rs In thousands)
A. AOle OF AR2FA2
A. AGE OF ARREARS                                           ~~~~~~~~~~Amount In  Arrears                           Principal         Principal Outstandng as 5of
io. of p Ccni           PrTh6Ipes          Interest         Total        5 Of Total              Outstanding           Total Loan Portfolio
I - Loans Ber,%iginS
Regul- ly e                        156                                                                                           992,960                    55.85
II - Loans in Arrears                   U6
3-6 months                                               17.817            15,037          32,854          8.12                   84 871                     4.77
6.12 nOntha                                              52,551            46,747          99,298         24.53                  192,835                    10.85
12-18 months                                             68 830            33,101         101,931         25.18                  194,538                    10.94
18-24 months                                             33,950            24,938          58,888         14.55                  U6,805                      6.57
Over 24 months                                           63,675            48,141         111,816         27.62                  195,963                    U.02
Total                        272                 236,823           167,964         404,787        100.00                1,777,972                   100.00
B. INDUSTRIAL AND AOGWISE DISTRIBFIYO OF PRINCIL OUWTAZ2ND  AFF2TZD BY ARREARS
Principal Outstnding Affected          Principal and Interest in
by Arrears as % of Total 1oe8q         Arrears as 5 or, Total Loans
24 msoths          12-24 moths         6.12 months       3-6 months          Total             f of Total           bytArre         by e e  I tT tr :       Outstanding by eech Induatryl
Jute Processing                                     -                   -                        14 237           14 237               1.8                           42.9                                    9.7
Cotton and Other Textiles              98,391              157,851             101,116           19,007          376,366              47.9                           46.7                                   25.1
Sugar                                   37,668              511451              49,732           30,899          169,750              21.6                           57.0                                   20.4
Food Products and Processing           24,875               18,778              11,400              305           55,359               7.1                           43.0                                   22.5
Ensineering                             5,299               43,058               3,072              224           51,652               6.6                           47.8                                   40.0
Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals          10 302                7,543               4,026            2,228           24,098               3.1                           25.4                                   27.3
Cemnt, Ceramics & Glas                  15,847               7,483               2,408              909           26,648               3.4                           60.6                                   50.1
Board, Paper, Paper Products and
Printing                               2,091                4 760               4 639              817           12,306               1.6                            8.9                                    5.0
Transport and Shipping                    -                  50654               8,780           16,245           30,089               3.8                           88.o                                   18.4
Nicellaneous                             1,490              15,355               7 662             -              24,5G7               3.1                           27.5                                    5.8
Total                       195,963             311,343             192,835           84,871          785,012             100.0                            44.2                                  22.8
C. IDUSTRLAL AIID PROVINCE-WIOG STAT1;IIT OF OVEDaJES
BIND                           PUNAB                        BALUCHISTA                        (~ .FR9NM)N                     TOTAJL'                 Principal and Interest in Arrears
Principal     Intest             Picpl         IresePerest                                                    interest         PrincRpa!      Interest                 As S of Totsa
Jute Processing                                   -                       1,462          1,786             -            -                  -             -               1,462         1,786                     0.8
Cotton and Other Textiles                36,114        25,248            64,G89        55,511              5,965       7,248             4,717          3,226          110,885        91,233                    49.9
Sugar                                    1,357          2,162            30,999        24,146              -            -                1,174            910           33,530        27,218                    15 0
Food Products and Processing             7,428          6,348             8,956         6 282              --                                            -              16,384        32,630                     7.2
Eigineering                              2 572          3,384             6,072         2,428            24,660        4,208              -              -              33,304        10 020                    10.7
Chemicals and Phacmaeuticals            10,333          6,732             6,049         2,784              _            _                                               16,382         9,516                     6.4
Cement, Ceramics and Glass                 784            212            12,765          8,267             -                                                            13,549         8,479                     5.4
Board, FPper, Paper Products and
Printing                                2,998          3,143               735            43              -            -                 -             -                3,733         3,186                     1.7
Transport and Bhipping                    4,338         1,971               -             -                -             -                 -             -               4,338         1,971                     1.6
Miscellaneous                               120           609             2,762          1,091             -            -                   374           225            3,256         1,925                     1.3
Total                         66,o44       \49,809            133,889       102,338            30,625       11,456            6,265          4,361          236,823       167,964                   100.0
115.853                         236,227                        142.081                          10.626                        4C,87
% of Total                             28.6                            58.34                           10.4                             2.6                           100.0
/ This category includes amounts In arrears for less than 3 mouths totalling Rs 100.54 million. The principal outstanding of loans in arrears for less than 3 months was Rs 227.25 million.
I These figures shov the arwears performance of each sector. The sectors where both principal outstanding affected by arrears and principal and interest in arrears an % of principal outtatnding
for each sector have becsme worse relative to the average portfolio  re: textiles, engineering and cement. One public sector company which is perfoming well accounts for over 80% of the overdues
by the engineering sector. Regarding cment another public sector sompany accounts for over 50% of the arrears under the cement, ceramics and glans category.
The following caopars the overdues situation with that prevailing in June 1973 (RN  minion):
Pri93ipal and Interest in Arrears over R montha
June 1973   September 197'4~      Sep-temer 1975        Inr..  /39                   fIe
Jute processing                                            15.8                  3.3                  3 3                   ( 12.5)               ( 8)
Cotton and other textiles                                  94.4                129.5                202 1                    107.7                  69
Sugar                                                      32.5                 44.1                 60 8                     28.3                  18
Food Products  nd Processing                               26.3                 33.3                 _9 D                      2.7                   2
Engineering                                                18.6                i14.5                                          24.7                  16
Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals                              15.6                 22.3                                          10.3                   7
Cement, ceramics and glass                                 11.3                IG 5                  I 0                      10.7                   7
Board, paper, paper products =ad printing                  28.3                 38.4                  t 9                   (2L1.)                ( 14)
Transport and shipping                                      1.5                  8.0                  6 3                      4.8                   3
Miscellaneous                                               4.3                  4.1                 5                        0.9 
Total                                              248.6                313.8                404.8                    156.2                 100.0



ANNEX 19
Page 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
PICIC's Plan of Action on Collections
(a) PICIC has undertaken a project by project study of its
portfolio. The attached tables summarize PICIC's industry-
wise projections (based on the total of the individual pro-
jections) giving figures of overdues, billing, rescheduling
and projected collections for the next 3 years and indicat-
ing separately recovery of balance of overdues over the
period. The -targets for PICIC's total collections (prin-
cipal and interest) over the 3 year period are as under:
(i)  1976                                           Rs in '000s
(a)  actual up to 31/5/76          168,328
(b)  projected up to 31/12/76      186,300      354,628
(ii)  1977                                            373,000
(iii)  1978                                            391,638
(b)  PICIC's Plan of action for solving the problem of overdues
involves the following:
Rescheduling:
(i) Rescheduling already agreed to has only been in those
cases where:
- the borrowers have made some down payment.
- have agreed to the revised repayment schedule;
and
- where PICIC management is satisfied that-they
can be expected to keep to the revised schedule
of repayment.
(ii)  In all cases of rescheduling the borrowers are
required to execute a supplementary loan agreement
setting forth the revised schedule of repayment and
also agreeing to penal interest at the enhanced rate
of 4% so as to bring the total interest rate in line



ANNEX 19
Page 2
with the interest rate currently charged by commercial
banks, thereby leaving no incentive for withholding
repayment.
(iii)  This process holds good for the remaining cases as
well. The rescheduling program will be completed in
the next 6-8 mohths as per the attached tables
summarized below:
(Rs in 'OOOs)
No. of       Amount
Cases          Rs
Overdues as of May 31, 1976
(column 7 of Summary Part-I)          149         604,004
Less: (As per Summary Part-II)
i) Already rescheduled
(column 4)                          16         125,849
ii)  Further propsoed to be
rescheduled (column 5)              45         350,716
61        476,565
Net Overdues where rescheduling
is not considered necessary           88         127,439
(iv)  The main difficulty so far has been for rescheduling
in the cases of industrial categories generally oper-
ating at losses and therefore, facing liquidity problems.
These categories are:
- cotton textile industry, more particularly spinning
units;
- solvent extraction plants;
- paper industry; and
- art silk cloth industry.
Even in these sectors some rescheduling plan has been
tentatively assumed for the purpose of determining
future estimates of billings and recoveries. The actual
arrangements to be arrived in these cases, may, therefore,
differ somewhat but by and large overall recoveries, if
anything, may turn out to be better.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
(v) With a view to improving the viability in these sectors
PICIC management has used their good offices with the
Government in suggesting suitable policy changes. In
this effort a measure of success has recently been
achieved. For example, in the case of solvent extraction
plants the Government has allowed this industry to import
their requirements of edible oilseeds (other than cotton
seeds) free of any custom duty, produce the edible oil
again without any excise duty and freely sell the
same in the market. As a result, this industry should
now be able to operate to full capacity and thus improve
their profitability and subsequent cash generation. The
Government also has taken recently actions to assist
the textile industry, paper industry and export industries.
This has provided a basis for discussion with individual
borrowers as regards the rescheduling programme concerning
these sectors. Such a dialogue will take place after
2/3 months as the impact of the new measures begin to
bear fruit. When a particular industry falls in dif-
ficulty, PICIC will continue to take up the matter with
the Government for appropriate remedial measures.
Other Overdues
(vi) It will be observed from above that out of 149 cases
of overdues, rescheduling is expected in only 61 cases.
In the remaining 88 cases the overdues are expected
to be recovered as under:
(Rs '000)
i)  During the half year ending 31/12/76        Rs 89,331
ii)  During the half year ending 30/06/77            29,417
iii)  During the half year ending 31/12/77             7,523
iv)  During the half year ending 30/06/78               522
v)  During the half year ending 31/12/78                74
vi)  Doubtful of recovery                               572
Rs 127,439
These targets are attainable as-they were derived on the
basis of PICIC's analysis of the repayment capacity of
individual projects, taking into account improvements
made on PICIC's follow-up work and that all leverages
available to PICIC for collection of dues from sponsors
of defaulting companies are now strictly enforced.



ANNEX 19
Page 4
Legal Cases
(vii) Pending Decision:
As on 31/5/76 PICIC had taken legal action against eleven
cases. In the case of normal suits for recovery of debts
the procedures are presently very time-consuming and
expensive and hence applications filed by PICIC are now
for the liquidation of the enterprises on the ground
that they are unable to pay their debts. This action has
been taken in extreme cases after a very careful selection
so that the impact is felt by others. The primary objec-
tive is to force the management to come to terms by arrang-
ing some down payment and agreeing to a reasonable re-
scheduling programme. This objective is being largely
served because the managements in these cases have shown
a desire for a settlement and in 3 cases they have started
making some payments through the courts. By and large
rescheduling arrangements are expected to be agreed to in
these cases as well after substantial down payment. This
has been reflected in the case to case study;
(viii) Cases already decided:
There are three enterprises that have gone into liqui-
dation not as a result of legal action by PICIC but
as a result of action taken by other creditors. Liqui-
dators have been appointed. Total PICIC dues against
these three projects amount to Rs 4.41 million. Except
in one case where the balance due is Rs 0.494 million
(after recovery of Rs 3.5 million) which is shown as
doubtful of recovery, the rest is well secured and is
expected to be recovered in full as PICIC has first charge
on their assets.
(c) PICIC will continue to seek assistance if necessary from the
Government when problems arise concerning collections from
units now in the public sector or from commercial banks for
guarantees enforced. Further, Government is considering a
new law for the speedy recovery of overdues of nationalized
commercial banks and the Government has already indicated
that the new law, when enacted, would also apply to recovery
of PICCIC overdues.
August 16, 1976



PAMISTAN DITIhWRIAI. CRDMTT AII IMN:UI3JT  OI(rORATION 1317T2)
PR0JiET-wys.E AflJLy3IS (. flj1.lN. & n!.CCV2Ixt.S AS ONIIAY 31. 1976
sJMrY - PAHT-I                                                                (rupees in thouegsam)
I ACTUAL BI!L- I TOTAL  'r!'ATI ZNTS|   ANCE           ES1IrATLO BIILDICS                              CTIR'AED R NCVMI
I                                      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A IMO " S'HC47M    DPI                                        I iCUWr  ADJ76U17-7T)NTSj3
Nc.       f     ,U: l CAS3TnICATICO'S OM              -1-                 I            AS 197              1-1-197 13i_                                t_1-  t t-7-77    1   -        1-7-78
I31-12-75    TO         TILL     1-1-76 TO    Ato               jto Ito lto lto lto                             to        to       to         to
I   31-5-1976        31-5-76 [31_&_ TM    31-5-76  31-12-761 26-77 31-12-7?16-78l 31_-7 31-12-76   6-77   31-12-77 430.71 31-12-71
1 2                     3          4                              7                                9I  11F ii                         4 L  15   -16   17
A. fnlrated Tertile Units           71,771     27,491    99,262       21,669     7f,593    30,690   29,827  30,963  31,45t   32,045    15,133    28,855    24,789   28,596     29,482
(3,955)  (2,181)    (935)       (-)        H-)
B. On-ir.te,-rate4 lJots
iWi Unit Pw81t rto operation       66,827      20,152    86,979       16,565    70,414    21,547   24,690  25,196  25,308    25,308    11,769    21,158    19,804    20,869    20,965
prior to Deciber 1971.                                                                                                            (6,996)  (4,800) (1,082)         (_)       (-)
ii)  Unitl *utabliah.d after        52,147     14,696    66,843        4,853    61,990   15,924  18,619   18,619  18,619    18,619.   5,068    15,151    15,151 *  15,5         15,151
Dcember 1971.                                                                                                                     (5,068)    (373)       C-)       (-)       (-)
iii) Units under Implemntation       9,171      5,808     14,979       1,297    13,682   12,021   13,138   15,187  17,498   18,592    8,128       9,21)50,6(4    12,268         13,034
Sub-4otal: On-ixterateid Uuits     128T145     40,656    168,801      22,715    146,086    49,492  56,447  59,002 61,425   62,519               45,524    45,604                90
(15.298)   (5.173)  (1.062)  . -)   .        -
ab-Tota3l Cotton Textiles          199,916     68,147   268,063       44,384   223,679   80,182  86,274  89,965  92,876    94,564   40,098    74,379    70,393    76,884        78,632
_      J                                    -            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(19,253)  (7.35 )  (2,017) () (-
t  II                        11,803      5,460     17,263       7,800     91463    59619   6,438   6,268  6,669    6,669    6,182    6,169           5 806     5.786     6,062
(2,265)    (609)    (233)    (130)         (74)
i lCWCL                      13,587      6,467     20,054       5,125     14,929    8,065    6,528   8,045  8,045    8,045       e 749    6,221    6,386      6 386      5,994
(2,926)    (392)    (392)    (392)         H-)
t SPDCULISE    lMILES         3,148      1,963      5,111       t,204      3,907    2,025    1,765    1,765   1,705    1,705     1 710     1,858     1,625     1,565     1,565
1817)     (-           (-     W-         -
UTE                          3,280      6,858    10,138        7,642     2i496    71090   3,485   3,485  3,405        3,485    9,586      348       348       3,485     34e
       _                     (2.496)                         (-)        (-i
Total: Textile":                   231,734     88,095    320,629      66,155   254,474   102,981  194,490  109,528 112,780  114,468   66,325    92,112   87,695   94 106    95,738
(27,757)  (8,355)  (2,642)    (522)         (74)
I1- SCL7Izr EMRACTICr                        19,949      3,332    23,281          100    23,181     3,507      -      5,609  5,609    5,609        637       140    2,804    3,366       3,366
III- F4M;  rAMIJFACTUIl13                   56,121       8,254    64,375          553    63,822    5,756    5(675   5075  8,475    8,475           203 3)4                               3 4
IV - C!I::'CAL & P&RM.ACHMIrCALS             15,824      9,079    24,903        7,355     17,548    8,101    8,794   9,209  8,326      8,137    8,086      7422      7,614    7,998      6,751
Y-  POLD PPCTJCTS & ?PC UINDS                14,818      6,767     21,585       6,096     15,489    9,408   8,150   8to86   7,970    7,867       7,587     8,544     7,513     7,286     7,183
(2,194)   (1,889)     (_)       (-)        (-)
VI.  LIU'7 E"! IN8DII                         9,154      3,747    A2,901        1,532     11,369    4,468    4,050   4,056  4,090    4,042       4 128    3,391      3,147     3,292     3,244
(1,926)    (239)      (-)       (-)       (-)
VII- NlIC-ILAN&IUS                           34,610      18,024    52,634      12,597    40,037   19,528  20,724  21,809 22,489  523,073    16,8          16,676    18,317   18,65       19,217
(5,287)   (1,201)   (1,095)     M-         C-
TIZI-LIfAL 5A3Q                              43,145      5,618    48,763        2,145    46,618     8,642   4,759    7,207  5,491    10,903    15,993    13 550    4,382    4,569        5,150
(15,541)  (12,254)    (989)      (_)        _-)
IN- PUBLIC  =TCR PRCJFDT3                    79,252     17,117     96,369      26,602     69,767    15,295   19,621   19,825  19,758    19,758    31,737    19,593    20 084   20,845   21,232
(24,829)  (5,336)  (2,797)       (..        M-)
2    26oA3                                   73,368     33,524    106,892      45,193    61,699   36,599   37,355   37,353 39,778    39,779    34,724   29,844    29,922    31,694      31,952
(9.4
aD   TOTL,          577,975     194,357   772,332     168,328   604,004   214,285  213,718  228,457 234,766   242,111   186,30D   191,347   181,65.3 194 310    197,328
(89,331)  (29,417)  (7,52)    t522)         (74)
NoTxs ridurem within parmthesis under the oolumn -EOIIIIATD R2I0TV0211S" indicate recovery of overaono as per column 7.
NA/on.



PAKIDArA NDUSIT1I,L CRIMIT AN)D fIVTVr,'3TIlT CORPCRATION LIFITUD
REY.OVUTY PLAN CF OV2DBUSS AS c,N mAY 31. 1976
(Rupees in thousands)
I-UMMARY - P:  R-Il
TOTAL MO~UT    ow             A'CU)7P     L      r vl    JCV        FOIEUZDRI   RDECV:MY OF CVTRDUIS 11URIl;
A.   Interrated Tertile Units    77,59BL3                PRPOE TO52        3X5               2 1917          93             --8
ST!0  DUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATIONS           AIflCADYABLjI RLOS!I M    TIiOV 3iYO OE- 12:YOFO1976.  URN                                           1
*O*                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS CN  RECMIY            WES3I1FROM a1 n6 h76                                lot11a1CJ        
M~AY 31. 97 RNCEALDTO11976 9x76 1nI le 1s 1                               n  il ot                     2nd Rplf
3  6  -4  57-  0  6       1    7               0               9            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~101
I-    T~rIT:Th CC7icN
A.   Ineao   etl  nt                       77,593          -          70,522         3,955             2,181           935            -             - 
3.   Un-inteprated Units
i)    Units went into operation      70t414          -          57,536         6,996             4,800         1,082
prior to December 1971.
ii)   Units established after        61,990        4,863        50,686         5,068               373           -
December, 1971.
iii)  Units under implesentation     13,682          -          10,448         3,234
Sab-4ot.l2 Un-integrated Units            146,086        4,863       119,670        15,298             5,173         1,082
Sib-Total: Cotton Textiles                223,679        4,863       190,192        19,253             7,354         2,017            -             -
STIX                              9,463          -           6,152         2,265               609           233            130            74           _
s WCCT LIN                        14,929        9,204         1,623         2,926               392           392            392           -             _
: SPTIIALISED TEITILES             3,907          -           3,990           817
: JUTE                             2,496          _             _           2,496               -                               '                        - 
Total: Textiles:                          254,474        15,685      201,057        27,757             8,355         2,642            522            74
II-    SCI.IT 3CRASTICI1                          23,181          -          22,544           637               -             -              -             _             _
III-  PAFP~  :A'A!RFATt'RrTrG                     63,822       60,025         3,697           100               -             -              -             -             _
IV-   Clj!C.%If  & PIMPJ,ARACM'TICALS            17,548          -          15,789         1,616               143           -              -             -             _
V-    itCD PFC1T'r3Ti AID PROCESSIIG              15,489        6,259         5,147         2,194             1,889           -              -             -
TI-   LI' ?r 2I7?1E3lIFG                         11,369          -           9,204         1,926               239           -              -             -
vII-  11:- ILAr!.CUS                              40,037        8,738        23,716         5,287             1,201         1,095            -             -             -
PIII- LGAJ. CAS3T-                                46,618          -          17,402        15,541            12,254           989            _            __             432
IX-   PUBLIC 332CR FRCJIICTS                      69,767       29,125         7,680        24,829             5,336         2,797            _             _             -
I-     SUGAR                                      61,699        1,635        44,480         9,444               -             -              -             -              140
TOTAL:             604,004      125,849       350,716        89,331            29,417         7,523            522            74           572
Recovery is oonsidered doubtfNl.
IIA/ eq
CD 3
b v



A2i1'N4 zU
FAXISTAN INDWSTRI1L CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Summarized Income Statements. December 31. 1970-1975
(Rs in million)
1970     1971    1972       1973      1974     1975
----------------Audited-----------------  Unaudited
INCOME
Interest on temporary
investment and bank deposits    5.53       5.12   12.91       9.19     6.64      5.26
Interest on loans                81.77    70.21  166.34    161.57   150.02   147.55
Dividends from investments        4.48      4.72    3.23       5.44      8.05     7.17
Capital gains from
investments                      6.61      7.19     -          -         -        -
Miscellaneous income              14.27    13.29   17.15      29.79    35.79    20.62
TOTAL GROSS INCOME              112.66   100.53  199.63    205.99   200.50   180.60
EXPENSES
Administrative expenses            6.48    18.56V   8.00       9.O0-    9.46    10.87
Interest paid and other
financial expenses              60.97    62.17  125.27    129.48   122.74   118.88
TOTAL EXPENSES                   67.45    80.73  133.27    138.48   132.20   129.75
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                45.21    19.80   66.36       67.51    68.30    50.85
Income tax                       18.32      7.50   32.10      31.45    30.35    21.-40
NET INCOME                       26.89    12.30   34.26       36.06    37.95    29.37
Allocation of Net Income
Surplus due to devaluatio/          - _            93.10    (22.31)  (13.39)  ( 9.27)
Unappropriated profits
beginning of year                0,21      o.48    0.35       0.36      0.36     0.30
Excess tax provision for
previous years                   0.60       -        -         -         -        -
Premium on share issues             -       5.00      -         -         -        -
Net income                       26.89    12.30   34.26       36.o6    37.95    29.37
27.70    17.78  127.71      14.11    24.92    20.40
Reserves                         20.97      7.13   98.20    (75.84)   16.85    41.16
Provision for doubtful
advances in West Pakistan          -        -     20.00        -         -      52.58
Provision for loc- cuiaenQy
investment in East Pakistan       -         -      2.75      79.18       -     (81.93)
Unappropriated profits
end of year                      o.48      0.35    0.36       0.36     0.30      0.29
Dividends                         6.25      6.30    6.00       7.20      7.77     8.302/
Additional tax for previous
years                              -       4.00    0.40       3.21       -        -
27.70    17.78  127.71      14.11    24.92    20.40
Ratios
Dividend payout (%)              23.2      51.2    17.5       20.0      20.5      28.3
Rate of dividend (%)             12.5      12 0    10 0       12.0     12.5       12.5
Net profit/Average equity (%)   20.3       14:7-   16.4       16.4      19.6      13.0
Profit before tax/average
total assets (%) a               3.8       2.55/   3.8        2.9      3.1        2.3
Profit after tax/oerage
total assets (%)-                2.3       1.91   1.9         1.5      1.7        1.3
Administrative expenses/
average total assets (%)4/       0.55      0.73s/  0.45       0.38     0.43       0.50
1/ Includes donation of Rs 10.0 million to the National Defence Fund.
2/ Includes donation of Rs 500,000 to Flood Relief Fund.
3/ Provisional.
4I/ West Pakistan assets only from 1971 onwards.
3/ For 1971, the Rs 10 million donation to the National Defence Fund (footnote 1) was
not included in the calculation of these ratios.
6/ Total amount was Rs 100.3 million on the devaluation of the rupee in 1972, of which
Rs 7.2 million was collected and taken through the income statement during that
year. The reduction in subsequent years represents amounts colrected by PICIC
which are incorporated under net income after providing for tax.
March 31, 1976



glNISt 21
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTKINT CORPOEATION LIETED
Balance Sheets. December 31. 1970-75
(Es in Million)
ASSETS                             1970      1971     1972      1973      1974       1975
--  A-----------Audited__________- - ----    Uaun1.ted
Cash snd short-term deposits    57.64    82.16   195.30    59.63    56.96           47.81
Goveranent and other securitr,s 25.23    17.41    11.20    23.00    23.65          18.36
Accrued interest and charges-   54.34    52.52   211.16   264.22   290.45         289.21
Sundry current assets            10.26      9.02    12.41    12.84    15.22        18.32
147.47   161.11   430.07   359.69   386.28       373.70
Local currency loans  2/          51.92    46.56    64.60    67.70    67.72        68.45
Foreign Currney loans-          987.10   802.40  1910.57  1761.98  1655.25    1772.11.
1039.02   848.96  1975.17  1829.68  1722.97    1840.59
Less:  Provision for
doubtful advances         -          -      20.00    20.00    20.00        72.58
Total loano            1039.02   848.96  1955.17  1809.68  1702.97    1768.01
Equity investment (at cost)       80.22    68.85    71.21    73.90    73.77         76.73
Fixed assets (Net)                 1.10     1.02      0.86     0.79      0.72        0.66
Amount receivable from
Government of Pakistan             -        -       81.34    83.38    10.19          -
Assets blocked in ...st
Pakistas                                 434.41   492.06   478.08   541.78       372.45
Total Assets           1267.81  1514.35  3030.71  2805.52  2715.71    2591.55
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accounts payable-/                31.52    29.72   104.79   123.66   115.99         66.93
Amount due to Go-ernnent
of Pakistan                        -        -         -        -         -        73.06-
Provision for taxes on
incone                          15.53    11.01    31.36    25.43    12.29         20.11
Proposed dividend                  6.25     6.30      6.00     7.20      7.77        8.31
53.30    47.03   142.15   156.29   136.05       168.40
Foreign curr,jnoy long-term
borrowings-                    962.24   782.00  1798.28  1637.98  1463.17    1437.69
US Aid Rupee loan                 30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00         30.00
Rupee debentures                    -      20.00   185.00   195.00   185.00       175.67
Loan from Stote Bask of
Pakistan                           -        -      125.00    52.00    50.49      138.91
Subordinated Government
advances                        79,27    10.91    81.39    83.81   103.69         21.76
Total long-term debt  1071.51   872.91  2219.67  1988.79  1932.35    1803.99
Capital paid-in                   50.00    60.00    60.00    60.oo    66.40        66.40
Reserves                          92.52    99.65   129.99    77.82   107.91       158.35
Revaluation reserves                -        -       67.86    14.19    30.95        21.67
Bndistributed earnings             o.48     0.35      0.36     0.36      0.30        0.29
Net wrth                143.00   160.00   258.21   182.37   205.56        246.71
Liabilities in res,ect
of Fast Pakistan4/                 -     434.41   329.34   299.61   275.95       132.66
Loan disbursed by       51
Gs-ernnent of Pakistan-            -        -         -      95.08   255.61      239.79
Loan tr be disbursed ba,/
Government of Pakistan-            -        -       81.31    83.38    10.19
Tad Equity            1267.81  1514.35  3030.71  2805.52  2715.71    2591.55
RATIOS
Long-term debt/equity-/           7.5:1    5.5:1    8.6:i   10.9:1    9.4:1         7.3:1
Long-term debt/equity
(contractual /)                 4.5:1    4.1:1    6.3:1    7.2:1    5.9:1         6.6:1
Current ratis_/                   2.8:1    3.4:1    3.0:1    2.3:1    2.8:1        3.9:1
Reserves plus provisions as
f of loan and equity portfolio
([IP)                           8.3      10.9     10.6       7.5       8.8       13.2
Provisions as % of loan
and equity portfolio (MiP)        -        -       1.0       1.1      1.1         3.8
Rook value as , par value      286.0    266.7    430.4    303.9    309.5         371.6
1/ Including interest accrued on guarantees as shown below under-/
2/ Including outstanding guarantees as under:
Guarantees               85.49   152.46   414.20   385.47   297.50        251.30
Accrued Interest          2.42      3.45    17.16    32.53    i8.90        14.04
3/ Net of Rs 2.75 rnllion prcsided fbr in 1972 and Rs 79.18 nillion in 1973, which
were written back in 1975 as GOP has agreed to take responsibility for PICIC's
rupee assets in Bangladesh
4/ The 1975 figure of Rs 132.7 million includes Rs 81.91 million transferred from
subordinated GOP advances representing the allocation rade to PICIC's rupee assets
in Bangladesh. Foreign currency liahi] ities in respect of Bangladesh are shown
at pre-devaluation rates.
These represent reimbursements mode (to be made) to 1ICIC for the servicing of
foreign currency Bangladesh liabilities.
6/ Excluding from debt foreign currency liabilities relating to Bangladesh from
1971 onwards. Local currency liability also excluded in 1975. The contractual
definition treats subordinated loans maturing after IBRD debt as equity.
7/ The current ratio should be viewed with caution as the accrued interest under
current assets includes substantial arrears. The ratio for 1975 excludes the
amount payable to GOP discussed in footnote 8.
8/ This anount refers to funds given by GOP for a payment made by PICIC to IBRD after
the related liability was taken up by Bangladesh. IBRD will reimburse PICIC
during 1976.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 22
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND IfWESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, 1976-80
(Rs in million)
1975      1976      1977       1978     1979      1980
Actual      --Projected----------------
APPROVALS
Foreign currency loans            271.4      300.0    3h5.0      Wm.0       60.o    530.0
Local currency loans               39.3       50.0     58.o       66.0      76.0      88.0
Subtotal                        310.7      350.0    403.0      466.0    536.0    618.0
Equity inrestments                  3.0        1.0       3.0       4.0       6.0       8.0
TOTAL                          313.7        351.0    406.0    470.0    542.O    626.0
COMMITMENTS
Foreign currency loans            268.7      290.0    318.5      333.0   L0l.5    463.0
Local currency loans               21.1       33.9      37.8      50.6      63.8      73.2
Subtotal                       289.8     323.9    356.3       383.6    h65.3    536.2
Equity investments                  3.0        1.0       3.0        _0 6.0             8.0
Total                          292.8      324.9    359.3      387.6    h71.3    5S4.2
DISBURSEMENTS
Foreign currency loansl/          311.6      258.7    231.3      279.8    320.6    37L.8
Local currency loans                8.7       15.9      23.9      31.9      40.3      52.7
Subtotal                       320.3      27h.6    255.2      311.7    360.9    427.5
Equity investments                  3.0        1.0       3.0       4.0       6.0       8.0
Total                          323.3      275.6    258.2      315.7    366.9    435.5
1/ Of which Loan 961-PAK.
77.8     120.8      34.2       13.4
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Projected Foreign and Domestic Currency Resource Position, 1976-1980
1976      1977      1978      1979       1980
I. Foreign ($ million)
Resources available for commitment
at beginning of year                         18.0      42.7      15.        51.9      26.3
Less:  New comnitments                        29.3      32.2       33.6      40.6      46.8
Plus: lew resources:
IBRD                                 25.0        -       30.0         -       30.0
ADB                                  25.0        -       30.0         -       30.0
Ef                                    6.o        -        5.0        7.0       5.0
Other Bilaterals/Suppliers (net)l/ ( 2.0)       5.0       5.0        8.0      10.0
Resources available for commitment
at end of year                               42.7      15.5      51.9       26.3      54.5
No. of months succeeding year's
commitments                                  16         6        15          7        13
II. Local (Rs million)
Resources available for disbursement
at beginning of year                         28.0      28.6      29.1       32.6      33.3
Plus:   Sources
Adjuste4net profit                      11.3      20.4      23.4       28.7      34.1
Plus: A  (payables-receivables)         17.0       3.3       8.0        9.8       6.7
Internal cash generation                           20.3 23.7  .        T8        40.8
Collections (Principal LC)             1705       11.7      12.0       12.4     T1T
Share Capital increase                    -         -          -         -         -
GOP subordinated loans                    -                    -         -         -
SBP cash credits                       204.0      25.o      15.0       15.0      15.0
SBP scheme for local machinertW         16.0      23.9      31.9       40.3      52.7
Total sources                      258.8      84.3      90.3      106.2     122.6
Less:   Requirements
Equity investments                       1.0       3.0       4.0        6.o       8.0
Disbursements of loans                  15.9      23.9      31.9       40.3      52.7
Repayments (principal LC)              126.4       5.9        9.1      34.1      49.7
Redemption of debentures                56.8      36.8       36.8      27.4      18.0
Investment in fixed assetp,              0.5       0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5
Deficit in FC collections5-             49.3       5.4     ( 3.8)   ( 11.1)   ( 13.6)
Dividends                                8.3       8.3        8.3       8.3       8.3
Total requirements                 258.2      83.8      86.8      105.5     123.6
Resources available for disbursement
at end of year                               28.6      29.1       32.6      33.3      32.3
1/ Unutilized portion of an Italian Credit is expected to be cancelled in 1976.
These bilateral/suppliers credits are provided to PICTO by GOP at 2% below
PICIC's foreign currency lending rate.
2/ Excluding unutilized portion of SBP cash credits (Rs 146 million) and SBP
scheme for local machinery (Rs 40 million) which are taken as sources of funds in
the years they are utilized. Further, it is assumed that no sales of investments
take place.
3/ Profit before tax and revaluaticn reserve realizations less actual tax payment
during year plus depreciation. Revaluation reserve realization are not included
since the interest portion is deducted from receivables and accrued income.
4/ Amount available was Rs 40 million as of December 1975 but it is assumed that a
new line of credit would be provided by SBP in 1978.
j/ Difference between collections (principal) of foreign currency loans, and
repayments (principal) of foreign currency borrowings. The 1976 figures
includes Rs 73 million payable to GOP.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 24
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Projected Income Statements. 1976-80
(Rs in Millions)
1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980
Unaudited  -                 Projected---------------
INCOME
Income from loans - interest    147.55   156.69    157.65   162.62   171.62   185.73
Commitment charges, other
fees, etc.                       11.52    11.67      14.03    16.52    19.18    22.18
Income from-loan operations      159.07   168.36    171.68   179.14   190.80   207.91
Dividend income                    7.17      6.95      7.13      7.44     7.89     8.25
Realization of exchange
reserve                           9.10      8.00      8.00     5.67       -         -
Income from short-term
investments, deposits, etc.       5.26     3.86       4.04     4.23      4.43     4.63
Capital gains                       -         -         -         -        -         -
TOTAL GROSS INCOME                 180.60   187.17    190.85   196.48   203.12   220.79
EXPENSES
Interest and commitment
charges on borrowings          .118.88   124.45    127.01   130.00   134.71   142.61
Administrative and other
general expenses                 10.87    13.04      15.00    17.25    19.84    22.82
TOTAL EXPENSES                     129.75   137.49    142.01   147.25   154.55   165.43
INCOME BEFORE TAX                 50.85    49.68      48.84    49.23    48.57    55.36
Provision for tax                 21.48    21.00      20.50    20.52    19.94    23.14
NET INCOME                          29.37    28.68      28.34    28.71    28.63    32.22
Allocation of Net Income
Decrease in revaluation
reserve                        (  9.27)  ( 8.00)   ( 8.00)  ( 5.67)       -        -
Net income                        29.37    28.68      28.34    28.71    28.63    32.22
20.10    20.68     20.34    23.04    28.63.   32.22
Net increase in reserves          41.15 1   7.42       7.16      9.82    15.48    18.39
Increase in provisions          ( 29.35)-   4.96       4.88     4.92      4.85     5.53
Dividends                          8.30      8.30      8.30      8.30     8.30      8.30
20.10    20.68     20.34    23.04    28.63    32.22
Ratios
Dividend payout (%)               28.3      28.9      29.3      28.9     29.0     25.8
Rate of dividend (%)              12.5      12.5      12.5     12.5      12.5     12.5
Net profit/average equity (%)    13.0       11.4      11.0      10.8     10.3     10.9
Profit before tax*verage
total assets (%)/                2.3       2.2       2.2       2.2      2.1      2.2
Profit after tax/average
total assets (%)2/                1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.2      1.3
Administrative exRenses/average
total assets (%)Y                 0.50      o.59      0.68     0.77      0.84     0.91
1/ Provisions for Pakistan portfolio increased by Rs 56.58 million but provisions for
Bangladesh portfolio (Rs 81.93 million) were written-back.
2/ Net of assets relating to Bangladesh.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 25
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Projected COsh-Flow Statements, 1976-80
(Rs in millions)
1976      1977      1978      1979     1980
SOURCES
Profit before tax and revaluation
resenre realization                       41.68      h0.84     l3.56    48.57    55.36
Add back: non-cash items (depreciation)    0.30        0.30       0.30     0.30      0.30
Increase in share capital                     -         -          -        -         -
Draw down on-
SBP cash credits-'                      20h.00      25.00     15.00    15.00    15.00
SBP scheme for local machine r           15.86      23.85     31.89    4o.33    52.73
Foreign currency borrowings2/'          137.95    197.07    266.h9   320.64   374.77
Increase in accounts payable                24.95      1.28       1.49     3.37      2.94
Loan collections against -
Foreign currency loans                  169.31    190.h6    207.11   221.35   230.91
Local currency loans                      10.48     11.7h      11.98    12.42    14.12
Increase in subordinated loans                -         -          -        -         -
Total availability of funds            604.53    490.53    577.82   661.98   746.13
USES
Investment in fixed assets                   0.50      0.50       0.50     0.50      0.50
Disbursement of -
Foreign currency loans2/                137.95    197.07    266.49   320.6   374.77
Local currency loans                      15.86     23.85      31.89   h0.33    52.73
Equity investments                           1.00      3.00       4.00     6,00      3.00
Repayment of borrowings:
Foreign currency                        1X5.59    195.87    203.27   210.27   217.27
Local currency3/                         183.13      2.73      45.86    61.h9    67.73
Increase in receivables, accrued income    7.92   (  2.04)  ( 6.50) ( 6.h5) (  3.76)
Payment of tax                              30.61     20.75      20.51    20.23    21.5&
Payment of dividend                /         8.30      8.30       8.30     8.30      8.30
Payment to Government of Pakistan-i         73.06       -          -
Total payments                         603.97    490.03    574.32   661.31   7!7.08
Cash surplus/(Deficit)                       o.56      0.51       3.50     0.67  ( 0.95)
Opening cash balance                        47.81     48.37      48.88    52.38    53.05
Closing cash balance                       48.37     48.88      52.38    53.05    52.10
Debt service coverage (Times)                0.72      0.98       1.01     0.99     0.99
1/ To cover debt servicing shortfalls.  The 1976 figures include a  Rs 125 million
borrowing to repay to SBP the same amount which falls due during that year
(reflecting a rescheduling).
2/ Excluding those under the 9th IBRD Administered loan as under
120.8    - 3h.22      13.35     -         -
3/ Includes repayment of Rs 125 million to SBP during 1976 (footnote 1). The new
borrowing of Rs 125 million would be payable in 5 equal yearly installments
starting in 1979.  Other SBP cash credits for debt servicing would be payable in lump
sum 5 years after the amount is drawn down.
h/ Repayment of foreign currency borrowings has been reduced by same amount (see
footnote 8 Annex 20).
March 31, 1976



AMN 26
PAKISTAN flDUSTRIA. CRISDIT OD DINVESTMT CORPORATiCN LIhIrED
Projected Balance Sheets, 1976-80
(Be in  llions)
1975      1976     1977     1978     1979     1980
Un.adited    -----         -Projected------ --------
ISSETS
Cash and short-term deposits     47.81     48.37    38.88    52.38    53.05    52.10
Government and other
securities                      13.36     18.36    18.36    18.36    18.36    18.36
Receivables and accrued iooee  289.21    297.13   295.09   288.59   282.14   278.38
Deposits, prepoyments etc.       18.32     18.32    18.32    18.32    18.32    18.32
Total current ossets         373.70    382.18   380.65   377.65   371.87   367.16
Outstanding loans:
Foreign currency/            1772.14   1740.78  1717.39  1806.77  1906.06  2049.92
Ds.estic currency              68.145     3.83    85.94   105.85   133.76   172.37
Total loans                 1840.59   18 1.61  1833.33  1912.62  2039.62  2222.29
Equity investments            76.73     77.73    80.73    84.73    90.73    98.73
Total loans and
investments                1917.32   1852.34  1911.06  1997.35  2130.55  2321.02
Leduct: Reserve for doubtful
accounts                        72.58     77.54    82.42    87.31    92.19    97.72
Net portfolio                  1844.74   1814.80  1831.61  1910.01  2038.36  2223.30
Fixed assets (Net)                o.66      o.86     1.06     1.26      1.46     1.66
Total assets in East
Pakistan_'                  372.45    372.45   372.45   372.45   372.45   372.45
TOTAL ASSETS                2591.55  2571.29  2585.80  2661.37  2781.11  2961.57
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Tax payable                      20.11     10.50    10.25    10.26      9.97    11.57
AMont received from
Government of Pakistan          73.06       -        -         -        -        -
Dividends payable                 8.30      8.30     8.30      8.30     8.30     8.30
Accounts payable and other
current liabilities             66.93     91.88    93.16    91.65    98.02   100.96
Total current liabilities    168.40    110.68   111.71   113.21  _116.29   120.83
Long-tern Senior Debt      1/
7eig. our.rr..cy borrwings-  1437.69   1430.05  1431.25  1191.47  1604.84  1762.3h
Rupee loan from US AID           30.00     28.57    25.7i    22.85    19.99    17.13
1st debenture isaue              20.00       -        -         -        -        -
2ld d-oeiture ioue              71.63     is.b8    28.13      9.38      -
3rd debenture issue              90.00     72.00    54.00    36.01    18.00
State Bark Credit: cash
t redit                        129.20    208.20   233.20   248.20   238.20   228.20
Loans for local nachinery         9.71     25.57    46.30    71.91   106.02   136.88
Total borrowings senicr
to equity                  1782,23   1811.27  1818.59  1882.81  1987.05  2111.55
Share capital                    66.40     66.40    66.40    66.40    66.1O    66.40
Revolu-tico reserve              21.67     13.67     5.67       -        -        -
Reserves, anoppropristed
surplus                        231.22    251.60   271.64   292.05   312.38   336.3r
319.29    331.67   343.7'   358.45   378.78   402.7-
Deduct: Proviison for
doubtful accounts        72.59     77.5h    32.12    37.3h    92.19    97.7?
Net Worth                       246.71    254.13   261.27   270.11   286.59   301.99
Sub-ordinated Governrent
sdvar.ces                       21.76     21.06    21.76    21.76    21.76    21.76
Total net worth and sub-
ordinoted Governmseot
advances                     268.47    275.89   283.05   292.87   308.35   326.71
Loans disbursed by Government
of Pakistan (for Bangladesh
liabilitie-)                   239.79    239.79   239.79   239.79   239.79   239.79
Liabilities relating tc
East Pakistan:
Foreign                        50.73     50.73    50.73    50.73    50.73    50.73
Local                          81.93     81.93    81.93    81.93    81.93    81.93
TOTAL LIiABILITIES AND
EQUITY                      2591.55   2571.219  2585.80  2661.37  2781.14  2964.57
RATIOS
Long-term debt/equity            7.3:1     7.2:1    7.0:1    7.0:1    7.0:1    7.1:1
Long-tern debt/equity
(oontractualj/        ~~~6.6:1   6,6:1    6,h:1    6.4:1    6.4:i    6.6:1
Current rotio-                   3.9:1     3,5:1    3.L1;    3.3:1    3.2:1    3.0:1
Reserves and provision as o
of loan and equity portfolio   13.2      11.0     14.5      14.6     14.7    14.5
Provisions s 8 of loan and
equity portfolio                3.8       4.1      4.3       4.4      1.3      h.2
Book value as , par calue      371.6     383.6    393.5   408.3   431.6   459.3
1/ Eacluding the 9th IBRD administered loon as undar:
79.13    199.93   234.15   237.1h   224.53   210.50
2/ In respect of PICIC foreign currency assets in East Pakistan and the corresponding
liabilities the amcounts as of December 31, 1975 are left constant throughout the
projected period as these do not affect PICIC's real financial pcsition and it is
not known when a settlement would be reached.
31 Cash credit already obtained/to be obtained for financing short fall in PICIC's
rupee resources.
t/ See Annex 20 footnote 7.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 27
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVEST=NT CORPORATION LIMITED
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan
(US$ million,
Amount
1977    January - March                -
April - June                  0.5                 2.0
July - September              2.0                 8.0
October - December            2.5               10.0
Subtotal                    5.0               20.0
1978    January - March               2.7                10.8
April - June                  2.8               11.2
July - September              2.5               10.0
October - December            2.0                 8.0
Subtotal                   10.0               40.0
1979    January - March               2.0                 8.0
April - June                  2.0                 8.0
July - September              1.7                6.8
October - December            1.3                 5.2
Subtotal                    7.0               28.0
1980    January - March               1.2                 4.8
April - June                  1.0                 4.0
July - September              0.5                 2.0
October - December            0.3                 1.2
Subtotal                    3.0               12.0
Total                      25.0               100.0
March 31, 1976






PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF FEBRUARY 7, 1976
IOARD OF DI ECTORS
CECLITIVE COMMITTEE
NM II,-aI,
CHAIRMAN
MANAGING DIRECTOR
F       -                                -' 
D IRECTOR                                                                                                                                     DIRECTOR
| W.h.b Udd.n Sh.I,                                                                                                                           G H Y  ,oH
LAJORE          PESHAWAR               LAUETTA                            ECONOMIC          OPERATIONS       ENGINEERING         PROJECT          INVESTMENT          GPECIAL            LEGAL          PR CT  SECRETA                         ACCOUNS            INTERNAL
REGIONAL          OFFICE               LIAISON            OFFICE           RESEARCH          DEPT             DEPT                IMPLEM           DEPT                PROJECTS           DEPT           DEVELOPMENT          RIAT              DEPT              AUDIT
DFFICE  OFFICE                      AND STAT                                                ENTATION                            DEPT                              DEPT
DEPT                                                   DEPT,
H_mEdKha's        MANMANAGEANAGER                         MANAGER             CHIEF          CHIEF               CHIEF             CHIEF              CHIEF            CHIEF            CHIEF               CHIEF             SECRETARY          CHIEF              INTERNAL
MANA~GER          ThO., ANb~sV,Y                          ADQ. M.,            A Q-~H,         M,,,,, R.SIR,-     F-,.I RB."        0.8 Al,            S. I-b-a,,        S V K..,        S M-bE, H,-s~,      KM SS~l-d          ANd,,G,,            a,,  ,           AUDITOR
S                                                                                    0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DP CHIEF  DEP CHIEF       DEP CHIEF                                                                                  M.N,EA-EI
I                                        r  d A A FS.-H   I  F A T,h                             A    ReI-d
SAIl      1      5F 1                   DI.A              SI;Sl,                              SIaI              SI                GUl              014     1           SA.Il             S-,l              DS                                                     SAIl
P,YIObS,DHSIS ID  E,DIeH,,,,AD   2                      ~~~~~~~~P-t--.1,A, 12                    --ICNY,Y    ,,I,s,H,,II I  P,HI-  M,IU    12    PUHGD---I  S1   P,Yf.SS,D-AG   SI   P,I S,DflC.-    S1   P,,,Ie-,DY-I  A6 O,,SY,    2  ~ A    P,IS,,
3
P,YISS,,H,YG               I0   I
WI, - SY  10914



