CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1326 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Tenth PICIC Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated September 29, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and THE PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
LIMITED (hereinafter called the Borrower), a company established
and operating under the laws of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project" means the project described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement.
(b) "Bank Loan Agreements" means the loan agreements dated
December 17, 1957, September 25, 1959, June 27, 1961, February 13,
1963, June 30, 1964, July 9, 1965, August 10, 1967 and March 21,
1969, and the project agreement dated January 31, 1974, all between
the Bank and the Borrower, as the same have been or may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower
and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for therein.
0


﻿-3-
(c) "Government Agreements" means the agreements dated
October 26, 1957, December 7, 1961, July 4, 1967, December 30,
1968, and the Guarantor's sanction letters dated August 24, 1974,
and October 17, 1974, respectively, all between the Guarantor and
the Borrower, providing for advances by the Guarantor to the Bor-
rower of Rs 30,000,000, Rs 30,000,000, Rs 10,000,000, Rs 10,000,000,
Rs 15,000,000 and Rs 3,600,000, respectively, and shall include
such amendments to such agreements as may from time to time be
agreed by the parties thereto and the Bank.
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Invest-
ment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement.
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds oi a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-4
(h) "rupees" and the letters "Rs" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(i)  "Foreign currency  means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Guarantor.
(j) "Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Borrower adopted on
September 26, 1957, as amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank.
(k) "Statement of Policies" means the Outline of Business
Policies approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on
December 10, 1964, as amended on March 11, 1967, September 30,
1967, December 7, 1970, January 1, 1974 and August 25, 1975 and
as further amended from time to time with the prior approval of
the Bank.
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
S


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(a) The aggregate equivalent amount of the Loan may be with-
drawn from the Loan Account for amounts expended by the Borrower
for an Investment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for
amounts to be expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project,
to finance the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods and ser-
vices required under a sub-loan or investment for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided,
however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan
or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit
sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account.
(b) Notwithstanding any provision of the foregoing paragraph
to the contrary, up to the equivalent of two hundred thousand dol-
lars ($200,000) of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
by the Borrower, after the Guarantor has employed the consultants
S1


﻿-6-
specified in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement, to finance
the foreign currency cost of the study of the textile industry
described in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) hereof and, to that end, the
Borrower shall enter into an arrangement with the Guarantor, as
provided in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.
(c) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which, together with any other amount to be financed by
PICIC out of other funds for the same project, shall not exceed
the sum of (i) $2,500,000 equivalent or (ii) $4,000,000 equivalent
when the proposed financing by PICIC for such Investment Project
is added to any other outstanding amounts financed by PICIC out
of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior Loan or out of any
other funds.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval, or in respect of an investment, if such
expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement
or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the appli-
cation and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the BAnk shall have received in respect of
such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b).
0


﻿-7-
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and con-
ditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of
amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the
amount of the Loan to be used for the investment; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
S       withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before September 30, 1978.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.


﻿-8-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the sched-
ules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which
have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan
Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take into
account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General
Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder
shall be made on June 15 and December 15 in each year. Such amend-
ments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table of
premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
S


﻿-9-
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each in-
vestment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall
not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-
limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof or the amount of the
Loan made available to the Guarantor (as provided in Section 3.04
of the Guarantee Agreement) shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or,if a sub-loan or an investment or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest
payment date, together with the premiums specified in Schedule 1


﻿-10-
to this Ag"eement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08
(a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account
in respect of such sub-loan or investment or part thereof or made
available to the Guarantor, as the case may be, and not theretofore
repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturi-
ty or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the out-
standing amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so
repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment, pro
rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts
to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
0


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is (i) to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan as will contribute to the
economic and social development of the country and consists of the
financing of specific development projects through loans to and
investments in private enterprises in the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower;
and (ii) the carrying out by the Guarantor of a study of the tex-
tile industry in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan with the assis-
tance of consultants.
(b) The Borrower shall (i) carry out that part of the Proj-
ect for which it is responsible and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices,
with qualified management and personnel and in accordance with
its Memorandum and Articles of Association and (ii) take such
steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to provide,
or cause to be provided, to the Guarantor a portion of the rupee
cost of the textile study described in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of
this Agreement, as such portion may be determined by the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written con-
tract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
S


﻿-12                                    S
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any invest-
ment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment En-
terprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate re-
cords; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant fac-
tors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with re-
presentatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the In-
vestment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insur-
ance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consis-
tent with sound business practice; and (2) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information


﻿-13-
as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or term-
inate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise
to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the in-
terests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the In-
vestment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under agreements in terms of which funds have been
lent to, or otherwise put at the disposal of, the Borrower by
the Guarantor or its agencies or by others for relending or in-
vestment and the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending,
abrogating, or waiving any material provision of, any such agree-
ment.
(b) The Borrower shall not, without the approval of the Bank,
make any payment in respect of any debt maturing more than one
S1


﻿year after the date on which it is originally incurred under any
such agreement as aforesaid, except at the times and in the amounts
therein originally provided.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall not amend its Memorandum
or Articles of Association without the approval of the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall inform the Bank of any proposed action
to amend its Statement of Policies and shall afford the Bank a rea-
sonable opportunity, in advance of the taking of such action, to
exchange views with the Borrower with respect thereto.
(c) The Borrower shall not effect changes in or appointments
to the position of Managing Director of the Borrower without prior
consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the ex-
tent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable there-
to, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
S


﻿-15-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants; Inconsistency
with the Pertinent Provisions or
Definitions included in the Bank Loan Agreements
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and.
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in ac-
cordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
S


﻿-16-
(b) The Borrover undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsid-
iary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as se-
curity for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/
equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of this
Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reason-
able action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.
S


﻿- 17 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries then incurred and outstanding vould be greater than seven
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and out-
standing pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of rupees debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
01


﻿- 18                                    0
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
()  "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and sub-
sidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary, and (ii) he debt referred to in sub-paragraphs (e)
(ii) and (iii) of this Section; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary
in the Borrower or any other subsidiary, (ii) the amount of the
advances under the Government Agreements, excluding the amounts
allocated to the Borrower's rupee assets in Bangladesh, that is
payable after the date of the last outstanding maturity of the
principal amount of the Loan or any of the loans provided for in
the Bank Loan Agreements, and (iii) the amount at the time out-
standing but not yet due for payment of other debts of the Borrower
under agreements approved by the Bank at the request of the Bor-
rower, for the purpose of this sub-paragraph (e) (iii).
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including rupees) used in its lending and borrow-
ing operations.


﻿-19-
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrover shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
.their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions rnd financial condition of the Borrover and its subsid-
iaries, and the Borrover shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of the Borrover and
subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrover shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.10. If any provision or definition included in this
Article is inconsistent with the pertinent provision or definition
included in any of the Bank Loan Agreements, the provision or de-
finition included herein shall govern.
4I


﻿-20 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any of the advances provided for in the Government Agree-
ments shall have become repayable prior to its agreed maturity be-
cause of the happening of an event of default therein described
or otherwise;
(b) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in ad-
vance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instru-
ments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforce-
able;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and Ar-
ticles of Association which will materially and adversely affect
the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Statement of Poli-
cies without the Bank's consent;
(e) an order is made or a resolution shall have been passed
for the dissolution or liquidation of the Borrower; and
S


﻿0                            -21 -
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, ac-
quisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of the
Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or the
efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the car-
rying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specifieda
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿-22                                     S
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the mean-
ing of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Borrower's Board of Directors has duly approved and
issued a strategy statement pertaining to the Borrower's planned
operations over a period of approximately 2 years after the date
hereof, such statement to be acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) the terms of reference and the other arrangements for
the study specified in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) hereof have been agreed W
upon between the Guarantor and the Bank.
S


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The date November 30, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
The Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation Limited
State Life Building
Chundrigar Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
PICICORP
Karachi
SI


﻿24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! h Picciotto
Director
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
THE PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
By /s/ A.M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
S


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)**
December 15, 1979                                  160,000
June 15, 1980                                      370,000
December 15, 1980                                  500,000
June 15, 1981                                      620,000
December 15, 1981                                  680,000
June 15, 1982                                      940,000
December 15, 1982                                  900,000
June 15, 1983                                      940,000
December 15, 1983                                  960,000
June 15, 1984                                    1,000,000
December 15, 1984                                 1,o4o,ooo
June 15, 1985                                    1,060,000
December 15, 1985                                1,100,000
June 15, 1986                                    1,130,000
December 15, 1986                                1,180,000
June 15, 1987                                    1,220,000
December 15, 1987                                1,140,000
June 15, 1988                                    1,070,000
December 15, 1988                                1,010,000
June 15, 1989                                    1,000,000
December 15, 1989                                1,040,000
June 15, 1990                                    1,020,000
December 15, 1990                                1,040,000
June 15, 1991                                    1,060,000
December 15, 1991                                  930,000
June 15, 1992                                      800,000
December 15, 1992                                  56o,oo
June 15, 1993                                      130,0C
December 15, 1993                                   70,000
June 15, 1994                                      180,000
December 15, 1994                                  150,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-26                                      0
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         2.95%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.45%
More than eleven years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                         6.90%
More than fourteen years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                         7.90%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                         8.90%
S


﻿S                            -27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03 Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section
2.03 of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests
Sl


﻿28-
permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such appli-
cations or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
S
S


