                                              Documentof
                                          The WorldBank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 27630-BD




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                         PROPOSED CREDIT

                              INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 104.2MILLION
                                  (US$150 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOF BANGLADESH

                                                FORA

                        PRIMARY EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11




                                           January 16,2004




HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
SouthAsia RegionalOffice




This document has a restricteddistributionandmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective August 31,2003)

                              Currency Unit = Taka
                                    Tk 1.00 = US$0.17
                                  US$l.OO = Tk 59.00

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                     July 1 -- June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      Asian Development Bank
ADPEO    Assistant District Primary Education Officer
AOP      Annual Operational Plan
AusAID   Australian Agency for InternationalDevelopment
AUEO     Assistant Upazila Education Officer
BRAC     Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
C&AG     Comptroller and Auditor General
CBO      Community-Based Organization
CHT      Chittagong HillTracts
C inEd   Certificate inEducation
CIU      Component ImplementationUnit
C M I    Core MonitoringIndicators
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CTA      ChiefTechnicalAdvisor
DffD     Department for IntemationalDevelopment (UK)
DG       Director General
DP       Development Partners
DPE      Directorate o f Primary Education
DPEO     District Primary Education Officer
EA       Executing Agency
EFA      Education for All
EOP      Endo f Program
ERD      Economic Relations Division
EMIS     EducationManagement Information system
ESTEEM   Effective Schools Through Effective Education Management
FTI      Fast-Track Initiative
FMU      Financial Management Unit
GER      Gross Enrollment Ratio
GIS      Geographic InformationSystem
GOB      Government o f Bangladesh
GPS      Government Primary Schools
HES      HouseholdExpenditure Survey
HSC      Higher Secondary Certificate
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAgency
ICB      Intemational Competitive Bidding
JICA     Japan Intemational CooperationAgency

                                                           FOR0"       USEONLY

    LGED      Local Government EngineeringDepartment
    MDG       MillenniumDevelopment Goals
    M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
    MoE       MinistryofEducation
    MoPME     Ministry o f Primary and Mass Education
    MTMF      Medium Term Macroeconomics Framework
    MTR       Mid-Term Review
    NAPE      National Academy o f Primary Education
    NCTB      National Curriculum Textbook Board
    NER       Net Enrollment Ratio
    NGO       Non-Government Organization
    NORAD     RoyalNorwegian Agency for Development Co-operation
    PCU       Program Coordination Unit
    PEDP      Primary Education Development Program
    PEPETC    Plan for Expanding Primary Educationfor Tribal Children
    PLU       PEDPII LiaisonUnit
    PPRP      Public Procurement Reform Project
    PSC       Program Steering Committee
    PSQL      Primary School Quality Level
    PTA       Parent-Teacher Association
    PTI       Primary Teaching Institute
    RNGPS     RegisteredNon-Government Primary School
    SAR       Student Absenteeism Rate
    SDR       Student Dropout Rate
    SIDA      Swedish InternationalDevelopment Association
    SLIP      School Learning Improvement Plan
    SMC       School Management Committee
    SRR       Student RepetitionRate
    ssc       Secondary School Certificate
    STBR      Student-Textbook Ratio
    TAR       Teacher Absenteeism Rate
    TSCH      Teacher-Student Contact Hours
    TOT       Training o f Trainers
    TST       Technical Support Teams
    UEO       Upazila Education Officer
    UPE       Universal Primary Education
    UPEP      UpazilaPrimary Education Plan
    URC       Upazila Resource Center
    UNICEF    UnitedNations InternationalChildren's EducationFund
    UNFPA     UnitedNations Population Fund

                                  Vice President:  Praful C. Pate1
                     Country ManagedDirector:      Christine I.
                                                              Wallich
                                 Sector Manager    Michelle Riboud
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Hena G. Mukherjee


This documenthas a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                            BANGLADESH
                      PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I1


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       3
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          3

B. Strategic Context

   1, Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  10
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       12

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                            16
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       17
   3. Lessons leamed and reflectedinthe project design                                    18
   4. Indicationso fborrower commitment andownership                                      19
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         19

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            20
   2. Financial                                                                           20
   3 . Technical                                                                          21
   4. Institutional                                                                       22
   5. Environmental                                                                       24
   6. Social                                                                              25
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  27

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1, Sustainability                                                                      28

  2. Critical risks                                                   28
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                   30


G. Main Conditions

  1, Effectiveness Condition                                          31
  2. Other                                                            31

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                        33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                          33



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                       34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                 45
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs                                     56
Annex 4: Economic and Fiscal Analysis                                 58
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                            74
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                 75
          (B) Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements        80
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                  93
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                 95
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                              96
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                         98
Annex 11:Memorandumof Understanding with ADB and Code of Conduct      100
Annex 12: Environmental guidelines - ImprovedSchool Facilities        113
Annex 13: Plan for Expanding Primary Education o f Tribal Children    117




MAP(S)
Map IBRD 32933

                                                BANGLADESH
                                   PrimaryEducationDevelopment Project I1

                                     ProjectAppraisal Document
                                           SouthAsia RegionalOffice
                                                  SASHD

Date: January 16,2004                                 Team Leader: Hena G. Mukherjee
Sector ManagedDirector: Michelle Riboud               Sector(s): Primary education (100%)
Country Director: Christine I.
                             Wallich                  Theme(s): Education for all (P)
Project ID: PO74966
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)

 [ ]Loan       [XI Credit     [ ]Grant       [ ]Guarantee       [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):

Proposed Terms (IDA): StandardCredit
Commitment fee: 0.00-0.50%
                                                                                      ign
BORROWER                                                           1161.00             0.00   1161.00
IDA                                                                104.00             46.00    150.00
ASIAN DEVELOPMENTBANK                                               69.00             31.OO    100.00
AUSTRALIA: AUSTRALIAN AGENCY FOR                                     8.00              4.00     12.00
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
CANADA: CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                           14.00             6.00    20.00
AGENCY (CIDA)
UK:BRITISHDEPARTMENTFORINTERNATIONAL                                104.00            46.00    150.00
DEVELOPMENT(DFID)
EC: EUROPEANCOMMISSION                                              70.00             30.00    100.00
JAPAN: JAPANINTERNATIONAL COOPERATIONAGENCY                          2.00              1.oo     3.OO
(JICA)
NETHERLANDS:MIN.OF FOREIGNAFFAIRS / MIN.OF                          35.00             15.00    50.00
DEV. COOP.
NORWAY:NORWEGIANAGENCY FORDEV. COOP.                                28.00             12.00    40.00
(NORAD)
SWEDEN: SWEDISHINTL. DEV. COOPERATIONAGENCY                         20.00              9.00    29.00
(SIDA)
Total:                                                             1615.00           200.00   1815.00
Borrower: GOB
EconomicRelationsDivision,Ministryof Finance
Responsible agency: MOPME
Ministry of Primary andMass Education(MoPME)
Address: BangladeshSecretariat,Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact Person: Mr.RafiqulIslam, Secretary, MoPME
Tel: (880-2) 8612484               Fax: (880-2) 8618871               Email: scy.pmed@bdcom.com

Project implementation period: FY2004-FY2010
Expected effectiveness date: 0311512004 Expected closing date: 0613012010




                                                - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The overall program objective i s to improve quality, equitable access, and efficiency inprimary education
through a sub-sector program approach. Specifically, the program will assist the Government o f
Bangladesh (GOB)to: (a) improve the quality o f teaching and leaming, and raise student achievement; (b)
increase access to schooling for the disadvantaged; and (c) strengthen planning and management o f primary
education, including establishing a national monitoring and evaluation system for primary education.

The Primary Education Development Program I1(PEDPII) covers only Government and
government-supported schools. However, GOBi s committed to findingmeans to extend Government
support to other schools, includingNGO leaming centers.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

        Duringnegotiations, it was agreed that the draft key performance indicators would be as follows:


            0    Current public expenditure on education increased to at least 2.8% o f GNP by 2009.
            0    Primary education expenditure per pupil over GNP per head increased from 8.2% in2002
                 to 10% in2009.
            0    Increasingnumber o f schools to operate on single shift (750 hours per year for all classes):
                 25% by MTR, 50% by Endo f Program (EOP).
            0    The Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) increased from 97.5% in2002 to about 107% in2009,
            0    The Net Enrollment Ratio (NER) increased from 80% in 2002 to 84% by MTR and 88%
                 in2009.
            0    The number o f disabled children out o f school reduced by 20% by 2005, andby 30% by
                 2009.
            0    Student absenteeism reduced from (estimated) 40% in2002 to 20% in 2009, with no
                 discrepancy between boys and girls.
            0    Repetition rates for girls and boys in all classes reducedby 20% by MTR and 40% by
                 2009 compared to 2002.
            0    Student completion rates for Class 5 boys and girls increased from 68% in2002 to 80%
                 by 2009.
            0    Teacher absence without leave reduced to 10%by EOP.
            0    Education achievement o f girls (which i s below that o f boys in2002) improved to at least
                 equal to that o f boys by 2009.
            0    The number o f students achieving acceptable levels o f literacy and numeracy (as measured
                 by the NationalAssessment) increasedby 50% by 2009.
            0    The proportion o f Class 5 students entering for the Primary Scholarship Examination
                 increased from 20% in 2002 to 50% by 2009, and the proportion o f students achieving the
                 pass level increased from 5% o f students in2002 to 40% by 2009.
            0    The transition rate from Class 5 to Class 6, estimated to be 30% in 2002, increased to
                 40% with gender parity by 2009.

B. Strategic C,ontext
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25886-BD          Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/30/03




                                                     - 3 -

The main objective of the CAS i s to help Bangladeshrealize its aspiration to reduce poverty substantially
within a generation. To attain this objective, the CAS outlines a three-prong strategy: (i)
                                                                                          consolidating
gains inhumandevelopment and supporting initiatives to address the next generation o f development
challenges ineducation, health and nutrition; (ii) implementingan integrated approach to rural
development, including making opportunities and assets available to the poor; and (iii)accelerating and
broadening private sector-led growth. The CAS further states that cross-cutting issues o f institutional
capacity building, govemance, macro-economic stability, social concems such as gender equity, local
community empowerment, and environmental protectionwill be treated as integral elements within these
strategic objectives.

The CAS discussion on developmental priorities inthe education sector notes that, notwithstanding the past
decade's impressivegains recorded in education, especially inaccess to primary education, improving
quality remains a principal challenge. Reduction in gender discrimination ineducation i s also cited as a
major accomplishment that needs to be sustained. Thesethemes echo the findings inIDA'Smost recent
analytical work on the Bangladesh education sector (World Bank, Bangladesh Education Sector Review,
2000).

The proposed program i s in line with boththe CAS and sectoral goals, and the InterimPRSP. It aims to
develop a cost-effective and better managed primary education system. It focuses on: (a) ensuring school
quality and system efficiency; (b) enhancing coverage and ensuring equitable access to quality primary
schooling; and (c) developing a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system.

PEDPIIreflects a concerted approach by GOBand eleven development partners towards coordination of
financial assistance through harmonization o f policies and procedures. Funding support for PEDPII i s
beinginitiated through a harmonizedapproach basedon improvedGovernment procedures rather than
beingdrivenby donor procedures. The focus i s on capacity-building and use of improved GOBsystems.
For example, PEDPIIwill adopt GOB'Snewly reformedprocurement system for national procurement. It
will also aim to use common financial management arrangements and reporting, and to adopt joint
supervision strategies. Through PEDPII Bangladesh could offer to the international community a good
practice example on scaling up interventions which are critical to growth and poverty reduction.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background

Bangladesh has made significant progress in education inthe last two decades, especially inregard to
increasing access and gender equity. With nearly 17.7 million students enrolled inover 78,000 primary
level schools, gross primary enrollment rates rose from 76% in 1991 to 97.5% in2002 while corresponding
net enrollment rates rose from 64% to 80%. Primary dropout rates fell by a third--from nearly 60% in
1991to 30% in2000. Gender parity in access to primary education has also been achieved. These
achievements are particularly impressivewhen compared to other countries in South Asia and elsewhere at
similar levels ofper-capita income. For example, in 1980 Bangladesh'snetenrollment rate ranked eighth
among ten low-income countries (India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal, China, Indonesia, Kenya, Benin and
the Republic of Congo). Its rank has now improvedto fourth. Furthermore, in South Asia, only Sri Lanka
has matched Bangladesh's feat o f achieving gender parity at the primary level. Additionally, the primary
education systeminBangladesh i s also targeted at enhancing equity in access--53 percent o f students inthe
primary education systemcome from poor households. Expenditures at the primary level are also strongly
pro-poor with the poor receiving 56 percent o f all government subsidies on primary education.

Despite this progress, critical problems persist. Both the I-PRSP and the National Plan o f Action for


                                                     - 4 -

Education for All (2003-2015) emphasize the importance o f achieving the EFA goals o f quality basic
education for all. As stated in the I-PRSP (Discussed by the Board on June 19, 2003) strategy paper, two
critical areas requiringsignificant attention include: (i)the widening "quality divide" ineducation between
therich andthe poor; and (ii)   ensuringan efficient and sustainableapproach to enhancedaccess for the
poor to education. The needfor concerted action i s highlightedby the following key indicators of the
current conditions o fprimary education inBangladesh:


    0    The net enrollment rate (NER) of 80% in2002 suggeststhat at any one time more than four
         million children o f the primary school age (6-10 years) are out o f school;
    0    About one thirdo f children drop out before completing the five-year cycle;
    0    There is far less parity inaccess to education for children inremote rural areas, especially children
         inthe tribal and Chittagong HillTract regions;
    0    Highlevels of student and teacher absenteeism;and
    0    Less than a third o f children aged 11+ acquire any meaningful learning, with a significant gap in
         cognitive achievement betweenrural and urban children, andbetweenboys and girls.

MainIssuesinPrimaryEducation

The causes and consequences ofpoor educational quality and inequitable access, the main sub-sector
issues, are discussed in more detail below.

Low Education Quality

Weakmanagement and accountability. The system is characterized by weak management at all levels in
the primary education system, exacerbatedby highmanagerial staffrotation rates and the lack of a
dedicated education cadre with appropriate educational management and technical skills. The highly
centralized management o f education inhibits district, upazila and school initiatives inproviding quality
education. There is also limitedtransparency inthe allocation and use o f resources. This i s compounded
by an ineffective system o f accountability: of teachers to students, guardians and headteachers; of head
teachers to supervisors and school management committees; and o f school management to government.
Finally, ineffective monitoring and evaluationprovide little empirical basis for policy formulation and
planning.

Low quality of teachers. The system o f teacher education i s weak and uncoordinated, and teacher
recruitment and deployment are ineffective. This is reflectedinthe continuedpractice o f assigning
untrainedteachers to classroom teaching, andthe absence o f an incentive structure to attract and retain
qualified, well-performing teachers. Overall teachers' time-on-task falls far short o f the minimum
necessary to ensure effective student learning, and this i s exacerbated by widespread teacher absenteeism.
Primary EducationTeacher Training Institutes' (PTIs) ability to provide effective teacher training i s
underminedby a severe staff shortage. The PTI Instructorstraining program i s weakened by ad hoc
training specialists on deputation to the National Academy o f Education (NAPE) whose lack o f
institutional autonomy does not allow for the regular appointment o f specialists dedicated to the training o f
PTI Instructors.

Ineffective curriculum development and textbook production. The National Curriculum and Textbook
Board (NCTB) i s responsible for developing curriculum and publishingtextbooks. NCTB, one o f the
largest textbook publishers inthe world, is responsible for providing over 80 milliontextbooks annually at
the primary and secondary levels. However, NCTB's textbooks are o f poor quality, often not supplied to
schools on time, andproduction is cost-inefficient. Inall grades (except 11 and 12) the NCTB



                                                      - 5 -

commissions manuscripts from authors selected to develop manuscripts, which are thenpublished as
textbooks. M O E has plans to extend the competitive approach to manuscripts for grades 6-10. The
evaluation o f manuscripts lacks transparency and criteria and ratings inthe selection process are not made
public. Finally, maintaining NCTB as the sole publisher o f textbooks below grade 11i s not cost-effective
as the lack o f competition has ledto poor quality textbooks.

Inadequatephvsical infrastructure. Despite decades o f physical facilities provision, the stock o f
physically adequate classrooms conducive to minimal learning environment standardsi s inadequate. The
rapidrise in enrollment has further exacerbatedthe situation, along with the needto move towards a single
shift systemofprimary education ifteacher-pupil contact time is to increase. A large number of schools
and local education administrative facilities needto be repaired andor renovated. Inaddition, schools need
to be provided for students inremote areas. Furthermore, the physical facilities of educational institutions
such as NAPE, PTIs, the NCTB (Primary Education Wing) needrepairs, as do District and Upazila
Education Offices.

Inequitable Access. Despite relatively high enrollments, large numbers of girls and boys are still not in
school. Empirical evidence indicate that the reasonsfor children not entering or dropping out of school
include the highopportunity cost o f education, and excessive distance to school, particularly inremote
communities.

Non-recognition of non:formal centers. Some NGOs have shown that they are able to successfully deliver
quality education programs to the grassroots, covering approximately seven percent o f all primary school
children - often coming from the most disadvantaged groups. Instituting a stronger partnership between
the state and non-formal centers would help meet the sub-sector access and quality objectives as well as
GOB'SEFA goals.

Inappropriate Sector Financing. With a total budget o f about USSSOO million, the annual per pupil
expenditure i s about US$30. While this does not seem too low compared to other countries inthe region,
almost 97 percent o f resources going to school are expended on salaries and benefits leaving only three
percent for supplies and on operations and maintenance. This i s clearly a serious problem as the miniscule
financing o f learningmaterials and maintenance o f facilities has predictable consequencesfor the quality o f
education provided.

Poor Coordination between Primarv and Secondary Education. The bifurcation o f basic education into
primary and secondary systems of education administered by two separateministries has resulted in (i)
little coordinationbetween the two, (ii)system inefficiency, and (iii) of concerted efforts on policy
                                                                      lack
formulation, planning and management o f education.

Government Strategy

GOBrecognizes that primary school education is a key area for investment and development as a means to
reducingpoverty, enhancing life chances and improving the quality o f life for children inBangladesh. Over
thepast two decades, Bangladesh has made enormous strides inenhancing access to primary education.
Progress inexpanding coverage and access reflects a consistently highnational commitment to basic
education. Bangladesh, beinga signatory to the World Declaration on Education for All, has initiated
programs that have contributed to making Bangladesh's primary school system one o f the largest inthe
world. Moreover, inthe past five years, partly as a result o f PEDP I,  advances have been made in (a)
increasing the provision and improvement o f school facilities; (b) supporting the development of




                                                     - 6 -

administrative and teaching skills through training; (c) curriculum revision and provisiono f textbooks; and
(d) strengthening management practices, including monitoring and evaluation.

Notwithstandingthese achievements, the Government realizes that long-standing systemic problems remain
to be addressed: the needto improve the quality of education, increasethe school cycle completion rates,
and ensure that the most disadvantaged have access to education. To address these problems, the
Government i s mobilizedon several fronts.

First, the I-PRSP stresses that providing improved access to quality primary education will be a key part of
the strategy to tackle poverty. Second, GOBhas recently completed a National Plan of Action for
Education for All 2001-20 15 which embraces all the goals of EFA for making education compulsory,
accessible and all-inclusive. It encourages girls to participate, i s pro-poor, and works toward appropriate
targets for enrollment, retention, completion and cognitive achievement. Third,inJanuary 2003, MoPME,
supported by development partners, adopted and endorsed a Macro-Plan (MP) for primary education. The
M P outlines the objectives for primary education over the next six years and provides an overarching
policy framework, strategies, and implementationplan for improving the quality o f education, enhancing
access to schooling, and ameliorating overall management and oversight o f primary education. Finally, as
part of the MP, GOB has recently instituteda stipendprogram which aims at targeting the poorest 40% o f
the enrolled studentsinprimary schools about 5.5 million children annually.
                                          -

PEDPII represents a major operation directed towards the Govemment's EFA and Poverty Reduction
agenda. While there i s a high level o f harmony and synergy between the approaches inthe three
documents, significant issues still remain to be resolved. They include the question o f how PEDPII will
address the issue o f NGO schools. MoPME and other key government stakeholders are attempting to work
towards resolving these issues.



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

Poor GoB/donor coordinationwas considered an issue in the last primary education development project
(PEDP I).   To rectify this, the Government, incollaboration with donors, has developed PEDPII as a
program approach rather than as a series of projects. A program approach necessitates flexibility inthe
design o f components and associatedactivities to allow for fine-tuningthe elements as systemic reforms are
progressively introducedduring the course o f program implementation. PEDPII is inline with this
approach. While the program approach may significantly stretch government capacity, it represents a
major step forward inbeing able to address primary education issues holistically. The Government and
development partners have achieved a satisfactory congruence of goals and aspirations through the
collaborative and participatory process. MoPME i s committed to overarching key performance indicators
(see Annex 1) a crucial element o f the program approach--to assess sub-systemic progress towards
               -
achieving the program objectives.

Another critical issue i s the coordination between MoPME and MoE on cross-cutting areas under the two
ministries. A number of issues addressedinthe reformprogram cut across the functioning ofthe primary
education sub-sector (e.g., textbook reforms, teacher recruitment). A coordination committee between
MoE and MoPME has been formed, under the chairmanship o f the Principal Secretary to the Prime
Minister,to ensure collaboration andreach agreementbetween the two ministrieson cross-cutting reform
areas and actions.

The main goal ofPEDPII will be to addressthe above sector issues as part o fthe program, key elements o f

which include the following:

Improving Management and Accountability. The program will address this issue in several ways, key
among thembeing: (a) progressive development o f a primary education cadre with appropriate educational
management and technical skills dedicated to the development andmanagement o f quality primary
education; (b) design and implementationo f a human resourcemanagement and professional development
strategy to strengthen the sector institutions and provide continuity in sector management; (c) promotion o f
simplifiedhiringprocedures to fillexisting vacancies at the local levels; (d) restructuringofNAPE and
NCTB as autonomous institutions; and (e) devolutioddecentralizationo f key management and
administration functions with authority and accountability to local administrative units (Districts, Upazilas,
andschools), and buildingtheir management capability through the appointment of qualified staff and a
systematic staff training program, with emphasis on local autonomy and accountability to local
communities. The participation o f school management committees will also be enhancedthrough provision
o f block grants for investments in school maintenance, books and learning materials and rehabilitation o f
physical facilities. Inthe same vein, to encourage greater participation o f management committees and
teachers inschool management, innovation grants are planned, based on approved criteria on a competitive
basis. Finally, a crucial element o f the strategy will be the development o f a rigorous monitoring and
evaluation systemwith systematic monitoring and evaluation o f primary education and feeding these data
back into policy analysis, planning, formulation and implementation.

Enhancing teacher quality. The quality o f teaching inprimary schools will be enhancedthrough
improving the recruitment and status o f teachers, strengtheninginitial and inservice teacher education, and
improving the support provided to teachers for career development. The quality o f teacher education will
be enhanced through strengthening the capacity ofNAPE to effectively provide academic and technical
support. NAPE will achieve this by maintaining stable well-qualified professional staff, improvingthe
relevance and quality o f its courses and the introduction o f quality standards. Furthermore, increased
management authority will be provided to the PTIs and the physical and professionalquality o f PTIs will
be improved to enable them to deliver the proposed revisedsystem o f quality primary teacher training. At
the same time, the URCs will be developed to provide and facilitate the delivery of in-service teacher
training and professional support ineach Upazila, and sub-cluster training will be improved incontent and
strategies.

Infrastructure Improvements. PEDPII envisages providing more and better school physical facilities that
will be conducive to a better learningenvironment. The new classrooms to be built will be substantially
larger than the existing ones to facilitate the use o f more student-centered and activity-based approaches to
teaching and learning. In addition, necessaryrenovations, extensions, and improvements to education
offices at DPE, CPEIMU, Divisional, District, and Upazila levels, as well as at the key support institutions
o f NAPE andNCTB, will be undertaken, basedon a physical audit and the organizational capacity
analysis. It i s envisaged that these additions and renovations will facilitate improved service delivery and
helpto ensure sustainability of improvedorganizational practices beyond the life of PEDPII. There will
also be provision for equipment, fumiture, water and sanitation facilities, and school maintenance.

Curriculum and Textbook Development. PEDPII aims at enhancing the quality o f the curriculum as well
as the cost-effective production o f textbooks to ensure that the Government provides adequate financial
support for curriculum development and renewal. The Curriculumwing o fNCTB will be strengthened
through organizational capacity building. Reforms are also expected to lead to improvedtransparency in
the selection and approval o ftextbooks, and the competitive, timely, and cost-effective production ofbetter
quality textbooks. Given that NCTB i s responsible for both primary and secondary curriculum and




                                                        - 8 -

textbook production, these components will be developed inclose collaboration between MoPME and
MoE.

Improving Access. The objective o f this intervention is to alleviate demand-side and supply-side
constraints that prevent millions o f children from accessing and participating fully inprimary education.
By far the largest component o fthe program (US$ 864 million over six years) is the primary education
stipend program. This program, which has replaced the Food for Education (FFE) Program, i s aimed at
targeting 40% o f the poorest children enrolled in schools, and i s expected to provide stipends for over five
million poor children annually. The program will also support the construction o f new schools designed to
meet the standards to be established for improving the leaming environment, and will include renovations to
bringphysically inadequate schools to the required standard. Equipment and furniture will also be
provided, as well as access to arsenic safe water and appropriate sanitation facilities (latrines). Innovation
programs would also include increasing access to school for poor and vulnerable children [including those
inremote andtribal areas]. Although PEDPIIwill not fully cover children innon-formal centers runby
NGOs, it is envisagedthat complementary sub-programs wouldbe developed for children inNGO schools
towards ensuring full coverage. Inthis regard, discussions on planned sector work on NGO schools have
already been initiated among interested Education Local Consultative Group Development Partners, who
have formed a Task Force to focus on these issues.

Strategic Choices

The following table summarizes the issues and the strategic choices that would be supported by the
proposed program.

               Issues                                                 Strategic Choices
  Quality: Weak system             Systemic changes inmanagementthrough the development of aprimary education cadre
  managementandaccountability      Introducingof school improvementplans, with greater role for School Management
                                   Committees
                                   Enhancingthe role of District andUpazilalevel administrators
                                   Strengtheningthe EducationManagement InformationSystem (EMIS) and establishingan
                                   outcome-basedMonitoring andEvaluation (M&E) scheme
                                   Developing an effective systemfor disseminatinggoodpractices and successful innovations
                                   Providingof innovationfunds for quality improvementon a competitivebasis
  Quality: Inadequateteacher       Introducingpre-serviceandenhancedteacher educationprograms;
  qualifications and training      Improvingienhancing teacher recruitment,incentives, andaccountability;
  Quality: Poor quality            RestructuringNCTB with clear demarcation betweencurriculum and textbook wings;

  curriculumandtextbooks           Strengthening the curriculumwing ofNCTB through organizationalcapacity building;        I

                                   manner
  Quality: Poor classroomquality   Classroom constructionand renovationto meet physically adequate standards
  and schoolfacilities,and ill-    Providingsafe water and sanitationfacilities to schools

  equipped educationalinstitutions Renovatingeducational institutions suchas the NationalAcademy of Primary Education,
                                   Primary TeachingInstitutes, NCTB, Upazilaand District education offices
  Access: Incompletecoverage       Providingstipends to poorest 40% accordingto approvedeligibility criteria

  andexclusion                     Expandingenrollment of disadvantagedgroups intargetedareas;
                                   Increasingemphasisonprimary educationfor children with disabilities




                                                       - 9 -

 C. Project Description Summary
 1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

 The main focus of PEDPII is to improve quality, equitable access, and efficiency inaccordance with the
 Govemment o f Bangladesh's (GOB)National Action Plan for Education for All (EFA), the Poverty
 Reduction Strategy as expressed inthe InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the Millennium
Development Goals, the PEDP I1Macro Plan and other Policy commitments. The four Program
 components are as follows: Component 1- Quality Improvementthrough Organizational Development
 (which includes program management and monitoring and evaluation) and Capacity Building;Component
2 -Quality Improvement in Schools and Classrooms; Component 3 - Quality Improvement through
InfrastructureDevelopment; and Component 4 -Improving and Supporting Equitable Access to Quality
 Schooling. MoPME and DPE will be responsible for overall program management, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation. Policies and activities that support these components cover both govemment
and non-government schools. Although at present it i s planned that the most direct interventions will be
introducedin Government Primary and RegisteredNon-Govemment Primary Schools, there will be
interventions which will impact on children inall schools.

PROGRAMCOSTS BY COMPONENT

                                                                 In


  Component 1: Quality Improvementthrough Organizational            78.00          4.3        13.50         9.0
  Development and Capacity Building (Including US28
  million for Program Management, and Monitoring and
  Evaluation).
  Component 2: Quality Improvement in Schools and                  510.80         28.1        76.70        51.1
  Classrooms
  Component 3: Quality Improvement through Infrastructure          335.40         18.5        56.30        37.5
  Development
  Component 4: Improving and Supporting Equitable Access           890.90         49.1         3.50         2.3
  to Quality Schooling
                                           Total Project Costs    1815.10        100.0 1    150.00 I      100.0
                                  Total FinancingRequired 1815.10                100.0 I    150.00 1      100.0
Note:Bankfinancing constitutes8.3% ofthe total finances requiredby the program

2. Key policy andinstitutionalreformssupportedby the project:

PEDPII will take up the policy and institutional reforms directly addressing the major issues identified
under "Main Sector Issues" above (Section B.2). Itwill focus on quality, efficiency and access to formal
education. Fundamental to institutional and sector reforms will be a time bound plan for Government to
undertake actions to address the key institutional and sector reforms, including establishment o f a primary
education cadre. Key reforms sought under PEDPII are:


0    Definingandimplementinga minimumstandard of educational services or Primary School Quality
     Level (PSQL), concentrating on access to educational services and education quality. Achievement of
     minimumstandardswill provide abasis for monitoring, evaluationand accountability ofthe primary
     education system;
0   Establishing a Primary Education Cadre to provide an appropriate career and promotion structure for


                                                    -10-

     primary teachers and others with primary education expertise andexperience. Inthis context all direct
     recruitment o fAUEO, URC and other direct recruitment posts would be givenpreference. Qualified
     candidates who have primary education teaching experience would be encouraged to apply for these
     posts;
0    Reviewingteacher recruitment, and establishing initial training, professional development and
     deployment mechanisms which would improve the performance of teachers andput inplace a more
     efficient and transparent system of teacher recruitment and management. Inthis context, salary review
     andthe establishment of aprimary teacher education cadre to provide incentives andrewards to
     motivate good performance will be paramount;
0    Improving coordination between the primary and secondary school systems through improved
     regulation and transparency inthe selection and approval o f textbooks; and production o fbetter quality
     textbooks ina competitive, cost-effective and timely manner. Inthis context, the management of
     NCTB and the general principles for restructuringNCTB will be crucial; and
0    Buildingcapacity and fostering systemic change inline with apolicy of increaseddevolution of
     authority and responsibility to lower administrative levels to ensure improved management, monitoring,
     andinstitutionalizationand sustainability o fPEDPIand PEDPIIinterventions. Inthis context it will be
     important to prepare an institutional reformplan for the entire primary education sub-sector and an
     output-based work plan for finalizing and implementingthe plan.

3. Benefitsand target population:

From a macro, country-wide perspective key benefits of PEDPIIwill include: (a) contribution towards
reducingpoverty through investments inprimary education; (b) greater freedom o f choice for literate and
informed Bangladeshi citizens; (c) improvement inmaternal and child mortality rates; (d) reduced fertility
rates over the long term; (e) ability o f future mothers to contribute to their children's education and health;
(f) enabling farmers and other workers with primary education to increaseproductivity through the
adoption, and adaptation, o f technology; and (g) increasedproportion o f skilledworkers inthe labor force
attuned to labor market needs since primary education is the foundation on which other types o f more
advanced education are built.

More specifically, the Program will support improvements inaccess to and the quality of basic education:
(a) increased access to a much improved quality primaryeducation, especially for poor rural children; (b)
improved targeting through innovation grants and stipends; (c) increased literacy rates across the board,
especially inrural areas; (d) rehabilitatedclassrooms and a substantial increase inthe stock o f physically
adequate classrooms (and hence a reduction in sub-standard classrooms); (e) stronger community voice in
school management; (0head teachers, teachers and teacher educators who are better equipped to deliver a
higherquality education; and (g) amore efficient and effective educational systemmanagedby well trained
and qualified personnel at all levels, with greater levels o f accountability.

Direct beneficiaries o f PEDPII will be as follows: (a) About 18.5 million children (of which about 53% are
poor) in the formal and non-formalprimary education sub-sector in 64 districts comprising 481 upazilas.
Disadvantaged children and those who live inremote areas will form a good share o f PEDPIIbeneficiaries,
andthe proportion ofpublic primary education expenditures going to the poor will rise to 60% from 55%
as a result o f PEDPII. Consequently, about two million more children will have access to primary
education. Programimpact will vary according to location and needs, while a broader cross-section of
children will benefitfrom the improvement o f teacher education activities under the Program; (b) About
35,000 newly recruited and another 40,000 servingteachers trained by about 650 upgraded adequately
preparedteacher educators, as well as some 8,000 new and prepared Headteachers, some o f whom will
have access to improved infrastructure; (c) At least 80% o f primary education administrative personnel will



                                                      -11  -

benefit from management training; and (d) All School Management Committees (therefore the wider school
 community) will be empowered through systematic training and support which will have a positive
nation-wide impact on schooling inbothrural and urban communities.

 4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
Program Implementation. The Program will be implementedover a period o f six years beginning2003
 and ending in2009. A phased preparation and transitionperiodwill be implementedby MoPMEDPE and
Development Partners to ensure a smooth transition from PEDPIprojects into PEDPII.

As a comprehensive program reaching all levels, PEDPIIcovers awide range o fprimary education
investmentneeds, with national impact and implications. Its scale and coverage will require a strong
coordination and management structure, and an effective strategy to maintain coordination and synergy
between PEDPII components at various levels, and support sustainability and institutionalization o f
reforms and interventions. A dedicated organizational unit will support the executing agency (EA) to keep
close track o f the many activities untilthey can be more fully absorbed into the Government's
organizational structures and institutionalized as part o f routine service delivery. As PEDPII gains
momentum, adjustments will be made to respond to arising needs and changing conditions, and new
insights.

DPE, guidedby MoPME, will be the EA andwill integrate PEDPII activities within its regular
administrative setup. It will be accountable for implementingthe program according to Government and
other development partner procedures and guidelines, and for overall transparency and accountability in
usingPEDPII funds. MoPME will establish aprogram steering committee (PSC) to oversee the work of
DPE and the program coordination unit (PCU), which will comprise senior-level representatives from
MoPME, the Ministry o f Education (MoE), Economic Relations Division (ERD), NAPE, Planning
Commission, Finance Division, DPE, Implementation Monitoring and EvaluationDivision (IMED),
MinistryofWomen and Children Affairs, Ministryof Special Affairs, Ministryof Establishment, Public
Service Commission, Ministry o f Local Government, Ministryo f Social Welfare, Ministryfor Chittagong
HillTract Affairs, andrepresentatives ofdistricts andUpazilas. The Secretary, MoPMEwill chair the
PSC, and the Director General (DG) o f DPE will act as member secretary. The PSC, which will meet
whenever necessary but at least once every quarter, will: (a) approve the annual progress report, annual
operation plans, and the supporting budgets; (b) provide overall policy and operational guidance in
implementingPEDPII, and decide on corrective action ifneeded; (c) undertake inter-ministerial
coordination essentialto achieve the reforms under PEDPII; and (d) resolve issues and conflicts that may
emerge during implementation.

The Director General, DPE will be the ProgramDirector. Under the DG, a PCU headedby a Program
Coordinator will be established to coordinate GOB and development partner support for PEDPII. The
PCU will be responsible for the day-to-day coordination o f PEDPII, and monitoringprogress in
implementingit through line divisions ofDPE, with the support oftechnical support teams (TSTs)
comprising international and domestic consultants. More specifically, the PCU will help DPE: (a)
prepare three-year program implementation plans and annual operational plans; (b) coordinate
procurement activities; (c) prepare and maintain financial records, accounts, and statements; (d) prepare all
consolidated progress reports, including the mid-termreview report, and the program completion report; (e)
organize M&E activities; (f)coordinate the work o f the TSTs; (g) liaise on program implementation
matters with ADB; and (h) review the M&E report prepared by the Monitoring and Evaluation Division o f
DPE for annual review missions. Since the structure has been designed specifically to facilitate transition
from a project approach towards a sub-sectorwide program, the structure will bejointly reviewed and



                                                     -12-

 fine-tunedas necessary. A PEDPIILiaisonUnit (PLU) will be set upwithin the ADB BangladeshResident
Missionto exclusively administer the implementationo f PEDPII, and to facilitate close liaisonwith the EA
 and its PCU, and PEDPII Development Partners. ADB will assign adequate staff, including long-term
 consultants, to the PLU, completedwith some support from other DPs.

DPE line directors will lead and coordinate implementation within each PEDPII component, with close
 support from TSTs. Each line director will manage, guide, direct, facilitate, and supervise the specific
interventions undertakenwithin the component. At the regional level, divisions and districts will have key
supervisory and support roles in implementingPEDPII. However, increasingly throughout implementation,
functional authority and responsibility will devolve to the Upazila and schools. This shift inthe locus o f
control and accountability will help speedup the development process and improve govemance.
Decentralizing the planningand management functions to the Upazila level will be supported by a strategy
o f developing and institutionalizing an interactive bottom-up process, articulated through the school and
Upazila improvement plans, so that the Upazila education office becomes the focal point for primary
education planning and management as well as M&E.

To facilitate PEDPII implementation, the Government, aided by the PCU, will prepare and submit to
PEDPII Development Partners three months before the start o f each fiscal year (by 1 April) an Annual
Operational Plan (AOP) for the coming year. The AOP will meet the following criteria: (a) it i s prepared
inconsultation with, andaccordingto data collectedfrom, PEDPII stakeholders; (b) it includes proposed
PEDPII activities for each output, linked with performance targets, with full costing details; (c) it includes
details o f how proposed PEDPII activities are to be integrated into Government structure and ongoing
activities at DPE, division, district, Upazila, and school levels; (d) it allocates adequate resources and
counterpart funding in the Govemment recurrent budget for PEDPII; and (e) it i s in line with the three-year
implementationplan prepared for PEDPII. The AOP for the first year will be finalized duringPEDPII
inception.

Monitoring and Evaluation. A national monitoring and evaluation scheme, to be established under
PEDPII, will aim at strengthening both national and local monitoring and evaluation capability. While
MoPME/PCU has overall responsibility for monitoring and supervision, its effectiveness will depend on the
cooperative contribution by every District, Upazila and SMC. The program will include upgrading the
Upazila Education Management Information System (EMIS) by trained staff who will assist Districts and
Upazilas in organizing data collection and analysis as part o f the process o f monitoring and supervising
program implementation, and developing local M&E capabilities. While the M&E Division o f DPE will be
responsible for overall monitoringand evaluation activities intemal to DPE, independentexternal
monitoring evaluation will be contracted out on a competitive basis to carry out statistical validation o f
EMIS/M&E data, and impact studies.

An innovative aspect o fthe PEDPII M&Ewill be the Quantitative Service Delivery Survey (QSDS) which
will serve as a simple diagnostic tool for analyzing data on education, education finance, and govemance.
Two objectives guide the QSDS: (a) identification o f the determinants o f effective public and private funds
flow through the administrative and budgetary system and ultimately reach teachers and schools; and (b)
determination o f how effectively those resources are combined with other inputs at the school level to
generate the desirededucation outcomes. The main outcomes include teacher posting and absenteeism; the
share o f the intendedper-student school subsidy that a school actually receives; student learning
achievement from test scores; student absenteeism, attrition andtransition. The assessment o f the impact
on student achievement will involve the use o f standardized tests. Informationon institutional and
economic factors associatedwith student achievement will provide appropriate policy guidance for
improvingeducational performance inBangladesh. QSDS will involve the utilization o f the data gathered


                                                     - 1 3 -

 by the M&EDivision andprocessedby EMIS, and gather supplemental data on aspects beyondthe
 mandate o f the M&E Division.

 To promote the achievement of key outcomes of PEDPII, up to 25% of the pooled funds will be releasedon
 the basis o f implementationperformance, as measuredby milestones that will combine process, systemand
 policy outcome indicators which are reflectedinthe PEDPIIpolicy matrix (Annex 1, Appendix 1) and key
 performance indicators. With at least 75% of pool funds representingpredictable financing, fundingo f key
 school-level objectives o f the Program will not be affected. The performance element o f the program funds
 will focus on investments that are considered to have limiteddirect impact at the school level, such as
 central-level capital expenditure, and thus act as an incentive for good performance by providing funding
 for those elements that add value to program implementation. Performance-based financing milestones and
 allocations will be decided duringthejoint annual reviews, taking into consideration progress inreforms
 duringthe AOP under review, andthe AOP prepared for the following year. The Govemment, ADB and
 PEDPII Development Partners will document their agreement on these issues inthe review reports.

Financial Management. DPE's Finance Unitunder the direct supervision o f ProgramManager will be
responsible for FMfunctions and ensuringclose collaboration with Program Coordination Unit (PCU) and
 four Technical Support Teams (TST) o f PEDP 11.

PEDP I1has three types o f funding: (a) co-financing by major development partners (pooled funding), (b)
bilateral funding (non-pooled funding), and (c) parallel financing for non-pooled financed procurement o f
goods and services for consultants advertised internationally. The DPE will maintain three separate US
Dollar Accounts in a nationalized commercial bank for ADB loan and ADB managed co-financing grant
funds and IDA credit.

PEDP I1will support civil works and other expenditures at District and Upazilas levels to be implemented
by LGED.For the part of the program to be executed by LGED, DPE will advance funds to LGED on the
basis o f funds requirements receivedfrom LGED. DPE will pay contractors at various locations against
contractual agreement and approved bills by the PTI, NAPE andNCTB. Incase o f training, organized by
PTI and NAPE, an advance may be paid to them on the basis o f approved training program. Details are in
Annex 6 (B).

There are eight staff inthe Finance UnitinDPE. DuringPEDP Iimplementation, these staff have
familiarized themselveswith Financialmanagement policy and procedures o f the Government and
Development Partners. The current staff is considered adequate for the initial six months. Inaddition, 16
additional positions have been created and approved by the GOB.

Procurement. Procurement will be handledby LGED, DPE and NCTB. Local procurement, constituting
about 85% o f the total procurement, i s to be financed from a common pool o f eleven Development
Partners, including IDA. Goods procuredthrough international competitive bidding(ICB) and consultants
selectedthrough international advertisements will be financed from outside the pool. ICB goods will
largely be financed by IDA (about 70% o f ICB goods), with the rest by ADB. Intemational consultants
will be financed by ADB and other DPs, excluding IDA. Details are inAnnex 6.

Pool-financed contracts include all civil works, most o f the goods (except paper, vehicles, etc.), and local
consultancy services. Procurement largely involves civil works relating construction o f schools (- 65% o f
total procurement), followed by leaming materials and consultancy assignments. Over 8,000 small works
contracts (mostly < S100,OOO) are expected to be implementedin491 upazilas. Giventhe dispersed
locations o f sites, most civil works contracts will be procured following national competitive bidding


                                                      - 1 4 -

procedures with some usingthree quotations. Procurement o f goods mainly involve text books and learning
materials, with small office equipment, furniture and vehicles. Major consultancy includes services
program coordination unit,organizational development, quality inschools and classrooms, and
infrastructure development. A draft Procurement Plan for the first year has beenprepared, reflecting IDA'S
comments, and was submittedduring GOB/IDA negotiations.

All pool-financed contracts will follow The Public Procurement Regulations 2003, satisfactory to IDA.
The Government mandatedthe new regulations effective September 30, 2003, prepared under the Public
Procurement ReformProject. Non-pooled contracts constitutingmostly ICB goods (paper) will follow IDA
Procurement Guidelineswhile remainingICB goods such as vehicles, and internationalconsultants will
follow ADB Guidelines.

All pool-financed contracts (works < $500,000, goods <$200,000, services <$200,000) will be subject to
post review/ procurement audit. All IDA financed ICB contracts for paper outside the pool will be subject
to prior review by IDA.

Supervision. Supervision will consist o f annual and thematic reviews. The Government and the
Development Partnerswill jointly review the annual implementationprogress o f PEDPII. AOPs will be the
main focus o f annual reviews. Thejointly agreed-upon AOP will be the basis for implementing and
financing PEDPII. The annual review will determine compliance with specific loan covenants, and whether
all required inputs and support functions on the Government's side are inplace. The review will also
evaluate the effectiveness of implementationmechanisms and the efficiency o f the organizational
development and capacity building for the program approach, and may result in a decision to continue them
or to adjust them. Joint reviews will specifically: (a) analyze the results o f the previous year; (b) identify
needed adjustments; (c) assess the impact o f the Program on poverty reduction; (d) assess program
contributions to the improvement o f the quality o f primary education; (e) assess implementation
performance against agreed-upon education policy issues; (f) identifyprimary education policy issues; and
(g) identifyconstraints to program implementation.

Special attention will be givento: (a) the effectiveness of program strategies for promoting greater
participation o f girls and disadvantaged groups; (b) progress on key program innovations, and assessing
learning outcomes and quality of teaching; and (c) coordination of interventions within the Program, and
integration o fprogram activities inthe government structure. Inaddition to AOPs, a detailed three-year
implementationplan (up to the MTR) will be prepared at inception, to reflect the Government's three-year
rolling plan cycle, andwill be updated on the basis o f an annual planningcycle. The Government and
PEDPII Development Partners will document their agreement on issues relating to performance-based
milestones taking into consideration progress inreforms during the AOP under review, and the AOP
prepared for the following year inthe annual review reports. In addition to thejoint annual reviews,
shorter thematic reviews will be held once a year.

Inaddition to thejoint annual reviews, joint thematic reviews will also beheldonce a year. These reviews
will focus on selected topics chosen inconsultation with MoPME.

Mid-term Review. The Government and the DPs will jointly undertake an MTR at the end o f the third year
of PEDPII implementationto assess the long-term vision for primary education inBangladesh, as presented
inthe Government's actionplan. The MTRwill evaluate: (a) PEDPIIscope, design, and implementation
arrangements, and institutional changes; (b) implementation progress against agreed upon indicators inthe
AOPs and the three-year implementation plan; (c) procurement performance; (d) PCU effectiveness; (e)
performance of consultants; (0fund flows and arrangements; (g) the geographic coverage o f Upazila


                                                     - 1 5 -

Education Plans (UPEPs) and SLIPSand their operation; (h) progress in implementing the gender action
plan, the vulnerable groups action plan, and the plan for ExpandingPrimary Education for Tribal
Children; (i)lessons leamed; and (j) other issues agreedupon by the Government and DPs. At the latest,
one monthprior to the MTR, DPE will submit to ADBPLU a comprehensive report covering the above
issues. Feedback from civil society on PEDPIIimplementationwill also be sought duringMTR. The
MTR will recommendchanges inprogram designand implementationarrangements, as necessary.



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:

Some altematives that were considered include:

(a) Program versus Project approach: Inlight of the difficulties encountered during PEDP I(numerous
projects, generally poorly performing, weakly managed, low disbursing and overlapping donor-financed
projects), GOBhas committed to implementingPEDPII as a sub-sector approach, whereby partners would
jointly support MoPME's program inprimary education. IDA also considered a stand-alone PEDPII
project focusing on quality improvements inprimary education with innovations inkey reform areas.
However, as a result o f extensive discussions during preparation, giventhe significant positive externalities
to jointly working with GOBand DPs on a program, the project altemative was abandoned. While support
for a program also has risks (for example, GOBcapacity is limitedand DPs may not fully coordinate their
support), Government and DPs consider that bringingtogether all major partners and stakeholders under a
common framework will help to utilize resourcescost-effectively, rationalize sector targets, and promote
GOBcapacity and leadership.

(b) Focus on a cluster ofprojects co-$nanced by variouspartners each led by ADB and IDA: This
option was considered and rejected largely due to similar arguments as those put forth inaltemative (a)
above.

(c) Focus only on governmentprimary schools or the entireprimary education sub-sector: While PEDP
I1is primarily focused on government schools, a significant proportion o f students-- close 8% --
                                                                                           to       are
enrolled innon-government primary schools (e.g. centersrunby NGOs), predominantly providing
education to the more disadvantaged segments o f the population. MoPME has, as yet, not beenable to
successfully exploit the synergies between its schools and these institutions. GivenBangladesh's
commitment to education for all, GOBi s exploring means to support non-formal primary education in
collaboration with DPs.

(d) Administrative aspects of Primary versus Secondary education: Primary education i s managed by
MoPME and secondary education by MOE. With respect to specific educational inputs such as textbooks,
the National Curriculumand Textbook Board (NCTB) is responsible for boththe primary and secondary
education sub-sectors. Given that textbooks and teacher recruitment are cross-cutting issues, focusing only
on MoPME's role inthese areas will exacerbatethe disjunction between the primary and secondary
education system where the cross-cutting issues are concemed. Wherever there are cross-cutting issues
MoPME and MOE will reach agreement on textbooks, and teacher recruitment to work collaboratively. A
coordinationcommittee has beenformed to reach agreementsinthe cross-cutting areas.




                                                   - 16-

2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                             Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                1             Project                (PSR) Ratings
                                                                        (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                        Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                            Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

Increase equitable access to primary       Bangladesh - General               S               S
and secondary schooling; improve           Education (Credit 2118-BD) -
quality o f education; strengthen          Closed (OED evaluation:
management capacity; and prepare           Satisfactory)
future policies and programs for higher
secondary and post-secondary
education reforms

Improve and expand non-formal              Bangladesh-Non-Formal              S               S
education; strengthencapacity to           Education (Credit 2822-BD)
deliverprograms through NGOs and           (Closed June 30,2001) (OED
district administration                    evaluation: Satisfactory)
I


Improve access to secondary education Bangladesh-Female                       S               S
and improve opportunities for rural        Secondary School Assistance
girls                                      Project (Credit 2469-BD)
                                           (Closed June 30,2001) (OED
                                           evaluation: Moderately
                                           Satisfactory)

Improve school quality and system          Bangladesh -Primary               S                S
efficiency; establish a cost-effective and Education Development (ITF
better managed education system; and       Credit N-038-BD)
m u r e universal coverage and equitable
Bccess to quality primary schooling

[mprove and expand non-formal             Bangladesh -Post-literacy and      U                S
:ducation; strengthen capacity to         Continuing Education for
Seliver programs through NGOs and         HumanDevelopment Project
improve links to labor market             (Credit 3467-BD)
3pportunities

[mprove the quality of, and girls"        Bangladesh-Female                  S               S
iccess to secondary education inrural     Secondary School Assistance
ireas                                     Project I1(Credit 3614-BD)
Ither development agencies
[mprove quality of, and access to,        Primary Education
ximary education, and strengthen          Development Project (Closed)
nanagement o f educational institutions   (ADB)
Zontribution to GOB'SPrimary              Effective Schools Through
Zducation Development Program             Enhanced Education



                                                    - 1 7 -

 (PEDP) to develop the management         Management (ESTEEM)
 capacity o f government to deliver a     DfID
 quality primary education for all.

 Improvingthe quality o f the teaching    Intensive DistrictApproach To
 andlearning inthe primary schools and EducationFor (IDEAL)
 to ensure participation o f local        SIDA, ADB, IDA, Aus-Aidand
 communities intheir children's           UNICEF
 education inBangladesh

To improve quality ofprimary              Primary Education
 education; improvement o f classroom     Development Project for
learning                                  Quality Improvement
                                          (PEDPQI)
                                          RoyalNorwegian Embassy

Provide quality basic education to        Non-Formal Education Project
urban working children insix cities and (NFE-3, Basic Education for
safe and supportive environment to        Hard to Reach Urban Children
facilitate their movement out of          Project) UNICEF, SIDA and
hazardous work.                           DfID

Poverty reduction through access to       BRAC Non- Formal Primary
non-formal primary education for those Education (NFPE 111)
traditionally outside formal schooling.   EC, DfID, DGIS, UNICEF,
                                          AKF/CIDA

To provide a mix o f formal and           UnderprivilegedChildren's
non-formal education and skills training Education Program (UCEP)
followed byjob placement services for Phase IV DffD, Royal
the urbanpoor working children,           NorwegianEmbassy, DANIDA
resultingingainful employment or          and Swiss Development
self-employment                           Corporation
ImplementingAgency: UCEP


ExpandNon-Formal Education in             Non-Formal Education I1
Bangladesh through post-literacy and      Project ADB/DfID
continuing education programs
'/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory), H (Highly Unsatis :tory)


3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:

Main lessons from previous education projects are:

   0     Quality improvement in Bangladesh primary schools will require a combination of coordinated
        interventions implementedover a considerable time-span. A program supported by multiple
        components requires flexible and responsive implementation. Harmonizing the support o f
        Development Partners increases efficiency, national ownership, capacity and coherence.



                                                   - 18-

          A project by project approach to improvingprimary education impacts capacity buildingand
          human resource development negatively. It is necessary to institutionalizedevelopment programs
          within the organizational and administrative framework of the MoPME and DPE and to implement
          PEDPII through the line structures. PEDPII will be located within the Directorate o f Primary
          Education (DPE) with clear implementationlines, working through the Program Coordination Unit,
          through Divisions, Districts, and Upazilas to schools and communities.
          The present capacity of DPE and MoPME mustbe strengthenedto manage sub-sectoral programs
          that would be sustainable inthe longer term. Project Directors heading PIUs extemal to DPE will
          not be used inPEDPII, but professional education officers from within the DPE, assistedby well
          qualified specialists undertechnical assistance, will implement all aspects o f the program in order
          to institutionalize planning and implementation skills and ensure the sustainability of PEDPII
          investments.
          A comprehensive M&E system, including establishing an agreedbaseline, is fundamental to the
          success o f PEDPIIboth to ensure that the program i s meetingits systemic goals and also to
          provide informatioddata for real-time corrective action. M&E activities will be developed and
          implemented from DPE down to District, Upazila and school levels. Resourceswill be provided to
          enable research, surveys and impact studies to be carried out as part o f its formative and
          summative evaluation strategies.
          Financial management is a key factor in contributing to the effectiveness of interventions to
          improve education quality. Financial management capacity will be strengthenedwithin the DPE to
          track, monitor and coordinate national programs. Under PEDPII, the DPE (Finance Division) will
          have primary responsibility for financial management, assistedby the PCU, the concemed DPE
          line Divisions and specialists under technical assistance.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:

GOBhas had a long-standing commitment to basic education for over three decades. Through the I-PRSP,
GOBis committedto achievinguniversal primary educationby 2010, as one ofthe main instrumentsof
poverty reduction. Education spending, currently at 2.2 percent o f GDP, represents a relatively large
share o f total govemment spending (about 15%). About 50% percent o f this spending is directed to
primary education. MoPME originated the dialogue with Development Partners for the development of
PEDPII, which resultedinthe Macro-Plan for primary education inJanuary 2003. This plan represents
MoPME's vision o f the development o f primary education nationally over the next six years, and, as such,
it reflects the Government's goals of a quality primary education for all. PEDPIIputs this Macro Plan into
operation.

MoPME has already started some of the interventions included under PEDPII, for example, the stipend
program, around US$864 million over the next six years, which GOB i s financing from its own resources.
Overall, about two-thirds o f Program costs will be borne by GOB. Inaddition to the PEDPII, GOB is keen
to meet the goals o f Education For All (UPE by 2010), with a strong desire to meet its Millennium
Development educational goals. To this end, it has recently completed a National Plan o f Action for EFA
on the basis of extensive stakeholder discussions. Discussions on EFA are ongoing.

5. Value added of Bank supportinthis project:

IDA'Ssupport complements that providedby other DPs both financially as well as on the technical and
analytical fronts. The major value added o f the Bank's support for this program can be characterized by:
(a) recent analytical work (e.g. Education Sector Strategy, Poverty Assessments) undertakenby IDA which
has influenced the design o f PEDPII by demonstrating that investingineducation quality i s crucial for



                                                     - 19-

poverty reduction; (b) the experience gained by IDA'Sinvolvement inPEDPI, and primary sub-sector
operations in Bangladesh for the last three decades, coupled with its vast international experience in
primary education, have played an important role inimprovingproject design; (c) the experience gained in
many countries through participation in sub-sector programs which is of particular relevance to the
Government's management and implementationo f the program; and (d) the leadrole IDA is taking in
harmonizing global donor assistanceprocedures has provided guidance to both GOB and DPs on
harmonization o f procedures inPEDPII.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare intheproject file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=USS1220 million; ERR = 13.88 YO(see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)

Enhancedprimaryeducation i s strongly correlated with poverty reduction, economic development and
increased productivity. PEDPII aims to provide quality primary school education to the children of
Bangladesh to put them on the road towards better employment and income-earning possibilities.

Challenges to enhance educational quality and increase access to the disadvantaged arise out o f constraints
to educational growth and improvement which can be classified into three types: (a) Demand side       - those
that prevent children from going to school or from benefitingfrom the educational services provided by the
school -  e.g. poverty, direct costs of schooling, opportunity costs, the special needs of some children; (b)
Supply-side - factors that limit their capacity to provide adequate quality education opportunities for
children living inthe area, e.g. inaccessible schools, short contact hours, inadequate facilities, untrained
trained teachers, lack of teaching and learning resources, teacher absenteeism; and (c) Institutional -
policies and administrative arrangements that can keep the system from performing at an acceptable level -
e.g. the "shift" system, weak organizational capacity, centralized management, and inadequate funding
arrangements. PEDPII aims to address these constraints by increasing primary school access, participation
and completion; and through improvingthe quality o f student learning and performance outcomes.

Preliminary rates o f return have also been computed on the basis of alternative assumptions regarding the
internal and external efficiency o f the system. Based on these assumptions, the program yields an Internal
Economic Rate o f Returno f 13.9 percent. Sensitivity analysis usingalternative assumptions on the
external and internal efficiency o f the system demonstrate that the rate o f retum will vary between six
percent inthe "low" case scenario to 21percent inthe "high" case. Simulations also demonstrate that in
terms o f the proportion o fpublic expenditures, the program becomes more pro-poor. By the end o f the
program nearly 67 percent o f public expenditures will be targeted to the poor (as compared to 56 percent
currently). These assumptions and scenarios are discussed in detail inAnnex 4.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)



Fiscal Impact:

Long-term sustainability o f the benefits o f PEDPII i s dependent on two key factors: (a) the availability o f
revenue to meet the additional recurrent costs that will arise inevitably from the adoption of the PEDPII
strategy; and (b) the willingness o f Government to meet those new recurrent costs at the possible expense o f



                                                     - 20 -

other budget claims. The Government has indicated its firm commitment to continue, long-term, with the
sustained improvement o f primary education. The Government also has included in its Medium-Term
Macroeconomic Framework (MTMF), over the three years to FY2005, increasedbudgetary allocations to
the education sector, rising successively both nominally and inpercentage terms year by year. The
Government has made it clear that it regards the successful development and continuance o f high-quality
primary education as one o f its highest priorities.

From a fiscal perspective, in year FY 2009-10 (1st year after the program), the government's total primary
education allocation is estimated to be US$666 million in development budget (US309 million including
stipends) and revenue budget (US$357 million). As a result o f PEDPIIthe annual recurrent expenditures
will increase by US$93 millionfollowing the program period. By this shift, the FY 2009-10 allocation for
the recurrent and development budgets will then be $450 million and $216 million, respectively. Hence, for
the program outcomes to be sustainable, development expenditure cannot exceed US$216 million. These
estimates are discussed inmore detail inAnnex 4.

3. Technical:
Key challenges remain especially inregardto achieving quality primary education towards EFA goals,
some o f the most important o f which are outlined below.

Curriculum and Textbooks. The National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) is responsible for
carrying out required changes to the curriculum and for the production o f textbooks. Through PEDP I,
MoPME has brought about significant changes to the primary curriculum, and a key task under PEDPII is
ensuring that the new revised curriculum be fully adopted both inthe delivery o f teacher education and in
actual classroom teaching. Textbook development i s one area o f weakness o f the primary educational
system, with low quality textbooks produced at high costs. Under PEDPII,the aim will be to increase the
transparency inthe selection and approval o f textbooks, with competitive production to ensure better
quality textbooks in a cost-effective and timely manner. These changes can only materialize with the
systematic restructuring and strengthening o f the N C T B which is envisaged to be undertaken as part o f
PEDPII.

Assessment. While inthe short-term, assessments will be carried out through contracts with recognized
independent private institutions, MoPME has agreed to set up under PEDPII a National Assessment Cell to
replace the dismantled Assessment Unit inNCTB, formed under one o f the projects o f PEDPI, to carry out
major assessments incollaboration with other primary educational institutions.

Teacher Development. A key challenge will be to strengthen initial and in-service teacher education
programs, while also improving and enhancing teacher recruitment, certification, incentives and
accountability. Inparallel, capacity-building will needto take place inall educational institutions dealing
with teacher development. GOBhas estimated that over the Program period, 35,000 new teachers needto
be trained inaddition to the existing backlog o f about 40,000 untrained teachers. While MoPME is
committed to achieving these goals, they will pose a challenge given the insufficient training capacity, and
the large number o f unfilled instructor posts at PTIs.

Increasing access to disadvantaged groups. In support o f GOB'SEFA goal o f 100% primary education
enrollment by 2010, M o P M E has already introduced a program o f stipends to the poorest 40% o f children
according to approved eligibility criteria. Apart from this, PEDPII also includes provision o f primary
education to disadvantaged groups (e.g. primary school age children with disabilities, and children intribal
areas), which could pose greater difficulties than have been hitherto encountered in expanding access to
primary education.



                                                     -21 -

Educational Management.. To enhance management o f primary education, a crucial element under
 PEDPII will be the establishment o f a primary education cadre, and o f a human resource development and
 management strategy, with emphasis on stability and retention o f trained staff, and greater devolution o f
 authority and decision-making at the upazila and school management levels. Equally important is the need
 to strengthenboth the National Academy o f Primary Education and the NationalCurriculum and Textbook
 Board, as well as to give more autonomy to them.

Monitoring and Evaluation. To facilitate effective use o f data for policy formulation, planning and
 decision-making, a comprehensive M&E scheme will be establishedto ensure proper program monitoring
 andaccountability at all levels. The M&EDivisioninDPE, working closely with EMIS, will be
responsible for all intemal monitoring o f PEDP 11. GOB and Development Partnershave agreedthat
 extemal monitoring will be requiredto ensure the validity of data gathered. The responsibility for this
 function will be outsourced. A new element to be introducedis a Quantitative Service Delivery Survey
 (QSDS), which will serve as a diagnostic tool for analyzing data on education and education finance from
 a governance standpoint.

4. Institutional:
The administration and management ofprimary education inBangladesh is carriedout at six levels: central,
departmental, divisional, district, upazila and school levels. The central level i s representedby MoPME
and DPE. DPE consists o f five divisions -Administration, Planning and Development, Training,
Monitoring and Evaluation and NAPE - each headedby a Director. Inaddition there is an EMIS headed
by a systemmanager. Their main functions are briefly listedbelow:


0   Administration: Deals with administrative and establishment matters o f the directorate.
    Planning and Development: Responsible for formulating and implementingprojects. This includes
    liaising with donor agencies, and monitoring and evaluating all development projects.
0   Training: Responsible for training all DPE officers and staff, PTI instructors and primary school
    teachers. I t also performs training needs assessments.
    Monitoring and Evaluation; Responsible for the M&E functions o f DPE. Mainresponsibilities
    include collecting detailed information andreporting on enrollments, attendance, teachers etc. This
    division is currently also responsible for distribution o f books produced through the NCTB.
0   NAPE; Responsible for providing academic directives and support to teacher training institutions.

An organizational analysis andreview after effectiveness will recommend ways inwhich DPE line divisions
would be restructured to enhance their implementation capacity.

At the Departmental level, staff are responsible for coordinating, supervising, andmonitoringprimary
education activities ina number of Divisions. At the Division level, the DPE staff are responsible for
coordinating, supervising, and monitoringprimary education activities in a numbero f Districts. They also
register non-government schools. District level officials report to the Division level and are responsible for
the academic development ofprimary education inthe Upazilas within the District, particularly with
respect to the establishment andadministration o f primary schools. Upazilas Education Officers (UEOs)
supported by Assistant UEOs maintain records for all schools, prepare and conduct annual inspection
programs and provide academic supervision at the upazila level.

Additionally, Primary Training Institutes (PTIs) provide training for up to 10,500 students annually
offering a one-year course leading to a Certificate inEducation. Furthermore, Upazilas Resource Centers



                                                     - 22 -

(URCs) are aimed at providing professional support to a large number o f primary school teachers.

Withregard to the existing capacity, the system has been made less effective by long-standing systemic
problems, including the large number o f vacancies and highrates o f rotation o f staff at all levels.
Resources available have not resulted insignificant improvements in delivering quality education. The
principal factors behind the systemic ineffectiveness are the lack o f informedpolicy formulation and
planning for development, poor linkage and coordination inoverall educational development, and
centralized management.. This has resulted ina: (a) lack o f institutionalization and sustainability o f
projects/programs and activities; (b) duplication o f programs and activities, causing neglect and
indifference among the incumbents; and (c) lack o f capacity inthe key institutions (DPE, NCTB, NAPE,
PTIs, etc.).

4.1 Executing agencies:

MoPME will establish a Program Steering Committee to oversee the implementation o f PEDPII with the
DPE as the executing agency for the Program. Direct responsibility for implementation i s vested inDPE
line Divisions, which will strengthen ownership, accountability, and sustainability.


4.2 Project management:

The DPE Director, under MoPME's leadership, will be directly responsible for program management,
aided by the Program Coordinating Unit (PCU) and technical assistance. The P C U will be assisted by the
respective DPE line Divisions. Program management capacity in each District andUpazila will be
strengthened through training workshops for staff inmodem techniques o f progradproject management
which encompasses the following skills: planning and execution o f civil works, procurement o f equipment
and other materials, project accounting and disbursements, and program M&E. Special emphasis will be
given to financial planning and management and the importance o f keeping financial accounts in step with
program implementation. The training will take into consideration experience inearlier primary education
projects. Harmononized procedures, agreed between GOB and the eleven participating DPs, in financial
management and reporting, disbursement, audit, local procurement and supervision will lessen the burden,
and reduce transaction costs, for the Government.

4.3 Procurement issues:

Poor public procurement practice i s a major impediment affecting project implementation in Bangladesh.
The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) identified a series o f deficiencies, including absence
o f a sound legal framework goveming public sector procurement leading to inconsistent application o f
outdated rules; protractedbureaucratic procedures allowing multi-point rent seeking; lack o f a critical mass
o f trained professionals to carry out procurement; and absence o f mechanisms for ensuring transparency
and accountability inpublic procurement. The GOB has endorsed the findings and recommendations o f the
CPAR and with IDA'Sassistance begun to implement the basic reforms under the Public Procurement
Reform Project (PPRP). The team assessedprocurement management capacity o f LGED, DPE, and
NCTB. For civil works, LGED has experience inimplementing several IDA-financed projects and has
good knowledge and expertise to carry out project procurement activities. For goods and consultants'
services, DPE has limited experience with IDA-financed procurement. N C T B has some experience o f
procuring I C B goods (papers) in PEDP following IDA procedures. Considering that large part o f the
procurement will follow national procurement rules and the volume o f procurement and its present strength,
the program related procurement risk i s rated substantial.

As part o fthe advance procurement action, NCTB has finalized the biddingdocuments for procurement o f
printingpaper through ICB following IDA Guidelines, and ADB is assisting DPE inhiringintemational



                                                    - 23 -

consultants for the program coordination unit.

To mitigate the procurement-associated risks, institutionalize and strengthenprocurement management
capacitylaccountability, and ensure advance procurement actions as part o f the program preparation, the
following arrangements have been made/agreed: (a) by ADB's Loan effectiveness, DPE will designatetwo
procurement staff (from existingprocurement staff inPEDP) inthe finance and procurement unit and at
least one inNCTB, to handle procurement throughout the program period; (b) DPE will be assistedby two
procurement consultants o f PCU for the entire program period; (c) all staff dealing with procurement at
various levels o f DPE/ NCTB/ LGED will undergo mandatory training inPPRP's procurement training
program; and (d) MOPME/DPE/ ADB (through its program liaisonunit)will carry out procurement audit
o f a sample o f about 20% contracts from the pooled fund on terms o f reference acceptable to the DPs.

4.4 Financial management issues:

The existing GOB systemis considered adequate for the program. There will be a sector specific FM
Manual which will draw and collate information from the existing system o f GOB. A single set o f Financial
MonitoringReports (FMRs) will be used for the program. The lessons drawn from the PEDPIon a
projectized F M system, separate software and temporary project staff have been well-learnt and usedin
designing this project.

All previous audit reports o fIDA-assistedPEDP Ihave beenreceivedon time. The annual consolidated
financial statements will be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General o f Bangladesh. The audit
report will be submitted to the Project Liaison Unit (PLU) of the ADB within six months o f the endo f each
fiscal year.

The Government andthe DPs have agreedon a time-bound FMimprovement plan to address weaknesses
identified inthe FMassessment and to further strengthen FM capacity in DPE and MOPME. Under the
oversight and management o f ADB, a PEDP I1LiaisonUnit (PLU) will guide, supervise and monitor all
major issues affecting financial management o f PEDP 11.

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis,

The PEDPIIprogramplaces particular emphasis on improvingthe learning environment, including
classroom construction and renovation, and the provision o f arsenic-safe water supply and sanitation
facilities. The principal environmental concerns o f the program relate to the needto ensure (i)the safety of
school water supplies, particularly from arsenic contamination, (ii) the provision and maintenance of
adequate sanitation, and (iii)adherence to appropriate environmental codes o f practice inthe design and
construction o f new schools and classrooms. Guidelineshave been developed to address each o f these
issues, and have been discussedwith the Government and other stakeholders, andmade publicly available
prior to appraisal.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?

The EMP consists of three separateguidelines covering (i) provisiono f safe water supplies, (ii)
                                                               the                                   the
design, construction and maintenance o f sanitary latrines, and (iii)environmental codes o fpractice for
design andconstructionof school buildings.

5.3 For Category A andBprojects, timeline and status o f EA:
                    Date o f receipt o f final draft: April 7,2003




                                                      - 24 -

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedandwhich groups were consulted?

The Guidelines for water supply, latrines, and buildingconstruction have beenprepared and agreedby
MoPME, LGED and DPHE, inconsultation with appropriate stakeholders at the local level (see Annex
 12).


5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablished to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?

LGEDwill supervise the construction andrehabilitation of school buildings, and the installation of safe
water supplies and latrines. This supervision will include monitoringto ensure that the Guidelinesprepared
for the EMP are adhered to.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

Poverty i s one o f the major barriers hinderingprogress towards universal access to education. Currently
around 25% children between age 6-10 are out o f school (Education Watch, 1999 and HIES 2000), and
among these children, 79% are poor. Children, especially girls from vulnerable groups such as poorest
families, tribal population, children with disabilities (CWD), children living indisaster prone areas - such
as coastal islands, river erosion and drought areas, and urban slum are not able to attend school. There are
manyreasons for this some ofthese children are working, others -especially tribal children -do not
                        -
attend school due to language barriers. Inadequate physical facilities and difficult terrain in hilly areas are
also impedimentsto accessingeducation. Research indicates that only four percent o f children with
disabilities (CWD) are able to attend school, while 60 percent o f CWD could attend primary school with
little or no adaptation to the physical facilities, while another 20 percent could attend with some adaptation.
The vulnerable groups lack `voice' and participation in school management and monitoring and not able to
ensure quality o f education for their children.

Social development outcomes for the program will include: (a) increasing access o f CWD, tribal, refugee
and poor children to primary education; (b) increasing the completion rates for these children; and (c)
enhancing participation of parents o f vulnerable children in SMCs.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

PEDPII was prepared through extensive consultationwith stakeholders such as the government, training
institutes, school management, teachers, students, tribal representatives, donors, andNGOs. Social
assessment for PEDP-I1included focus group discussions and workshops with stakeholders, especially
existingstudents and their families. Duringpre-appraisal, a one-day social development workshop was
organized by the government whei-e social issues inPEDPII, especially relating to gender, disability,
working children and tribal concems were discussed and constraints and appropriate interventions were
identified and incorporated inprogram design. A plan for `Expanding Primary Education o f Tribal
Children' was developed in consultationwith the tribal population, tribal NGOs and NGOs providing
education service to tribal children, and was finalized on the basis o f consultations at a workshop organized
by MoPME during appraisal.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?



                                                       -25 -

The partnership with stakeholders at community level developed duringPEDPI will continue during
PEDPII. NGOs will continue to provide primary education usingnon-formal and community school system
to vulnerable groups. The government will continue to consult Parent Teacher Association (PTA) and
School Management Committee (SMC), academics, women's organizations and other advocacy
organizations periodically for receiving feedback on the progress o f EFA and PEDP-11. The SMC will
include at least 2 mothers out o f 5 representatives from the parents. One female representative from union
council/municipality will be included inthe SMC. Similarly, the PTA will include 3 mothers out o f 5
representatives from parents. The courtyard meeting o f the mothers, and school visit by them should be
part of the social mobilization activities. SMC and PTA will be trained so that they are able to monitor the
quality o f education inprimary schools. External agencies will be recruited to monitor progress o f quality
as well as inclusion o f vulnerable children ineducation.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The partnership among the parents, community and education system will be given more emphasis in
PEDPII. To enhance participation o f parents and the community, emphasis will be given to strengthening
the capacity o f Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) and School Management Committee (SMC). Awareness
raising campaigns and appropriate training for SMCs and PTAs will be built into program activities to
ensure that the community can benefit fully from program outcomes. The role, responsibility and reporting
system o f the SMC and P T A will be clearly defined. The experience o f community contributions to school
maintenance funds under PEDPI will be expanded.

GOBhas initiated a stipends program for the poorest 40 percent o f children. Withinthe Inclusive Education
component, M o P M E has developed a strategy for children with disabilities (CWD), a gender strategy, and
a Plan for Expanding Primary Education o f Tribal Children. Special need based facilities will be
established inurban, remote, environmentally fragile, disaster prone and tribal areas for improving access
to the vulnerable children. The plan for Tribal Children will be implemented within the existing
institutional arrangement o f MoPME. At the national level, the Director, Policy and Operations
Department (POD), DPE will be the focal point for the implementation and monitoring o f the plan, which
will be reviewed duringthe annual supervision missions. MOPME andDPEwill design and carry out a
study to determine a baseline data o f tribal education and will include key monitoring indicators inthe
EMIS. Training will be providedto teachers and facilities will be improved so that CWD are able to attend
schools. An Assistant Director, Special Education, two special education advisors and technical staff will
be recruited in DPE. Furthermore there will be special education offices for every district. Teachers will be
trained to teach C W D and special materials will be developed.

Inthe district and upazila, the DPEOand UPEOwill be the focal points of Inclusive Educationintheir
respective areas. A District Coordination Committee will be established ineach district, chaired by the
DPEO and consisting o f representatives o f tribal groups, NGOs and other stakeholders. The District
Special Education Advisor will be responsible for monitoring progress with regards to vulnerable groups.
Upazila education committees would include representatives o f local government, NGOs and relevant
stakeholders.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?

Social development outcomes will be monitored by the Quantitative Service Delivery Survey (QSDS) and
the EducationManagement Information System. Informatioddatawill be collated, analyzed and reported
as part o f the overall responsibility o f DPE's Monitoring and Evaluation Division. A baseline o n
educational status of vulnerable groups e.g. tribal, CWD, children from poorest families and remote areas


                                                      - 26 -

will be conducted at the beginningof PEDPII, which will be includedinEMIS.Furthermore, rapid
assessments and in-depthsurvey will be conducted to monitor special social concerns.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

(a)      Environment
(b)      Indigenous - Plan for Expanding Primary Education for Tribal Children

Two safeguards have beentriggered and MoPME has developed plans for addressing these issues. MoPME
has developed an EMP for providing arsenic safe water and sanitation to children and teachers inprimary
schools.

A Planfor Expanding Education ofTribal Children has been developed by MoPME inconsultation with
tribal population, local government, NGOs and MoPME officials to address the needs o f tribal children
within PEDPII (See Annex 13). The following actions will be undertaken: (a) extension and rehabilitation
o f the existing govemment primary school (GPS) for the out o f school tribal children will be undertaken on
a priority basis; (b) capacity buildingo f tribal institutions, social mobilization and inclusive SMC will be
established intribal areas for motivating parents to send children to school; (c) development o f appropriate
supplementary reading materials intribal languages; (d) recruitment and training o f teachers intribal areas;
(e) MoPME will carry out a baseline survey on tribal education during the first year o f implementation,
include key indicators inEMIS and conduct annual assessment.

The following are social development indicators for the tribal population which will be monitoredby
EMIS: (a) increased enrolment and completion rates; (b) increased participation and voice in SMC; and (c)
quality o f education.




                                                        - 27 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

Several factors are important for program sustainability. First, it is crucial to buildcapacity within the
government formal structure to manage the program. For this reason, PEDPII, unlike PEDP I,will ensure
that capacity buildingtakes place within the existing primary education system as opposed to fostering
separate extemal units focused on implementation of a particular operation. Further, under PEDPII, it is
proposed that a primary education cadre be established to ensure more stability o f personnel, and adequate
training will be provided to staff at all levels. Inaddition, increasing accountability throughout the system
will help ensure that the desiredinterventions and successfulexperiments are well supported and
implemented. Critical policy decisions needto be taken relatingto NAPE andNCTB's institutional
s!mcture, functions and responsibilities and corresponding capacity and functional mechanisms put inplace
to ensure continuedassuranceo f quality within the system. The strong emphasis PEDPII will place on
Monitoring and Evaluation, linkingit with District and Upazila Education Offices, should strengthen data
collection, analyses and reporting, thus providing a stronger base for policy formulation and planning.

Second, MoPME i s working with appropriate sections o f the Government to maintain management
continuity within MoPMEDPE and within the District and Upazila offices. This is essential for the
institutionalization o f progradproject planning and implementation skills, a prerequisite for institutional
sustainability.

Third, it is critical that the Government is able to meet the recurrent cost implications o f the PEDPII
program. The financial sustainability o f the program i s computedunder the assumptions that: (a) the
existing teachers presently supported by the development budget, and an additional 35,000 new teachers
that are sanctioned, will be transferred to the revenuebudget; (b) materials costs are maintained; (c) repairs
and maintenance costs are now included inthe revenuebudget; and (d) the cost o f implementing the stipend
program shifts to the revenue budget. Based on projections o f the government's primary education budget
in2009-2010, the systemshouldbe able to absorb the additional recurrent costs. This is discussedindetail
inAnnex 4.



2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                       Risk                        Risk Rating     I           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Access to quality primary education is not              M           Provision o f well-targeted stipends to the
improved to such an extent that this will                           poorest 40 percent children to ensure retention
lead to increased productivity, and                                 and increase demand for primary education
therefore increased income, and ultimately                          among poor childredfamilies
to a reduction inpoverty.
                                                                    Increased awareness campaign would reinforce
                                                                    the importance o f a good quality primary
                                                                    education

                                                                    Government commitment to improve the quality
                                                                    o f primary education

Implementationcapacity o f                              S           Establishment o f an education cadre to ensure
MoPME/DPE, and at district and upazila                              long-term sustainability through retention o f



                                                      - 28 -

levels i s not improved                              technical expertise

                                                     Interventions to increase capacity-building at
                                                     district and upazila levels, with greater authority
                                                     and responsibility



From Components to Outputs
GOB fails to allocate resources for a         N      GOB to increase resources going to the sector
sustainable operation for an improved                during PEDPII, thereby allowing GOB to focus
primary education systemas requiredand               more on quality, and to increaseper-pupilcost
on time

GOB to increase resources going to the        S      GOB recently reinstated the Primary and Mass
sector to allow it to focus on quality               EducationDivision as the Ministryo f Primary
improvements                                         and Mass Education, directly under the
                                                     leadership o f the Prime Minister to increase
                                                     focus on provision o f quality primary education

Teachers and educators do not apply           M      Adequate, appropriate training will be provided
competency-basedand child-centered                   to trainers, headteachers, teachers and AUEOs
education principles                                 with academic supervision focusing increasingly
                                                     on creating an enabling environment for
                                                     child-centered education to take place



Teachers are not released from non-school     M      Professional supervisory and advisory capacity
andnon-teaching related official duties              at the district and upazila level will be enhanced

                                                     Bettertraining and new roles and incentives for
                                                     teachers will minimize non-teaching activities by
                                                     teachers

SMCs and communities do not actively          S      Role o f SMCs, PTAs and communities will be
participate in school maintenance and                enhanced, and they will be trained in school
managementactivities                                 level management and maintenance

                                                     School Improvement Grants to be provided and
                                                     implemented inclose consultation with SMCs

Programs and measures o f special needs       M      The campaigns mentioned immediately above,
:ducation are not appreciated and not                andappropriate mechanisms to reach out to
utilizedby the intendedbeneficiaries                 intendedbeneficiaries, with the neededextra
                                                     support, will reinforce these programs and
                                                     measures

4greement cannot be reachedbetween            S      MoE/MoPME to develop jointly NCTB
LloE and MoPME on the hture structure                restructuring



                                            - 29 -

land status o f NCTB

 Continuing resistanceto change in                                              S            MoPME has agreedto developjointly with MoE
 textbook development, production and                                                        a plan on efficient procurement o f textbooks,
 distribution from factions with vested                                                      including paper (whichwill also include
 interests inretainingthe status quo make                                                    privatization)
 it impossible to bringabout constructive
 change for the benefito f Bangladesh's
 children and education system

 Government and development partners                                                         GOB has recently adopted a program approach
 cannot agree on common coordination                                                         inmanagingPEDPII, andwill use harmonized
 principles and implementation                                                               procedures, principles, andimplementation
 mechanisms and adhere to agreed                                                             mechanisms to ensure effective coordination
 procedures

 Staffing o f the FMUo f the MOPME:                                                          MOPME and MOF agreed to address staffing
 FMUwithout appropriate staff and its                                                        issues in the FMUthrough FMRP.
 dependency on consultants leads to risk o f
 sustainability and effectiveness.




 Overall Risk Rating                                                            S
n!-i.--L!--
KISK nauny   - I I I I
               n (niyri
                      ,:-I-n:-i.\
                           K I S K ~ ,n
                                     a (auustaritiai KIS j,
                                       , ~ . . I - - L - - L : - ~n:-  IVI ~iviouestKISK~, 17Negligible or Low Risk)




Undertaking a program approach inthe primary education sub-sector inBangladesh i s a new experience
for the Government. Some Govemment agencies initially resisted this approach, preferringthe
conventional project mode. One argument i s that inthe case o f independentprojects, should one or two
fail, the country still has others to fall back on, which would not, according to their understanding, be
possible inthe case o f a program. Another i s that with individualprojects, their respective implementation
unitdirectors wouldbe responsible and therefore have immediateand identifiable responsibility, and
therefore, direct accountability. Ina program with shared responsibility it might be difficult to identify
those directly responsible and accountable. To allay these concerns, action has beentaken to disseminate
information, and engage indiscussions with major interlocutors, on the essential requirements o f a program
approach and its advantages and benefits. Duringthe pre-appraisal mission inApril-May 2003, two
workshops were heldto increasethe level o f understanding o f program approach among key stakeholders.

Under PEDPII, critical reforms incurriculum and textbook development are also planned. However NCTB
i s under the direct responsibility o f the Ministry o f Education (which i s responsible for secondary and
higher education). Thus, any reformis likely to runinto significant problems unless the Ministry of
Education (MoE) i s also amenable to them. To ensure that agreement is reached on cross-cutting issues
between the two ministries, a coordination committee has been established between MoPME and MoE,
under the chairmanship o fthe Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister. Discussions are ongoing on
proposed structural changes amenable to both MoE and MoPME, leading to the improved functioning o f




                                                                             - 30 -

NCTB,

PEDPII envisages widespread improvements inteaching quality, which would involve changing the criteria
for teacher recruitment, providing incentives (salary and non-salary), and increasing teacher accountability.
Itis possible that objections will be raisedfrom other sectors ofthe civil service regarding, for instance, the
provisiono f incentive packages only to teachers. A related controversial aspect o f the program will be the
hiringofpersonnel at higher salaries(as comparedto the government norm) to attract well-qualified
technical and professional nationals inthe PCU. Dissemination strategiesare being devised as part o f the
program to ensure full transparency regardingprobable changes inincentives.


G. Main Credit Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
IDA does not have any effectiveness condition. However, the effectiveness conditions for the ADB are: (a)
the Program Proforma (PP) consistent with the ADB Board document and loan agreement will have been
approved by the Government; (b) the Program Steering Committee will have beenestablished; and(c) the
Joint Program Director to work with the PCU will have beenidentified. Therefore, IDA will declare credit
effectiveness only after GOB has provided written confirmation that these conditions have beenmet.


2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

The following is a summary ofthe covenants under the IDA Credit Agreement and the ADB Loan
Agreement, which were agreedduring the respective negotiations:

IDA Covenants:

AccountdAudit. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain separate accounts for the project ina format
acceptable to the IDA; (b) furnish to IDA audit reports conducted by independentauditors, acceptable to
IDA,within six months from the end ofeach fiscal year; and (c) furnish, through DPE, quarterly Financial
MonitoringReports (within 45 days from the endo f each quarter) commencing from Credit Effectiveness
untiltheprogram closure.

Program Management. The Borrower shall: (a) appoint a Program Steering Committee, with
representation from government agencies and other stakeholders acceptable to IDA, whose responsibility
will be to (i)
             guide MoPME/DPE on policy and operations; (ii)        undertake inter-ministerial coordination to
achieve PEDPII reforms; (iii)  resolve issues and conflicts; and (iv) approve annual plans, budgets, and
progress reports; (b) appoint a Program Coordinator full-time to be incharge o f the Program Coordination
Unit(PCU), reportingdirectly to the DirectorGeneral, DPE who will be the ProgramDirector charged
with the execution o f the Program, assisted by a full-timejoint Program Director, and four Technical
Support Teams (TSTs) (comprising international andnational consultants); (c) take all necessary and
appropriate steps to gradually decentralize planning and management functions o f PEDPII activities, and o f
education activities in general, to the districts, upazila and schools; and (d) ensure that by December 31,
2004 Upazila Primary EducationPlans (UPEPs) are prepared and approved for 20 percent o f the upazilas,
and that by mid-termreview, all upazilas shall have annual operational UPEPs.

The PCU shall support DPE in coordinating and monitoring PEDPII implementation activities through
DPE's line divisions, mainly through (a) preparing three-year Program implementation plans and Annual



                                                      - 31  -

Operation Plans; (b) coordinating procurement activities; (c) preparing and maintaining financial records,
accounts and statements; (d) preparingall consolidated progress reports, including mid-termreview report
andcompletion report; (e) organizing monitoring and evaluation activities; (0coordinating the work of
TSTs; (g) liaising with the PEDPII Liaison Uniton program implementation; and (h) reviewing the
monitoringand evaluation report prepared by the M&EDivision o f DPE for annual review missions. DPE
line divisions, led by line directors, shall implementPEDPII as part o f their regular responsibilities and
activities, and report as usual to the Director General (Program Director), DPE. They will be supported by
TSTs.

Monitoring Review and Reporting. The Borrower shall: (a) establish a Monitoring and Evaluation
Scheme to monitor quality education throughout the system, including a public expenditure tracking
system; (b) monitor and evaluate program progress and achievement of the Programobjectives, in
accordance with the performance indicators agreed with IDA and other DPs, and furnishto DPs the results
of such review as part o f a semi-annual progress report; (c) submit to DPs, two months prior to the
mid-termreview, a comprehensive report onprogramprogress and achievementsby mid-term;and (d)
review such report with DPs, by May 31,2007, or at such a later date as the DPs shall request.

Sectoral or Cross-Sectoral RegulatoryLnstitutionalActionslBudgetary or Other Resource Allocations.
The Borrower shall: (a) formulate, by June 30 2004, common learning outcomes standards for school
performance and distribute them widely within MoPME and MOE, including field offices with
responsibility for registeringand monitoring primary schools and to the public; (b) establish a Quality
Standards Task Force to monitor Primary School Quality Levels (PSQL); (c) implement an approved
time-bound actionplanbased on findings and recommendations o f a comprehensive Organizational
Analysis o f MoPME ,DPE, NAPE, NCTB and other educational institutions; (d) within six months from
Effectiveness, take measuresto set up a National Assessment Cell (NAC) to manage andor carry out, inter
alia, annual sample-based national assessments o f Classes 3 and 5 students; and (e) establish, within three
months o f Effectiveness, inconsultation with relevant ministries and DPs, a Task Force to devise strategies
to mainstream special needs children into primary schools; (f) provide adequate annual budget allocation to
PEDPII, includingGOB counterpart funding.

Implementation. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, three months before the annual review mission, an
annual operation plan, acceptable to DPs, based on local level inputs and inaccordance with the three-year
implementationplan; (b) approve, within six months o f Effectiveness, a policy and time-bound action plan
to establish a primary education cadre, to be fully implementedby December 31, 2005; (c) fill all vacant
professional positions in DPE, NAPE and NCTB by mid-termreview; and (d) agree with DPs, within three
months o f Effectiveness, on selection criteria for new schools and other facilities; and (e) agree with DPs on
selection criteria for participation in special needs programs, and inoverseas andnational training
programs.

Environment and Social Covenants. The Borrower shall: (a) take all such actions as shall be necessary
to apply and cause to be applied: (i)   the Environmental Management Plan; and(ii) for Expandingthe
                                                                                       Plan
Primary Education o f Tribal Children; and (b) ensure that no involuntary resettlement is triggeredas a
result of construction o f classrooms, schools or other educational institutions.

Construction and Maintenance. The Borrower shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to
encourage community and SMC involvement in school and classroom construction.

ADB Covenants:



                                                      - 32 -

Program Management The Borrower shall cause DPE to carry out program implementation activities in
accordance with the operational plan approved by the annual review mission.

Sectoral or Cross-SectoralRegulatoty/Institutional Action. Within six months from Effectiveness, the
Borrower shall take measuresto make NAPE autonomous.

Implementation. The Borrower shall (a) Establish, within six months o f Effectiveness, a full-fledged
Financial Management Unit,with a finalized Financial Management Manual on PEDPII financial
management policies andprocedures; (b) prepare, by December 31,2004, a HumanResource Development
and Management Strategy and Plan for primary education, including measuresto recruit female teachers
such that by the end o f PEDPIIthe ratio o f female teachers would have reached 60%; and (c) develop and
introduce, by June 30, 2004, improved initial andin-service teacher education programs.

Other Agreementshnderstanding with DPs and ADB:

Since ADB, as lead agency, would undertake day-to-day supervision on behalf o f IDA, IDA has signed a
Memorandum o f Understanding with the ADB on November 20,2003 (see Annex 11). Moreover, PEDPII
Development Partners, including IDA have signed a Code of Conduct, which outlines a modus operandi
for DPs' approach to PEDPII (see also Annex 11).

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o f project implementation.
    1.b) Not applicable.

[XI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.
    3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
0 4. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (Section G):

Re: Sub-section H.3 above: As part ofharmonization of procedures, Annual Operational Plans were
       appraised in lieu o f a Project Implementation Plan

I. Compliance with Bank Policies

IZ 1.Thisprojectcomplies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
0 2.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.




T6am Leader       'J                       Sector ManagerlDirector                Country Director




                                                    - 33 -

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                        BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II
                                                                D

sector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:
To raise the levels o f skills  Increase inprimary              MoPMEiEMIS data             Broad-based improvements in
indknowledge inthe general completion rate (Grade 5)                                        the knowledge and skills o f
iopulation.                     from 68 percent in 2002 to 80 Monitoring Reports            the population o f Bangladesh
                                percent in 2009                                             would contribute to increased
                                                                                            productivity and the
                                                                                            reduction o fpoverty.



Voject Development              Outcome I Impact                Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
lbjective:                      Indicators:
zonsolidate gains in            Increase inpublic expenditure MoPMEiEMIS data               Improving access to quality
:ducational access and equity, on primary education to at                                   primary education will lead to
indsupport GOB'Sefforts to      least 2.8 percent o f GNP by    Monitoring reports          increasedproductivity, and
mprove educational quality      2009                                                        therefore increased income,
                                                                Evaluation studies          and ultimately to a reduction
                                                                                            inpoverty.


                                Increase in Primary             MoPME budgets               Improvingthe quality o f
                                expenditure per pupil over                                  education will also lead to
                                GNP per head from 8.2           Ministry o f Finance        improvements inhealth,
                                percent in 2002 to 10 percent                               fertility, and income
                                in2009                                                      distribution, which in turn
                                                                                            contribute to poverty
                                                                                            reduction.

                                Increase in gross enrollment    Regular normative           Continued highGOB
                                ratio (GER) from 97.5 percent assessments                   commitment to quality
                                in2002 to 107 percent in                                    primary education
                                2009

                                Increase in student             National assessments        Improved implementation
                                completion rate (Grade 5)                                   capacity o f MoPME/DPE, and
                                from 68 percent in 2002 to 80                               at district and upazila levels
                                percent in 2009

                                Decrease in repetition rates in Development partner studies
                                all grades by 40 percent in
                                2009 as compared with 2002

                                Decrease in student school      Academic supervision records
                                absenteeism from (estimated)
                                40 percent in 2002 to 20        MoPMEiEMIS
                                percent in 2009; and girls'
                                absenteeism not to be higher
                                than that o f boys

                                Increase in students'


                                                           - 34-

                                competency-based learning
                                 achievements by 50 percent by
                                2009 as against the National
                                Assessment results in 2001
                                (Grade 3 and 5)

                                Increase in the proportion o f
                                Class V students entering for
                                Primary Scholarship              IloPMEIEMIS
                                Examination (PSE) from 20
                                percent in 2002 to 50% by
                                2009

                                Increase inthe proportion o f
                                students attaining the pass      4oPMEIEMIS
                                level in the PSE from 5
                                percent in 2002 to 40 percent
                                by 2009

                                At least 70 percent o f schools  4oPMEIEMIS
                                nationally will meet PSQL
                                standards and procedures by
                                2009
Iutput from each                Output Indicators:               'roject reports:         :fromOutputs to Objective)
iomponent:
 . Improved organizational      3rganizational and               lanagement audit report  30B allocates resources for a
 ndinstitutional capacity o f   management assessment                                     justainable operation for an
LOPME, DPE, and primary         results available by six         .4onitoring reports      .mproved primary education
:ducation support institutions. months after PCU i s inplace                              system as required and on
                                                                 dission reports          time
                                Organizational reform
                                implemented and all              iieldlevel reports       GOB provides adequate
                               vacantlidentified posts at all                             political support for
                                levels filled on a continuing    KTB, DPE, CPIrecords     organizational, administrative
                               basis by December 2009                                     and budgetary consequences
                                                                                          in implementing PEDPII

                               Increase innumber of filled
                               teacher posts by 10,000 in                                 All eligible posts will be
                               2004, and by 15,000                                        under the revenue budget by
                               thereafter                                                 2007


                               PCU in place and operational                               Government and development
                                                                                          partners can agree on
                                                                                          common coordination
                               An effective EMIS system is                                principles and implementatior
                               put in place and improved                                  mechanisms and adhere to
                               skills in evidence-based                                   agreed procedures
                               decision making are
                               demonstrated by critical                                   Effective Monitoring and
                               analyses o f annual primary                                Evaluation system established
                               education statistical reports.                             and feedback mechanism into
                                                                                          policy making
                               30 percent o f SMC trained



                                                           - 35 -

!. Improvedteaching and      Starting 2005, all textbooks      Regular National Assessment reachers and educationalists
earning                      and teaching and learning         programs                    vi11apply competency-based
                             materials are available to the                                md child-centered education
                             students by the first week o f    MoPMEIBANBEIS data          jrinciples
                             the school year
                                                               Scholarship exam result     reachers will be released from
                             No. o f students taking part in sheets                        ion-school and
                             the Primary Scholarship                                       ion-teaching-related official
                             Examination                       Monitoring reports          hties

                             No. o f teachers trained          Sample site inspections     3 0 B enables adequate
                                                                                           :upport (organizational,
                             Increased contact hours                                       idministrative and budgetary)
                                                                                           or appropriate functioning o f
                                                                                           :ducational institutions



I. Improvement and           All new and improved              Progress reports            Selected construction
:xpansion o f physical and   physical and material                                         :ompanies and suppliers
naterial infrastructure o f  infrastructure conform to         Monitoring reports          itrictly adhere to established
rimary schools and primary   PSQL standards                                                milding and equipment
:ducation development and                                      Construction documents      itandards and external
raining institutions         All physical facilities and                                   upervision i s carried out
                             essential services will be        Completion reports          :ffectively
                             maintained and functioning at
                             an established level starting      Site verification          3MCs and communities
                             2004                                                          ictively participate in school
                                                               Inspection reports          naintenance and managemenl
                                                                                           ictivities




                             Physical and material
                             infrastructure extension and
                             improvement o f Primary
                             Education Institutions
                             (NAPE, NCTB, PTIs and
                             DPE's divisional district and
                             upazila levels are completed
                             by end o f 2006

1. Improved support measures Net enrollment ratio on the       ,Jlonitoring reports        Shifts inattitudes towards
o ensure equitable access to basis o f ethnicity, location,                                ;upport to marginalized
luality schooling.           gender show no disparity by       MoPMEIBANBEIS data          youps and disadvantaged
                             2009                                                          ;tudents
                                                               Evaluation reports
                             Decrease in existing disparity                                'rograms and measures o f




                                                           - 36 -

                          ates in enrollmentsbetween     IPE records and reports     pecial needs educationare
                          dentified districts by 10                                  .ppreciatedandutilizedby the
                          )ercentin 2009                 3BSiPlanningCommission      ntendedbeneficiaries

                          i t least 10percentprimary                                 nclusive educationprograms
                          chools adopt explicit                                      vi11receivesupport inthe
                          ;trategies and actions to                                  :ommunity,by parents and
                          xovide inclusive educationby                               he schools
                          !005, and 20 percentby 2009
                                                                                     jtipends programis well-
                          Zhildren with disabilities are                             argeted
                          dentified by 2006 at the latest
                          nselecteddistricts

                          \To. of students receiving
                          itipendsannually accordingto
                          stablished criteria

                          'rofessional support for
                          nclusive educationavailable
                          nidentified districtsby 2006
                          it the latest

                          )ut of schooltribal children
                          ,educed30 percent by 2006
                          ind 60 percentby completion
                          ifthe program(2009)

                          10 percenttribal children pass
                          ;tandardtest by 2006 and60
                          jercent by 2009



Project Components I      nputs: (budget for each        Project reports:            :fromComponents to
Sub-components:           :omponent)                                                 3utputs)
Component 1: Quality      JS$ 78.0 million               For all components:         ?or all components:
Improvementthrough
OrganizationalDevelopment                                4nnual ProgramProgress      MoPME commitmentto
and Capacity Building                                    Reports                     ?EDPI1remainsstrong and
(including Program                                                                   30B counterparthnds are
Management and Monitoring                                SupervisionMission          idequateandtimely
andEvaluation)                                           2bservation and reports
                                                                                     Programmanagementi s
                                                         Sovernment and Independent :ffective
                                                         :valuation of progress (at
                                                         mid-termreview)             Smooth coordination
                                                                                     imongiwith development
                                                                                     3artnersiGOB



Component 2. Quality      JS$510.8 million
Improvementin Schools and
Classrooms



                                                     - 37-

Component3. Quality
Improvementthrough         US$335.4 million
InfrastructureDevelopment.

Component 4. Improvingand US$ 890.9 million
SupportingEquitableAccess
to QualitySchooling




                                             -38-

          PEDPII POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMMATRIX
                  -                                                                                  Appendix 1to Annex 1

,Institutionalize       Relationship to             PEDP IIActivity            AssurancesMilestones              'omments
)rogram Approach         Quality Improvement
.1.ProgramApproach Sustainablequality               PEDP I1providesfor         PEDP I1will be implemented        `he DPEPEDP I1management
                        improvement                 implementationthrough      throughDPEline functions anc upport function andtechnical
                        requiresunified             DPEandrelatedprimary       relatedprimary education          upport for the line directorswill
                        management,line of          educationagencies;         agencies. All future              e establishedandadequately
                        authority, communication reinforcedby institutional internationaldonor resources         taffed in a manner consistent
                         andaccountability from     analysesto identify        benefitingGPS, RNGPS,             iith the institutionalassessment.
                         DPEto field and school. weaknesses,re-structuring Community and Satellite               see IV.4)
                         Capacity is to be          as needed, andcapacity      schools wouldbe integrated
                         strengthenedby             building to strengthen     within this PEDP I1framework
                         govemment                  technical andmanagement
                        implementationof            capacity.
                        developmentprograms,                                   DetailedFirst Year
                        not throughPIUs (project                               ImplementationPlanwas made
                        structure)bypassing                                    available during appraisal.
                        regularmanagement
                         structure.
I.Education Quality and Relationship to             PEDP II Activity           Assurances/ Milestones            :omments
lquity                   Quality Improvement
1.1CommonLearning Commonlearning                    Minimum standardsfor        Commonlearningstandards          'here are no new Government
)utcomes For All Types outcomesensure quality       schoolperformancewill be will be formulated andwidely        chools beingestablished. To
A Primary level          educationin all types of   developedfor formal         distributedwithin MOPME          chieveEFA goal ofuniversal
nstitutions             primary schools including primary education.            andMOE, includingfield           lrimary educationGOB must
                        proprietary, Non-formal                                 officesthat haveresponsibility .ependon other types of schools.
                         andMadrassas; as well as                               for registeringandmonitoring
                         GPS andRNGPS.                                          primary schools by June 2004. ;PS are better resourcedand
                                                                                                                 :achers better paidthan most
                        All primary level students                              The standards will also be       ither schools. Common
                         are eligible to enter lower                            made public through the news tandards may encourage
                         secondary andall schools                               media.                           ommunity and school operators
                         shouldhave grade five                                                                   D improveconditions
                         level standards to permit
                         continuation.

1.2 Equitable AllocationThe  Government's           PEDPI1includes several      The first year implementation itatedpolicy of Governmentin

IfResourcesto           commitment to EFA           interventionsfor achieving planwill give priority to         'rimary Education(Compulsory)
ndigenous,Remote,        asserts `That no child i s UniversalPrimary            disadvantaged, poorer areas foi kt, 1990 andis also GOB
ipecialNeeds and        deprivedof educationfor Education                       all capacitybuilding activities, dillennium DevelopmentGoal
'oorest Student Groups lack of teacher, learning                                includingcivil works.
includes `baby classes') materialsandadequate       InnovationGrant Fundscan                                     :ommunity based `Baby classes'
                         space.',  ...andthat...    be usedto support activitiesWithin twelve monthsof           vith cognitiveskills developmen
                                                    initiatedby communities or followingPEDPI1                   irogramsimproveprimaryschoo
                          `No child will be         unionparishads.             implementationthe                earning, especially for children
                         subjectedto disparities of communityinitiated          Governmentwill develop a         rompoor andilliterate families.
                         access.. ."                activities.                 Gender Action Plan as well as
                                                                                a Vulnerable GroupsAction
                                                                                PlanThese plansto be fully
                                                                                implementedby mid-term
                                                                                review.




                                                                     - 39 -

7. Governance       Relationship to            PEDPZZ Activity             lssurances/ Milestones            :omments
                    Quality Improvement
N.1EstablishMinimumPSQL is pro-poor,           PSQL to be usedto           iQualityStandardsTask             olicies that Improve quality and
tandardfor Primary  ensuring that children     provide a realistic and     ;orce (QSTF) that will monitoi ficiency o f primary school
chool Quality Level from economically          affordable definition o f   'SQL to be establishedwithin      ducation are a necessary
?SQL)               impoverished areas and     school quality that will    hree months following             ondition for EFA and the Fast
                    communities have access optimize resources to          ffectiveness.                     'rack Initiative (FTI).
                    to a minimumstandard o f improve the learning
                    quality education.         conditions for the greatest iudit o f PSQL components to
                                               number o f children.        ie included as part o f the
                    Minimumstandards                                       3aseline Survey o f all schools
                    provide a basis for        PSQL i s basis for internal ndcompletedwithin six
                    monitoring and             monitoring at local level   nonths o f effectiveness.
                    accountability o f the     and included in SMC
                    Primary Education system.training andupazila
                                               training for school
                                               supervision. UEO/AUEO
                                               assessment i s part o f
                                               internal M&E.
LI.2 Monitoringof   Effective monitoring       Strengthen DPE's capacity :ormpt Practices: MOPME to MOPME supportedby external
ducation System     ensures objective,         to provide monitoring for   irepare an action plan for      M&E should proactively address
erformance          transparent tracking and   quality educationby         ddressing fiscal and            issueso f fiscal and other forms of
                    reporting o f education    establishing an M&E         upervisory irregularities in the corruption and political
                    investment activities to   scheme linking schools,     irimary education system by     interference that internal M&E
                    provide MOPME and          Upazila and District        line months after                cannot address.
                    DPE with timely            Offices to its EMIS and     ffectiveness.
                    information for efficient  M&E Divisions inthe                                          Agreed key Program targets
                    planning and management collection, processingand      Development by GOB o f an        reached, as shown by the relevanl
                    of primary education. It analysis o f PEDP I1data on d&E scheme, which should           Key PerformanceIndicators will
                    also strengthens           the Key Performance         nclude a public expenditure     be presented inthe Program
                    accountability and         Indicators (KPIs).          racking system within six        status semi-annual and
                    professionalism o fprimary                             nonths o f effectiveness.        supervision reports.
                    education institutions and Develop and implement an
                    enhances objectivity and external M&E scheme to        'rogram status report prepared Need to identify institutionalbast
                    credibility o f MOPME      objectively verify the      iy DPE M&EDivision for           for PEDP I1External M&E and
                    and DPE.                   monitoring and evaluation   'EDP I1semi-annual               agree on terms o f reference.
                                               o f PEDP 11, including
                    An M&Estatus report for independent Third Party
                    semi-annual supervision, Program audits and
                    preparedby M&E             Formative Research, and
                    Division o f DPE, will     eventually the whole
                    serve as input to GOB     primary education
                    preparation o f Annual     sub-sector.
                    Operations Plan to be
                    considered during annual
                    supervision mission, thus
                    ensuring that planning i s
                    based on evaluative
                    inputs.
Z.3 Transparent     Ensuresthat resources are Technical support and othe 'ransform existing financial       l'he new GOB procurement rules
inancialand         used efficiently ina      resources are available in   nanagement function in DPE       will be applied in PEDP 11.
rocurement          transparent and           PEDP I1to assist             nto a full capacity Financial    The DPE procurement function
Ianagement          accountable manner and    Government develop a         Aanagement Unit within six       needs to be adequately staffed
                    for the purpose intended  financial management and     ionths o f effectiveness.        and strengthened.
                                              procurement framework fox ;OB will prepare a PEDP I1
                                              the program as well as       'MManualoutlining program Periodic sample surveys should
                                              building financial           pecific FMpolicy and            be undertaken to identify the
                                              management and               rocedures within six months factors that determine the



                                                                 - 40 -

                                                   procurementcapacity at all of effectiveness.This manual     ffective use of public andprivatc
                                                   Ilevels.                  Iwouldserve as a reference       inds.
                                                                              manual for Training.
 V. Primary Education    Relationship to           PEDPZZ Activity           Assurances/ Milestones            'omments
 prganization & Structure Quality Improvement
 V.l Primary Education   A professionalPrimary      A Primary EducationCadre Formal proposalwith               'urrentlydecisionsconcerning
 :adre                   education cadre provides is a majortheme Ivithin the supportingdocumentationwill      ansfer o f key personnelinDPE
                         necessary status to the    PEDP I1 macro plan.       be submittedto highest le\.el of re controlledby MOE.
                         sub-sectorand to teachers                            Governmentby July 2003.
                         andofficersin the Cadre                              Governmentto approve cadre       IOPME can initiate the process
                         thereby attracting and                               and time bound                   ut other ministriesneedto
                         retaininghighcaliber                                 implementationplan within six ipport and approve this
                         personnel.                                           monthsof effectiveness           iitiative.

                        I                          I                         I
 V.2 HumanResource /Continuityinjobs and           IExtensivetechnical supportlAHuman Resource                 he Fact FindingMission
 levelopment and         clear criteriafor          andtrainingresources     Development and Management :commended that those who
 lanagement Strategy     processingtransfers,      includedinPEDPI1          Stratesy and Plan for Primary    :ceive training shouldremainin
 nd Plan(HRDM)           recruitment, deployment,                             Educationis needed.              ost for at three years before
                         promotionand extended PEDPI1Action: HR               Developmentof the plan will      eing transferred.
                         leave (vacancies)and      ManagementPlan andits be an iterativeprocess linked
                         disciplinaryactions i s an implementationwould be to progress made andaction          lo overseas training will be
                         essentialpart of human    part of the processof      taken inrespectof               uthorizeduntil there is
                         resourcemanagement.        establishingPrimary       Organization, Managementanc greementontransfer of
                                                    EducationCadre            InstitutionalAnalyses andthe     ersonnel trainedwith PEDP I1
                         Inconsistenciesand                                   introductionof aprimary          :sources.
                         political or personal                                educationcadre. A first phase
                         interferencehavebeen                                 o f HRD&M planwill be
                         identified as a serious                              preparedand approvedwithin
                         obstacleto quality                                   one year of effectiveness.
                         improvement.
                                                                              Governmentwill not transfer
                                                                              staff within a periodof three
                                                                              years ofpostingor three years
                                                                              o f receivingPEDP I1assisted
                                                                              training.


 V.3 FillStaffVacancies The first step incapacity PEDP I1is to be             Within three monthsof Loan       'heprocess of filling vacancies i
 nd Sanction             building is filling vacant implementedby the DPE     Effectiveness,the responsible    omplex andlengthy. A reason
 bevelopmentPosts        posts and sanctioning      andrelatedagencies. Full ministrieswill have approved      iven for vacancies is that there
 icludedinPEDP Iand PEDP Iposts that are to         staffingis necessary.     simplifiedproceduresfor          re not enoughqualifiedpersons
 'EDPI1                  expire with completionof                             filling ofvacancies for DPEO, Ifillposts by promotion. GOB
                         PEDP Iactivities.                                    ADPEO, UEO, AUEO and            lay consider waivingthe time
                                                                              URCs. All vacancies at distric :quirement andpromotingbasec
                         SanctioningPEDPI1                                    andupazilalevel to be filled     nmerit.
                         developmentposts on a                                within twelvemonthsof            L tleast 30% of posts to be filled
                         phasedbasis (20% per                                 effectiveness.                   y qualifiedwomen.
                         year beginningyear 2 )
                         will encouragehigh
                         caliber qualified
                         candidates to apply.


ZV. Primary Education    Relationship to           PEDP ZZActivity           Assurances/ Milestones           Comments
Organization &           Quality Improvement
Structure (font.)
IV.4 Institutional       Objectivei s to improve   PEDPI1providesresources The Government's                   No funds for new capacity
Assessmentand            qualityandefficiencyof to support an Institutional organizationalassessment          building initiatives for DPE,
Restructuring            primary educationthrough assessment for NAPE,        working groups to bemobilizedNAPEandNCTB would be
                         strengthenedplanning,     NCTB, PTIandDPE,           by Secretary MOPEwithin one releaseduntil a time-bound



                                                                    -41 -

                         implementation and         including field offices, and month o f effectiveness.       Action Plan for restructuring has
                         monitoring functions.      implementation o f agreed                                  been approved by the relevant
                                                    reforms and improvements Reports, including time-bound Ministriesand development
                                                    inthe institutions focusing implementation plan, to be     partners. The exceptions are
                                                    on the provision o f quality completed within six months of teacher and SMC training and
                                                    primary education; as well contracting technical assistance inception relevant capacity
                                                    as resources to modernize and no later than nine months building for DPE.
                                                    the institutions, including  following effectiveness.
                                                    adequate facilities for
                                                    female officers and staff.
IV.5 Decentralization:   Increasedauthority and     PEDP I1includes resources Key organizational functions to Government will address the
Devolution of authority  accountability, and        and technical support to    be devolveddecentralized to     issue o f `negative' external
to school (SMC), Upazila enhanced resources at      schools, UEOs, and DPEOs School, Upazila, and District      intervention inconduct o f work a
and District Level       school level i s essential to enable them to manage with authority, responsibility     upazila level.
                         for improved classroom     devolved authority,          and accountability to be
                        teaching and learning       responsibility, and          defined within six months o f  The proposed Four Person
                        quality. Adequate support finances.                      effectiveness.                 Technical Assistance teams or
                        for improving quality and                                                               equivalent support needs to be
                        for performance                                          School Learning Improvement available at District level to assis
                        monitoring cannot be                                     Plans (SLIPS) developed with upazila and schools.
                        provided from a remote                                   AUEOs' assistance for at least
                                                                                 20% o f schools by December    School improvement funds cannc
                                                                                 2004 and 100%by MTR.           be released to schools that have
                                                                                                                not completed a SMCiParent
                                                                                 Upazila Primary Education      approved SLIP.
                                                                                 Plans (UPEP) approved in 20%
                                                                                 o f Upazilas by December 2004
                                                                                 and 100% bv MTR.
IV.6 Status of the      NAPE i s the institution    PEDP I1includes resources Decision o f GOB concerning       Consideration o f the Autonomy
National Academy for     charged with quality in    and technical support to    NAPE autonomy to be             o fNAPE was part o fNORAD
Primary Education       PTIs and Upazila training enable NAPE to become an completed by June 2004               project and was agreedto by
(NAPE) as an             and indirectly the quality autonomous apex                                             GOB in 1997. TRB not include1
Autonomous Apex         o f teaching and learning ineducational institution with This report will also include  inPCP.
Agency for Quality       schools.                   a clear Mission Statement decision concerning Teacher
Standards                                           and goals.                   Registration Board(TRB) with Any assessment o f NAPE will
                        Mechanisms such as                                       consideration o f TRB          also address the question o f
                         `Teacher Registration      NAPE buildings will be       developments inMOE.            increased authority for PTI
                        Board' will help ensure     renovated and extended                                      superintendents.
                        qualifications o f teachers with upgraded facilities.
                        inclassrooms.


ZV. Primary Education   Relationship to             PEDP I1Activity             Assurances/ Milestones          Comments
Organization &          Quality Improvement
Structure (Cont.)
IV.7 NCTB               A more coherent structure PEDP I1provides support        Institutional analysis, with   NCTB i s a major publishing
Restructuring           for NCTB will lead to       for institutional assessment recommendations and            house - the largest in
                        improvements in             o fNCTB to increase focus time-bound implementation         Bangladesh. Substantial
                        curriculum, textbook        on primary education,       plan and agreement on           investment needs to made in
                        content and textbook        ensure linkages between     recommendations between         upgrading the skills o f its staff
                        production.                 primary and secondary        MOPME and MOE to be            and inprovidingthem with the
                                                    curriculum and improve       completed six months           most modem equipment and
                                                    textbook quality; as well as following contracting o f      facilities.
                                                    capacity building following technical assistance but no
                                                    restructuring.              later than nine months          There should be clear separation
                                                                                 following effectiveness.       o f functions between curriculum
                                                                                                                and textbook production.
VStrengthening the      Relationship to             PEDP I1Activity             AssurancesMilestones            Comments
Teacher Corps           Quality Improvement
V1. Teacher             A full program o finitial   Both initial teacher        Teacher in-service education    Recommendation: N o untrained



                                                                       - 42 -

Qualificationsand     teacher education and       education and regular
Professional          in-service professional     periods of in-service
Development           development for teachers teacher training have been
                      and head teachers is        mandated for all teachers ir
                      crucial for improving the the PEDP 11.
                      quality o f teaching and
                      learning, together with
                      support and supervision.

                                                                               nd DPE) by one month prior
                                                                                  first annual review.
V.2 Primary Level     Improvement o f teacher     A review of the existing      Vithin six months ofLoan       Preference to be given to primary
Teacher Pay, Merit    salaries and the provision salary structure for primary ,ffectiveness, the Government school teachers with appropriate
Based Incentives,     o f some form o f incentives teachers will be carried out rill modify selection criteria qualifications during direct
Promotion             i s an important condition and a revisedbasic salary      ir AUEO and URCpositions recruitment for AUEO
Opportunities         for the quality o f teaching scale implemented for all    1include "experience in        positions.
                      in schools.                 primary teachers, with        rimary education teaching".
                                                  appropriate allowances to    iefore the first annual
                                                                                upervision mission, the
                                                                                iovernment will have prepared
                                                                                 time-bound Action Plan,
                                                                                :garding the improvement o f
                                                                                le status o f teachers, career
                                                                                aths, and incentives to be
                                                                                icluded inthe draft Human
                                                                                'esourceDevelopment and
                                                                                lanagement Strategy and Plan
                                                                                ,V.2 above).
VI: Curriculum,       Relationship to             PEDP ZZActivity               IssurancesMilestones           Comments
Assessment, and        Quality Improvement
Textbook Reform
VI.1 Curriculum       Ensuresa continuum           Support for primary school `rimary and secondary            Ensuring curriculum continuity
Relevancefor Primary between primary and           curriculum and               urriculum wings to meet and betweenprimary and secondary
Level and Relationship secondary education         instructional materials      nsure continuity o fprimary    education necessarypart o f
to Lower Secondary                                 development; and relevant   :vel and lower secondary        NCTB organizational assessment
                                                   capacity building i s        urriculum and develop plan to
                                                   included in PEDP 11.         nsurecontinuity by December
                                                                                004.
VI.2 National         Provides critical evidence PEDP I1provides support        i National Assessment Center The issue o fNA, who should be
Assessment            o fthe efficacy o f PEDP I1 for conducting sample         NAC) to be establishedwithinresponsible, and how frequently :
                      interventions to improve    basedNational                 ix months o f contracting      should conductedbe needs to be
                      education quality and        Assessments and              :chnical support but no later  discussed at MOPME policy and
                      raise student achievement disseminating results.         ian nine months following       planning levels and with other
                                                                                ffectiveness.                  concerned ministries. Several
                                                                                                               prior NA studies are available to
                                                                                JAC will have clearly          MOPME.
                                                                               rticulated responsibility to
                                                                                any out the NA at least once A Biennial curriculum and
                                                                                very two years covering a      instructional materials review
                                                                               ample o f Class 3 and 5         should be carried out with NCTE
                                                                                tudents. Assessment may        curriculum wing.
                                                                                iclude formative evaluation at
                                                                                horter intervals.




                                                                    - 43 -

I                    /supervision and classroom1                           I                               I
                     teachingilearning.
VI. 3 Supplemental   Augment the basic tools   Supplementary readers to     First cumculum documents        The selection and procurement
ReadingMaterials     for learning and, in      be available in all GPS,     and training guides distributed processes for these readers will
(SRMs) and Learning  particular, literacy.     RNGPSand Community           to teachers for school year     be critical. It is essential that
Aids to IncludeLocal                           Schools.                     2004.                           practicing primary school
Choice.              Local choice helps ensure                                                              teachers are involvedin
                     relevance anduse o f      Recommendation i s that      Transparent procedures for      establishing the evaluation
                     materials by students and more discretion be given to implementing `local choice'      criteria to be usedin choosing tht
                     teachers.                 schools and no less than     option to be available for      SRMsandincarrying out the
                                               30% o f the funding set      implementation by first annual evaluation itself.
                                               aside for local purchase o f supervision mission.
                                               reading and learning
                                               materials from the open




                                                                 - 44 -

                                  Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                    BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II
ProgramObjectives


PEDP 11's objectives are to improve quality, equitable access, and efficiency inprimary education through
a sub-sector program approach. Specifically, the program will assist in: (a) improving the quality o f
teaching and learning, and raise student achievement; (b) increasing access to schooling for the
disadvantaged; and (c) strengtheningplanning and management o fprimary education, including
establishing a national monitoring and evaluation system for primary education. The objectives are in
accordancewith the Government o f Bangladesh's (GOB)National Action Plan for Education for All
(EFA), the Poverty Reduction Strategy as expressedinthe InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the
MillenniumDevelopment Goals, the PEDP I1MacroPlanand other Policy commitments. The
govemment's commitment to providinggood quality and equitable primary education is reflectedinit's
commitment o f about $1.2 billion over the duration o f PEDP 11,out o f which $864 million will go to
financing stipends for the poorest children. The four Program components are as follows: Component 1-
Quality Improvement through OrganizationalDevelopment and Capacity Building;Component 2 -Quality
Improvement in Schools and Classrooms; Component 3         - QualityImprovement through Infrastructure
Development; and Component 4 Improving and Supporting Equitable Access to Quality Schooling.
                                    -
MoPME and DPE will be responsible for overall program management, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. Policies and activities that support these components cover both government and
non-government schools. The policies are described indetail inAnnex 1, Appendix 1, andthe four
components are described below. It shouldbe notedthat all physical facilities for the whole program have
beenincorporatedunder Component 3 (Infrastructure Development). The program will cover about 18
million children enrolled inGovernment Primary, Registered Non-Government Primary, and Community
schools. Although at present it i s plannedthat the most direct interventions will be introduced in
Government Primary and RegisteredNon-Government Primary Schools, there will be interventions which
will impact on children inall schools.

The PEDP I1program of interventionswill be integrated within the Ministryof Primary and Mass
Education's (MOPME) and its Directorate of Primary Education's (DPE) organizational and operational
systems, All programs and activities supported by the 11 Development Partners will be coordinated and
integrated within these systems.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$78.00 million
                       -

Component1 Quality ImprovementthroughOrganizationalDevelopmentand CapacityBuilding
               -
(including ProgramManagement and Monitoringand Evaluation). This component comprises three
subcomponents, aimed at supporting investments which will result inimproved educational management
including good governance o f the primary education system, with a focus on increasing authority and
accountability at district, upazila, and school levels while addressing fiscal and supervisory irregularities in
the sub-sector.

Sub-component 1.1-Enhancing Capacity of MoPME and DPE

To enhancethe capacity o f both MoPME and DPE to manage and coordinate the primary education system



                                                     - 45 -

effectively, a comprehensive organizational review (complementing institutional analyses carried out during
preparation o f the Macro-Plan) would be undertaken within the first six months o f program implementation
to delineate roles and functions inprimary education policy-making, planningand financing, management,
system support, and monitoringat each level. Among the tasks to be carried out would be: (a) analysis o f
the fbnctions of existing divisionsiunits and re-definition of their roles, and assessment ofresource needs
(e.g. skills, budget, training andphysical facilities); (b) evaluation of the need to upgrade some units to
divisional level (e.g. the Educational Management Information System (EMIS) and the Financial
Management Unit (FMU))andor evaluation o f the needto establish new units; (c) strengthening o f the
Monitoringand Evaluation Division o f DPE, working with EMIS; (d) review o f the structure o f the
Training Division o f DPE and devise plans to give greater responsibility and leadership to this division in
implementinghead teacher training, teacher education, andteacher professional development, including
Primary Teacher Instructors; and (e) definition o f the functions and activities that would be
devolveddecentralizedto local levels. Draft Terms o f Reference for the organizational review have been
discussed and agreedwith MoPME. The process o f short-listing o f firms has begun.

As part o f institutional strengthening and subject to the recommendations of the organizational review,
the following actions wouldbe carried out:

            all essential vacant posts throughout the primary education systemwould be filled as soon as
            possible;

            a professional development program, including overseastraining, would be developed and
            implementedfor all DPE andrelevant MOPME personnel;

            a human resource management and development strategy for DPE would be developed by the end
            o f the first year o f PEDPII, to be implemented starting inthe secondyear; and the government
            would commit itself to maintain key trained staff for at least a three-year period;

            the Financial Management Unitwould be expanded to become the Finance and Procurement
            Division o f DPE; and

            Better incentives for all primary teaching staff would be developed by establishing a career path,
            including agreed criteria for selection, promotion and salary increment ,and instituting
            appropriate human resource management and development policies.

The program would finance technical assistance (both international and national), computer hardware and
software upgrading and expansion, electronic equipment, incremental staffing and training, rehabilitation o f
DPE offices, and operating expenses.

Sub-component 1.2 -Enhancing the Capacity of EMIS

The EMIS section will be developed as a separateunit,or division, within the DPE to strengthenits
information systems. Interventionswill include: (a) expanding its capacity and functions o f data collection,
management o f data and data analysis and extending these to District, Upazila and school levels to support
improved decision-making, monitoring and evaluation at central anddecentralized levels o f the system; (b)
networking with the Local Government EngineeringDepartment(LGED) to enable the use o f the
Geographic InformationSystem (GIS) databaseas part o f the EMIS; and (c) completion by LGED o f the
GIS inthe remaining 49 districts.



                                                       - 46 -

Sub-component 1.3 -EnhancingField Capacity at Divisional, District and Upazila Levels

This sub-component aims at strengthening the capacity of Districts andUpazilas to effectively coordinate,
implement andmonitor primary education field-level activities. Interventions include: (a) improve
planning at school and upazila levels; (b) improve school inspection, steering away from mere policing
toward usingeffective educational strategies for school improvement and development while strengthening
the roles of SMCs and PTAs, supporting theparticipation of women inthese community-based
organizations; (c) enhance the role o f Assistant Upazila EducationOfficers to improve academic
supervision and support teacher professional development; (d) review and assist Upazila Resource Centers
incarrying out their activities; (e) facilitate effective curriculum implementation; and (f)improve data
collection, monitoring and financial management at District and upazila levels.

To meet the above objectives, capacity at district level would be enhancedby establishing teams o f three
specialists, headedby the District Primary Education Officer (DPEO), who would work on (a) planning,
management and finance; (b) teacher training, curriculum implementation, learningmaterials development,
academic supervision and leaming assessment; (c) EMIS and monitoring and evaluation; and (d) special
needs education. It i s envisaged that infuture more and more specialists would come from the ranks o f
HeadTeachers and AUEOs with adequate female participation intraining programs.

The capacity of upazilas would be strengthenedby increasing the responsibilities and accountability o f
upazila officers to provide, after appropriate training, the necessaryguidance and professional support to
schools. Their responsibilities would include: (a) giving support to Head Teachers, SMCs and
communities in developing School Level Improvement Plans and inusing the proposed school support
funds and school-level M& E; (b) providing academic support and supervision to schools and teachers; (c)
implementinga supportive school inspectionsystem; (d) supporting sub-cluster training incoordination
with URCs, with the latter providing five-days of in-service training every two years to all teachers; and
(e) supporting the development o f Upazila Primary Education Plans.

AUEO-level capacity would be enhancedby the hiringo f an additional 1,000 AUEOs with provisions for
supporting infrastructure, staffing, and facilities. Regular training would be provided to AUEOs at district
level, focusing on: (a) acquiring comprehensive knowledge and understanding o f modemprimary
education practices, (b) school management, SMC support and community mobilization; and (c) an annual
training o f trainers course for AUEOs would be developed, so that they would be able to function
effectively as master trainers for sub-cluster and other in-service training programs.

Overall, program financing would support technical assistance, incremental staffing, training, provisiono f
physical facilities, office and education equipmentandvehicles (mostly motorcycles for AUEOs),
operations and maintenance, travel allowances, and communications.

Sub-component 1.4 Enhancing Organizational and Management Capacity at School Level
                        -

The programwould seek to enhance the roles and capacity o fAUEOs, HeadTeachers and teachers, School
Management Committees (SMCs) to operate effectively, together with the help o f Parent-Teacher
Associations and the community. Since frequent transfers have causedhuge inefficiencies inschool
organization and management at the local level, MoPME would implement a policy for limitingfrequent
transfers at the local level with at least three inpost for AUEOs, and inclusion inthe career structure of the
proposed primary education cadre. To enhance the role o f SMCs and make themmore accountable, the
existing training program would be carried out nationally, complemented by a newly institutionalized
regular training program. AUEOs would conduct the training program, focusing on the need for SMCs' to


                                                       - 47 -

buildstrong links with communities, with the following three modules: (a) SMC role and responsibilities in
school planning and development, and use and management of the School Support Fundfor minor repairs
and maintenance, and basic consumables; (b) preparation and implementation of the annual school
improvement plan; and (c) strengthening basic planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity at Division,
District, Upazila and school levels.

To ensure a balanced representation in SMC membership,procedures would be reviewed so that a
transparent process i s usedin appointing SMC members,and that women's participation are assured(30%
o f membership).

Program inputs for this sub-component would include national technical assistance, training, and training
materials.

Project Component 2 US$510.80 million
                       -

Component 2 -ImprovingQualityin Schools and Classrooms. The interventions proposedinthis
component represent the core quality inputs o f PEDP I1andprovide the framework for systemic and
institutional change. Overall, interventions are designedto ensure that program schools meet the agreed
primary school quality level (PQSL) criteria (see 2.1 below). Other interventions, linkingcapacity building
to program implementation, would include strengthening primary education apex institutions such as the
NationalAcademy o f Education (NAPE) and the NationalCurriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB),
support for Primary Training Institutes (PTIs) for initial teacher training and UpazilaResource Centers
(URCs) for in-service teacher training.

Sub-Component 2.1 -Improving the Learning Environment

This sub-component will focus on the important elements inimprovingprimary education through the
provision o f an adequate and conducive leaming environment. A key activity would be the settingup of a
task force composed o f MOPME, DPE and the Program Coordination Unit (PCU) officials and other
stakeholders, with the following objectives: (a) agree on the required Primary School Quality Standards
(PSQL) for physical facilities, classrooms, equipment, and age-appropriate, flexible and movable
furnishings, for every primary school; (b) assess the difference between existing facilities and the new
PSQL standards and set benchmarks for monitoring indicators; and (c) establish a national policy to bring
every primary school to par with PSQL standards and to implement a phased program to bringall program
schools to meet PSQL standards by 2009.

Expected changes include reducing, by 2009, the class size to 40 pupilsand the pupil-teacher ratio to 46:1,
while at the same time increasing pupil-teacher contact hours to aminimumo f 750 hours to meet average
intemational standards. This will entail a provision o f at least 3,000 new classrooms and an additional
35,000 qualified and trained primary school teachers (including a focus on recruiting female teachers).

Curriculum.The National Curriculum and Textbook Boardwill be restructured following a full
organizational review with the aim o f strengtheningit, making it a fully resourced and semi-autonomous
unit,with properly trained qualified personnel and with the authority to set objectives, develop and
implementbudgets, and recruit andmanage personnel. Trained staff inspecialist positions will be retained
for at least three years, ensuring that at least 50% o f the staff are outstanding and experience primary
school practitioners. There will also be a needto improve capacity to produce and distribute high quality
textbooks, teaching and leamingmaterials, etc. which support outcomes-based teaching and leaming.
NCTB will coordinate with NAPE on training programs, continuous assessments, and other pedagogical


                                                     - 48 -

strategies.

A Quality Improvement Cell will be established inNCTB for the primary curriculum unitto support the
initiatives described above including a review and restructuring o f the existing curriculum which would
include: (a) a revision o f existing competency-based tests; (b) textbooks, teachers guides and learning
materials which contain positive representations o f women and girls, tribal children, children with
disabilities and minority groups; (c) with NAPE, in-service programs designed to disseminate updated
assessmentstrategies and assessment plans to all teachers and Head Teachers; and (d) research, surveys
and impact studies, as part o f formative and summative evaluation strategies.

Textbooks. The program will develop strategies to improve the management, modalities andefficiency o f
textbook distribution and production to enable timely delivery o f better quality textbooks. The existing 50%
re-use policy will continue while ensuringthe availability o f texts to enable replacement o f lost and
damaged books. Program interventions include: (a) transfer o f responsibility for textbook distribution from
the Monitoringand Evaluation Division of DPE to its Divisionof Administration; (b) provision ofteaching
and learningmaterials including Supplementary Reading Materials and equipment; (c) provision o f
classroom storage facilities; and (d) supply of class- and subject-appropriate texts and teacher guides to all
teachers.

Sub-Component 2.2 -Improving the Quality of Initial and In-service Teacher Training and Support

This sub-component aims at improvinghuildingthe capacity of the main institutions that have
responsibility for initial and in-service teacher training: NAPE, PTIs, and URCs. At school level, the
Program will address leadership inimproving primary education through qualitatively strengthenedtraining
programskourses for teachers, trainers and head teachers ;better teaching quality inprimary schools
through teacher incentives, better recruitment policies; and better support to teachers for career
development.

Interventions designed for this sub-component include the following:

National Academy of Primary Education (NAPE). The autonomy o f NAPE hadbeen proposed under
PEDP Iand the fact that it was not accomplished has had noticeable effects on lack o f quality improvement
as hadbeenexpected. Under the Program, activities will include: (i)     establishing NAPE legally as an
autonomous institution (MOPME has already taken initial actions); (ii)    undertaking an institutional review;
(iii)preparinga mission statementwhich sets out and elaboratesNAPE'Smain goals and functions, viz.:
coordination and leadership inpolicy development for teacher education, training o f trainers, training o f
headteachers, curriculum development and innovation, and research relatedto teacher education; (iv)
implementingan agreedpolicy for staffrecruitment, development and training to provide leadership in
quality enhancement for each o f the main NAPE functions; (v) upgrading NAPE campus facilities and
resources for teaching and learning; (vi) establishing a Primary Teacher RegistrationBoard; and (vii)
establishing a NAPE Quality Improvement Cell to guide curriculum revision, development and assessment,
and for designingnew systemsandprograms for initial teacher training inPTIs.

Primary Teachers TrainingInstitute (PTI). As inthe case o f NAPE but with more oversight from the
Training Division and NAPE, PTIs require a reasonable level o f autonomy intaking management
decisions.It i s noted that JICA will provide parallel co-financing for capacity buildinghaining o f teacher
trainers for primary mathematics and science. Program interventions will include: (i)    implementing a plan
to address the chronic understaffing o f PTIs; (ii)working towards a single-shiftsystem; (iii)  continuing
with two-shift systemto train backlog of GPS teachers (estimated at 20,000) inthe first two years o fthe


                                                      - 49 -

Program; (iv) training 35,000 new teachers for GPS and RNGPS; (v) implementing special program in
Years 3,4 and 5 an intensive training program for untrained teachers inRNGPS and other schools; (vi)
upgrading physical and training facilities o f the 53 PTIs; (vii) developing a network o f teaching practice
schools, associatedwith each PTI; (viii) providing each PTI with a flexible budget to cover basic operating
costs and services; and (ix) implementing a program o f two-week training courses ineducational
management for newly appointed Head Teachers.

Initial Primary Teacher Training. This will include full-time initial training during a two-year cycle
through the Upazila Resource Centers (URCs) andor the PTIs as well as six sub-cluster training days per
year based on revisedand re-developed new modules, deliveredby AUEOs. Interventions include: (i)
reviewing the role and functions o f URCs; (ii)completing URC construction, furnishing and equipment
program in all Upazilas, based on the review o f URCs; (iii)   improving system for recruitment, training and
appointments o f URC instructors; (iv) piloting the provision o f computer and Internet resources for
improved communication for URCs; and (v) transferring URC funding to revenue resourcesby July 2009
to ensure sustainability.

Quality of Teachingin Primary Schools. Better recruitment practices, improved training programs, and
providingbetter incentives and support to teachers underpinProgram efforts. Interventionswill include: (i)
an improved recruitment process; (ii)    recruitment and training o f an additional 35,000 teachers for GPS
and RNGPS schools; (iii)    adjustment o f recruitment criteria to increase the proportion o f female teachers to
60% by 2009; (iv) improvedstatus and quality o f teachers by creating a systemo f RegisteredPrimary
Teachers; revisingCertificate o f Educationprogram and its becoming prerequisite for all GPS schools by
January 1,2006; phasing strategy for teacher registration using Bachelor o f Primary Education degree or
equivalent by 2015; and revisingbasic salary scale for primary and secondary teachers; (v) providing
incentives for teachers through professional development programs, further developing the `Excellent
Teacher Awards', and the establishment o f a Primary EducationCadre provide able teachers to move into
positions o f authority and leadership; (vi) support for schools by settingup a pool o f qualified teachers at
upazila level (equal to 2% o f upazila teaching staff) to substitute for teachers temporarily absent from
sanctioned posts; (vi) paying training stipendsto C-in-Ed trainees to cover basic costs o f living, books,
materials and accommodation; (vii) settingup a `Record o f Professional Development; for every primary
teacher; and (viii) providing grants for school-based teacher research and indigenous solutions, and
evaluation o f innovative teaching strategies andother interventions inthe classroom.

Head Teacher Preparation. To achieve and maintain the proposed quality standardsunder PEDPII, Head
Teachers will be trained in school management, teacher support and supervision, community mobilization
and participation, and inother areas necessary to facilitate and support quality teaching and leaming inall
grades. Support will be provided for improvement o f selection and promotion o f well-qualified candidates
for Head Teacher positions from the pool o f qualified primary school teachers. Interventions will include:
(i) establishing policy for selection, training and promotionof Head Teachers; (ii)    providing at least ten
days o f initial Head Teacher training, on appointment, ineducational management and supervision to be
followed up by regular in-service training and professionaldevelopment programs; and (iii)       ensuringthat
training programs include modules on preparation o f the School Level Improvement Program, the
administration o f School Support Funds, andthe maintaining o f school budgetsand accounts.

Sub-Component 2.3 -Increasing Community Awareness

Improving quality standards inprimary schools needs greater community participation and support to
education activities. For this purpose: (a) public awareness campaigns will be designed and implemented
to increase community awareness and participation, includingparents, SMCs and Parent-Teacher


                                                      - 50 -

Associations; (b) the role o f SMCs will be reviewedand enhancedto enable them: (i) assist in
                                                                                         to
overcoming teacher absenteeism, tardiness, and early departure from duty; (ii) be responsible for
                                                                                  to
authorizationo f final payments to buildingcontractors to ensure proper use o f funds; and (iii) to undergo a
regular training program; (c) community participation will be increased by encouraging parents to
participate inschool management, to sendtheir children to school regularly,and to help maintain and
protect the school; and (d) schools in selectedupazilas would be eligible for community-based construction
according to LGED plans and specifications, with technical assistance andbuildingsupervision; and (e)
annual `School Support Funds' will be provided to SMCs at the rate o f Tk. 10,000 per school, to cover the
cost o f consumable supplies   .

Parallel co-financing will be provided by UNICEF/AUSAID for this sub-component.

Project Component 3 US$ 335.40 million
                        -

Component3 -ImprovingInfrastructure. This component consists of a summary of all physical
facilities requirementsunder the other components andincludes support for improving existing and
providingnew infrastructure, facilities, furnishings and equipment as necessaryin Government education
offices, PTIs, URCs, and schools. The main objective i s to provide adequate facilities conducive to good
quality education through increased equitable access to infrastructure, facilities, and equipment. A detailed
physical facilities survey has recently been completed by the LGED.

Classroom Construction and Renovations. Inview o f the benefits to be derivedfrom a move from a
double-shift to a single shift system o f primary education, and the advantage o f reducing class size to a
maximum of 46 pupils, it has beenestimated that construction o f at least 30,000 new classrooms would be
required. These additional classrooms, to be designedfor 40 students,will be much larger than the present
standard to facilitate innovative teaching. InYear 1about 4,000 additional classrooms will be completed,
andit is expected that additional classroom construction will be completed by the endofYear 4. Plans and
specifications for classrooms will be revisedto take into account the new norms. This program will also
include possible classroom constructionby local communities of up to 20 schools or 100 classrooms
(including facilities) per year (See Sub-component 2.3).

Underthis construction program, the following construction activities are included: (a) a minimumof two
model schools within each upazila for initial training o f teachers at PTIs; and (b) 2,000 new schools or
10,000 classrooms o f the new standard size inareas o f highpriority, such as those served by satellite
schools or those with large catchments lacking access to a GPS or RNGPS.

There would be a needto renovate classrooms inprimary schools to ensure that they are physically
adequate interms o f safety as well as inpromoting a conducive leaming environment. Dependingon needs,
primary schools would also be provided with appropriate furniture and blackboards. To increase
accountability for construction quality and good maintenance, a modality would be developed whereby
SMC can participate inprovisionof sanitation facilities and entrusted with annual funds for school
maintenance and repairs. Additionally, it i s plannedthat SMCs would become involvedinthe monitoring
and supervision of civil works and will provide in-kindcontributions o f 25% towards school maintenance t.
Such arrangement would involve the LGEDwhich i s responsible for physical infrastructure.

Draft criteria for school selection will be agreedby inception, based on a national survey of the status o f
infrastructure inprimary schools. Progress o f the sub-component will be measured by: (a) increase rate o f
physically adequate schools; (b) increase in schools with clean water supply and clean latrines for
girlsiboys and malelfemale teachers; (c) reduction inthe number o f "over-sized" classes; and (d) increase in


                                                    -51 -

percent o f children with access to school within two kilometers for their homes.

 Water and Sanitation Facilities (see Annex 12). Provisionhas also beenmade under the program for
ensuring access to safe water through the installation o fthe appropriate type of tubewells or other methods,
subject to the Government Protocol for ensuringthat students have access to arsenic-safe drinkingwater.
The estimated numberof tubewellsto be installedwould be about 15,000. To mitigate the problem of
arsenic contamination, initial testing and semi-annual testingo f tubewells will be carried out by an
authorized agency, most probably the Department o f Health Engineeringworking with the Local
Government EngineeringDepartment. Existing tubewells inprimary schools will also be included inthe
semi-annual testing. With regardto sanitation facilities, additional latrine facilities according to
specifications will also be provided as needed,with particular consideration for girls and female teachers.
Inaddition, PEDPII also makes provision to provide 15,000 separatelatrine facilities for teachersinall
primary schools. Insome cases, the buildingo f sanitation facilities would dependon community
participation. Hence, some procedures (established or new) will needto be adopted.

Primary Teacher TrainingInstitute (PTI) Facilities. Since PTIbuildingshave deteriorated over the
years, it i s proposed to renovate, extend, and upgrade all 53 PTI facilities to a level which will enable PTIs
to fully provide their services to the growing number o f teacher trainees for the Certificate inEducation
program, while meetingquality standards as well. PTIs will also be equippedwith the necessaryfacilities,
including furniture. A detailed assessment hasjust beencompleted and findings will be available during
inception. As inthe case o f primary classrooms, PTI specifications and plans will be revisedand adopted,
which will reflect new pedagogical requirements andpractical needs. Also in some PTIs, it will be
necessaryto demolish dilapidated and abandonedbuildingsas they pose a security risk.

Upazila OfJices and Upazila Resource Centers (URCs). Inorder to strengthen education management at
the upazila level, it will benecessaryto construct additional office space within the upazila education
complex to accommodate the professional needs o f AUEOs, and ancillary facilities. Detailedwork will be
carried out soon, based on the physical facilities survey. It appears that each upazila office would require
expansion, as the current available space i s overcrowded.

Since the URC concept appears promising, and pending further study on its impact under so far, the
program would provide for the construction o f almost 400 URCs, expected to be fully operational by July
2005. Since only 95 URCs out o f 174 established are reportedto be functional, it will be necessary to
phase construction in such a way that it is synchronized with staff recruitment and training. These URCs
will also be equipped with other facilities, including furniture. URCs will be built according to already
approved plans and specifications.

Physical Infrastructure Improvement at MoPME, DPE and other Educational Institutions. Based on
physical surveys, the organizational capacity analysis, and prioritizedneeds, MoPME educational
institutions will be renovated or expanded. Improvements would needto be made to education offices for
DPE, divisions, districts, and upazilas (see above), as well as NAPE and NCTB. The added facilities will
be gearedtowards improving service delivery andensuringthe sustainability of PEDPII initiatives (see
Components 1 and 2).




                                                     -52 -

Professional Fees and Construction Supervision. To ensure quality construction and to compensate
LGEDfor its services, fees at the rate of2.5% ofconstruction costswill beprovided. Additionally,
architecture and engineering firms would be hiredat the rate o f 2% of total construction costs per year to
monitor constructionquality and full accountability o f infrastructure funds, and to provide independent
supervision.

Project Component 4 US$890.90 million
                        -

Component4 -Improvingand SupportingEquitableAccess to Quality Schooling. This component
focuses on promoting and facilitating access to quality schooling for those children who have never
attended formal primary schooling, or who have dropped out before completing Class 5, mainly due to
poverty. Without participation o f these children, it would be impossible for GOB to reach its UPE goal by
2010. This component also includes capacity buildinginterventions which are essential for
institutionalizing strategies and processes critical for ensuring access for children disadvantaged by poverty
and special needs.

Sub-component 4.1 -Enhancing Institutional Capacity of DPE at Central and Decentralized levels

This sub-component includes a numbero f capacity-building activitiesrequiredto accommodate and
mainstream disadvantaged children, including children with special needs, within the formal primary
education system. DPE capacity will be enhanced by: (a) providing for the establishment o f posts in
"special needs" education within the Policy and Operations Division at the Directorate o f Primary
Education; (b) providing for the appointment o f one Special Education Advisor to each District level to
provide continuous support to upazilas, schools and communities in areas o f special needs education; (c)
appointing two Gender Specialists at Assistant Director level in the Training Division to be responsible for:
(i) issuesandawarenessinprimaryeducation;(ii)
   gender                                                   supporting other educational management units in
these areas (includingdeveloping gender related training modules); and (iii)    advising NCTB, NAPE and
PTI specialists, and communities and SMCs; and DPE inovercoming barriers to entry for potential women
teachers; (d) establishing a Task Force reporting to MoPME, and assistedby short-term international and
national consultants, to review existing policies on education and disability, andto recommendpolicies
towards inclusive education and promotiono f collaboration among various government agencies,
community-based organizations and civil society; and (e) advising communities and SMCs on the
importance o fbuildinga strong and equal role for girls and women inthe development o f Bangladesh.

4.2 ImprovingAccessfor Disadvantaged Children to Quality Schooling
    -
Inorder to attract andretainchildren facing difficult circumstances inparticipating inprimary education
the following strategies have been developed, namely providing: (a) financial support through stipends to
the 40 percent poorest families, based on a set ofcriteria, inbothrural and municipalareas, settingup a
regular review to ensure that the largest number o f the poorest are selected; (b) matching funds to
community-based organizations, private and other groups for fooddietary supplement programs, in
accordance with the provisions o f the "School Food Support" Operations Manual; (c) facilities for "Baby
Classes" at ruralprimary schools, inpartnership with schools and the community, to overcome the
opportunity costs associatedwith keeping elder siblings, especially girls, at home to take care o f young
children, with an appropriate pre-school program; and (d) through the Task Force mentioned in4.1 (d)
above, implementation strategies for mainstreaming special needs children into primary schools, which
would include public awareness, integration, adaptation to physical facilities, teacher professional
development inthese areas, and removal o f barriers to full integration.




                                                      - 53-

Inaddition, theprogramwould support special needs education activities inthese areas: (a) supporting the
"Shushikhar Jonno Shushasta" (better health for good education program) to increase good health and
education awareness, provide health assessment and referral services, andto facilitate early detection o f
disabilities; (b) the District Special Needs Education Advisers would provide training and support, and
deliver annual workshops to teachers and head teachers on relatedtopics; (c) local programs arising out o f
these activities could be funded through innovation grants according to criteria set by the Innovation Grants
Committee under MoPME's leadership. The ProgramCoordination Unit will be responsible for developing
an Innovation Grants Manual, with details on grants procedures (application, selection criteria, funding
provisions andguidelines, and reporting and monitoring requirements);and (d) promoting broader
community training with the help o f SMCs on satisfying needs o f children with social, economic,
intellectual and physical impairments, or those confronting obstacles to attending schools.

Furthermore, the program would also address the needs o f educationally disadvantaged rural children who
live infar flung areas or intribes, such as the Chittagong HillTracts, with the establishment of an
appropriate task force by MoPME to devise strategies for improving quality.

Stipendsfor the Poorest. InAugust 2001 the Planning Commission o f the Government o f Bangladesh
(GOB)approved aplanto extendthe existing successful Female Secondary Stipend Program (FSSP), for
girls, to Years 11 and 12 and to implement an additional new program for poor families ofrural Primary
age children. After an extensive review o f the present Food for Education Program (FFE) it was further
decided to replace the FFE with the proposed Primary Education Stipend Programto more effectively reach
its objective o f increasing Primary school enrolments and to improve retention. The program was launched
inSeptember2001 to enablepoorer ruralfamilies to, not only enroll andto retaintheir children inschool,
but to also provide an incentive to those children excluded by poverty to complete their primary schooling,
rather than working. The stipendprogram approved by GOB amounts to US$144 million annually, and
this will continue duringthe six years ofPEDPII(thus,the total amount will be US$864 million).

Selection criteria will target the poorest 40% o f the enrolled students inprimary schools. Head Teachers
will identifythe 40% cohort of families who will receive the stipend, incollaborationwith their School
Management Committees (SMC). Inthis way it is intendedthat the stipendprogram will distribute Tk.
100per monthto over six million children attending govemment and Madrassa schools inBangladesh and
will almost double the cash income of some ofthe poorest rural families, with existingannual incomes of
less than Tk. 1,500.

As the GOBreleasesthe funding, the stipendprogram will be implementedthrough three Bangladeshi
Banks, with flmdingbeingchanneled to the Upazila level. Payments will be made to the mothers o f the
recipients inthe first instance, or otherwise, to the father or legal guardian o f the selected children. To
ensure transparency, a picture identitycard will be prepared, signed and submittedto the Bank by the Head
Teacher, and the mothers will be paid the stipendquarterly on presentation o f their identity cards.
Monitoringwill be carried out at the Upazila level, and the Directorate o f Primary Education (DPE) will
designate one monitoring officer ineach District to oversee the program. It i s envisaged in PEDPII that
the design o f the stipends program and the mechanism for disbursing stipends will be reviewedon the basis
of systematic monitoring and evaluation, and fine-tuned accordingly.

Primary Education Planfor Tribal Children. A Primary Education Plan for Tribal Children (PEPTC)
has been developed by MoPME inconsultation with representatives o f tribal groups, local government,
NGOs and MoPME officials to address the needs o f expanding education provisionfor tribal children
within PEDPII. Itis estimated that about 260,000 tribal children are within age group 6-10 years ofwhich
about 55% are out o f school. PEDPIIproposes to improve access o f the tribal children into primary


                                                      - 54 -

education through the following actions: (a) extension and rehabilitation o f the existing government
primary schools (GPS) for out-of-school tribal children will beundertaken on aprioritybasis; (b) social
mobilization and inclusive SMC will be established intribal areas for motivating parents to send children to
school; (c) existingcurriculum, including teachingAearning materials and classroom activities, will be
reviewed to ensurepositive portrayal o f the diversity o f Bangladeshi culture; (d) training needs for teachers
and head teachers from tribal communities will be reviewedand supported; and (e) for Monitoring and
Evaluation, development and inclusion of tribal education and social development data inthe EMIS will be
undertaken to provide a baseline for monitoring during the implementation.




                                                   - 55 -

                                        Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                    BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II




                                                          Tk Million                      US$Million          % of
                Component                      Local       Foreign     Total       Local   Foreign  Total    Base cost


A. BaseCostla


   I.QualityImprovementthrough
      OrganizationalDevelopment                 2,515.9      1,718.3    4,234.2      43.1     29.4     72.6        4%
      andCapacityBuilding


   2. Quality Improvementin
      Schools andClassrooms                   20,465.5       7,259.4  27,724.9      350.7   124.4     475.1       28%


   3. Quality Improvementthrough              16,508.9       1,694.5   18,203.5     282.9     29.0    312.0       18%
      InfrastructureDevelopment


   4. Improving and Supporting
      Equitable Access to Quality             48,185.7         171.5  48,357.1      825.8      2.9    828.7       49%
      Schooling


      TOTAL BASE COSTS                        87,676.0     10,843.7    98,519.7    1,502.6  185.8    1,688.4     100%


B. Contingencies


   1. Physical Contingencies/b                  4,383.8        542.2    4,926.0       75.1     9.3      84.4       5%
   2. Price Contingencies/c                     2,191.9        271.1    2,463.0       37.6     4.6     42.2        3%

           Sub-total                            6,575.7        813.3    7,389.0      112.7    13.9     126.6       8%



TOTAL COSTS                                   94,251.7     11,657.0   105,908.7    1,615.3  199.8    1,815.1     108%



Source: ADBiJoint Appraisal Mission Estimates (August 2003).
a/ Base costs include taxes VAT, customs and duties, estimatedat $34.31 million.
                            -
bi Estimatedat 5 percent of base cost of capital expenditure.
c i Estimatedat 2.5 percent of foreign and local costs.

                          Expenditure Accounts by Components Totals Including Contingencies
                                                                            -
                                                              (US$ '000)


                                   Component 1       Component 2      Component 3    Component 4    la
                                                        Quality                       Improved     Program
                                                     Improvement                      Access to   Management      Total Program
                                    Institutional      in Schools     Infrastructure   Quality    Monitoring                  % o f
                                   Development       and Classroom    Development     Schooling  & Evaluation   Amount       Total
~



 I.InvestmentCosts
   A. Civil Works                      4,256.0         15,484.0        289,018.0                                 308,758.0    17%
   B. Vehicles                         3,396.0            163.0                                       870.0        4,429.0   0.2%
   C. Equipment                        3,308.0          3,014.0                           150.0       103.0         6,575.0  0.4%
   D. Furniture                          317.0                          46,350.0                                  46,667.0    3%
   E. Books and Materials                             141,584.0                         1,506.0                   143,090.0   8%
   F. Local Training                   6,758.0         50,334.0                                                   57,092.0    3%
   G. International Consultants        2,652.0          1,324.0                           545.0    12,619.0        17,140.0   1%
   H.National Consultants                370.0            220.0                           125.O     4,530.0         5,245.0  0.3%
   I.InternationalFellowships          2,182.0          1,631.0                                                     3,813.0   0.2%
   J. Grants                             555.0         75,207.0                       23,449 .O                   99,211.0    5%
   K. Studies                            815.0          2,746.0                                     2,815.0         6,376.0   0.4%
   L.Stipends Program                                                                 864,000.0                  864,000.0    48%

   Total Investment Costs                                              335,368.0      889,775.0    20,937.0     1,562,396.0   86%

 11. Recurrent Costs
   A. Incremental Salaries            22,230.0        215,342.0                           888.0       410.0      238,870.0    13%
   B. Operating Costs                  3,337.0          3,735.0                           235.0     6,476.0 /b     13,783.0    1%


   Total Recurrent Costs                                                                1,123 .O    6,886.0      252,653.0    14%



 T O T A L PROGRAM COSTS                                                              890,898.0    27,823.0 ib  1,815,049.0   100%


   Taxes                                  n.a.             n.a.             n.a.           n.a.        n.a.            34.3 0.002%
   Foreign Exchange                  12,565.0        133,743.0         31.219.0        3,238.0     19,090.0       199,855.0   11%


 % of Total                                3%              28%              18%            49%          2%            100%



 Source: ADBiJoint Appraisal mission estimates (August 2003).


 ai Part o f Component 1; a separate breakdown i s given to provide more details
    on costs for Project Management and Monitoring & Evaluation.

 bi Includes US$5.3 million for ADB Service Charge




                                                              - 57 -

                                    Annex 4: Economic and Fiscal Analysis
                   BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II
                                               Part I:EconomicAnalysis

I. Background

Bangladesh has a strong national commitment to education and has one o f the largest primary education
systems inthe world. Gains inaccess have beenimpressive-total                    enrollment has increased substantially
duringthe last decadeand gross primary enrollment rates rose from 76 percent in 1991to 97.5 percent in
2002. Furthermore, dropout rates fell by a third--from nearly 60 percent in 1991 to 30 percent in2000.
Genderparity inaccess to primary education has also beenachieved.

Inthe year 2001 nearly 17.7million students were enrolledinover 78,000 primary levelinstitutions. O f
the total number of students, about 15.8 million (49 percent girls) were enrolledingovernment funded,
formal primary education schools (Table 1). Government primary schools and experimental schools
attached to PTIs are fully funded by the Ministryo f Primary and Mass Education (MoPME). MoPME
funds 70-90 percent ofregisterednon-government primary schools, andprovides 500TK per teacher for
community and satellite schools. The other types o f schools are recognized but not funded by the
government

       Table 1:Primary Educationby type of school, number of schools, teachers, Gross
                                         Enrollment, Student-teacherratio




            n-RegisteredNon-Government




Source: "Primary Education Statistics in Bangladesh-200 1." Directorate of Primary Education, Primary and Mass Education D vision,
         Government o f the People's Republic o f Bangladesh. May 2001.




The primary education systemis also targeted at enhancing equity inaccess The poor account for about
                                                                                           -
50 percent of the total population, and 53 percent o f students inthe primary education systemcome from
poor households. Expendituresat the primary level are also strongly pro-poor as the poor receive 56
percent o f all government subsidies on primary education.




                                                             - 58 -

Despite the considerable progress made over the past decade, the best estimates o f net enrolment rate
(NER) suggest that at any one time there are more than four million children of the primary school cohort
(6-10 years) out of school. The highgross enrolment rate (estimated at 97 percent) hides the fact that many
young children are not at school andmany others enroll at an older age than required by the compulsory
education legislation. While there i s a highlevel of gender parity interms o f total enrolments (5 1percent
boys and 49 percent girls in 2001), there is far less parity interms of access o f the education provision for
children inremote rural areas, especially children in the tribal and HillTract regions.

                           Box 1: The Non-formalEducationSector inBangladesh

 The School Survey carried out by CAMPE 2000 provides some evidence on the size and efficiency o f the
 non-formal sector. This survey was based on a representative sample o f 952 learning centers. According
 to this publication, the non-formal sector   - mainly centers run by NGOs - enrolls 7.1 percent o f total
 enrollment in the country (68 percent o f these children are in centers run by BRAC, and 11 percent in
 centers runby Proshika). However these centers are not officially recognizedby MOPME.

 By and large, efficiency indicators in non-formal centers are better than that in formal schools. Table 1
 provides information on some indicators o f efficiency. The coefficient o f efficiency is a ratio if the
 expected pupilyears to complete the cycle and total pupil years actually spent to produce those graduates.



   Type        of    Promotion      DropOut     Repeaters      Co-efficient  YearslGraduate    Attendance
   School                (YO)          (YO)        (YO)        of efficiency                    Rates(YO)
   Government           87.5           4.7          7.8            77.1             6.5            58.8
   Private              85.3           5.2          9.5            73.6             6.8            55.6
   Madrassah            82.3           7.8          9.9            67.6             7.4            46.I
   Non-formal           96.3           3.3          0.4            87.2             5.7            87.5

 Part o f the reason for this is that non-formal centers spend a significant proportion o f their recurrent
 expenditures on teaching and learning materials, while most o f the expenditures in public schools i s on
 teacher salaries (Table 2). Data also indicate that the unit expenditureipupil in the non-formal sector i s
 lower than expenditures for the other three types o f schooling.



            Sources of              Government        Private       Madrassahs        Non-formal
            Expenditure
            Salaries                    94.6            87.4             93.9            51.1
            Booksimaterials             1.6             4.6              2.1             31.8
            Rent                        0.6             0.4              0.6             15.8
            Other expenditures          3.2             7.6              3.4             1.3

   Furthermore, anecdotal evidence suggests that these centers target the poorer sections o f society.
 However empirical data to this effect is unavailable. The data presented above suggest that the non-formal
 system is effective indelivering quality primary education inBangladesh.


A major problemis that o f education quality - which is almost uniformly poor. Poor system quality i s
directly related to the lack o f effective govemance, with limited accountability or autonomy at all levels o f
the system. The poor quality o f the system i s reflected in l o w student achievements and completion rates,
andpoor basic competencies at the end o f the primary cycle. Furthermore the quality ofteachers remains a
major concern   - the majority o f the teachers in government primary schools attain some training, but most
are under-qualified and under-skilled for the important educational role they are expected to perform.
Owing to the fact that teachers are not highlypaid, absenteeism rates are high. The issue of poor quality i s
further discussed inthe section below.



                                                        - 59 -

Another major problem i s that o f the non-recognitionby MoPME o f the non-formal system inBangladesh,
which enroll an additional 1.2million children in over 45,000 non-formal educational centers, and provides
cost-effective education and highquality education as compared to the formal education system (see Box
1).

PEDPII is currently focused only on the funded formal primary education system. The objectives o f the
program are to improve the quality o f primary education and enhance the access o f the poor to primary
education. The economic analysis below provides the rationale andjustification for the project. A
cost-benefit analysis has also beencarried out to determine the cost-effectiveness o f the project.

I(a) Project Coherently set in ESW

Bangladesh's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) emphasizes the necessity o f providing
quality primary education and states that the unsatisfactory performance o f the primary education system
contributes to a colossal loss insystemic efficiency for the education sector as a whole. PEDPII reflects
the IPRSP's strategy ofimprovingthe quality o fthe primary education system, and also incorporates two
essential considerations necessary for achieving EFA:


     0    addressing the inequitable distribution o f educational opportunities in-country; and
     0    ensuring that meetingaccess goals does not come at the cost of enhancing education quality.

Additionally, the program is designed within the context o f the recent World Bank ESW, Bangladesh
Education Sector Review (2000). The analysis revealedthat substantial progress has beenmade in
increasing enrolments at the primary level inBangladesh over the last two decades-from around eight
million at the beginningof the 1980sto over 20 million by 2001, including over two million students
enrolled ina vibrant and dynamic non-govemmental sector. However the system faces several challenges:


     0   About 10percent o f the children do not enter primary school at all. These children are mainly
          from the hard-to-reach poor families for whom the opportunity cost o f attending school i s too
         high;
     0   40 percent o f those who do enter primary education do not complete five grades;
     0   Repetitionand dropout rates are high- students take six years to reach the fourth grade; and
     0   Those who do complete five grades performon average at about a third grade achievement level
          and lack essentialproblem solving skills.

     The ESW analysis further states that the poor quality o f education arises out of constraints which can
     be classified into three types:

    0    Demand side factors that prevent children from going to school or from benefitingfrom the
         educational services provided by the school. For example, poverty, direct costs o f schooling,
         opportunity costs, the special needs o f some children, cultural constraints and prejudices.


    0    Supply-side factors that limit their capacity to provide adequate quality education opportunities
         for children living inthe area. For example, schools not being accessible, short contact hours,
         inadequate facilities, untrained and poorly trained teachers often with inadequate knowledge, lack
         of teaching and leaming resources, teacher inertia and absenteeism. A related supply-side issue i s
         the fact that teachers lack adequate incentives to performwell inschool and may infact be getting
         a proportion o f their household income from providing private tuition, from which the poor cannot


                                                      - 60 -

          benefit.


     0    Institutional policies and administrative arrangements that can keep children from attending
          school or performing at an acceptable level or limitthe school andclassroom's capacity to provide
          an effective education. For example, the "shift" system, weak organizational capacity, an
          organizational culture that does not properly value primary education, the high level of centralized
          management, staffing policies that create inefficiency, inadequate funding arrangements, inability
          to make the most effective use o f available funds, and lack o f easy linkages between the formal
          andnon-formal sectors.

The review goes on to say that solutions to these problems requirepriority attention to improvements in
quality aimed at reducing wastage inthe system, and leadingto increased completion rates. Furthermore,
that hard-to-reach children should be targeted through compensatory programs.

PEDPII aims to address these constraints by increasing primary school access, and through various
measures aimed at improving the quality o f student leaming and performance outcomes. These objectives
are to be achieved through components that address organizational development, capacity building,
management and monitoring; improvements in schools andclassrooms; infrastructure development; and
through supporting equitable access to quality schooling.

I@)  Project Coherently set in the CAS
        The problems o f low quality are recognized inthe latest CAS 21326-DB dated February 8,2001,
which states that despite impressive gains recorded ineducation inthe past decade, improving quality
remains a major challenge. The CAS states that IDA and other donors would continue advocacy and
support for improving access to and the quality and efficiency o fprimary education. PEDPII, which aims
to enhance the quality o f primary education and increase access to education for the disadvantaged, directly
responds to the CAS recommendation.

11.    Rationale for Intervention

Primary-level education i s universally regarded as a public good, with significant extemalities. Enhanced
primary education is strongly correlated with economic development and with increased productivity.
Without PEDPII, the majority o f the labor force will continue to lack the foundation of a good-quality basic
education, will remain unskilled,leading to low levels o f productivity. PEDPII, through providinghigh
quality primary school education to children, will put them on the road towards better employment and
income-eamingpossibilities. The enhancedlevel of education and literacy achieved should be a significant
factor inbreakingthe cycle o f poverty inthe rural areas o f Bangladesh. The main economic arguments for
a proactive role for the Government and the Bank inthis sector are as follows:


     0   Returns. There are highprivate and social returns to investinginprimary education - cost-benefit
         analysis studies o f primary school education show very highrates o f return. Furthermore,
         enhancedprimary education is strongly correlated with economic development and with increased
         productivity. Without a high-quality primary education system, the majority o f the labor force
         will continue to lack basic skills that will be crucial to increasing efficiency and productivity inthe
         labor market. PEDPII aims to provide an a better quality primary school education to the children
         o f Bangladesh, will be to put them on the roadtowards better employment and income-eaming
         possibilities.

         Equity. Primary education spendinginBangladesh is pro-poor and the government has an


                                                      -61  -

          important role to play in continuing to ensure that access to education - especially education o f
          highquality is equitable. PEDPII interventions, such as the targeted stipendprogram, and
                         -
          matching funds to community-based organizations, private and other groups for fooddietary
          supplementprograms, are aimed at achieving this objective.


     0    Relationship with higher levels of education. The I-PRSP document concludes that
          unsatisfactory performance o f the primary education system has a ripple effect as it contributes to
          a significant loss in systemic efficiency. The outputs o f a poor quality primary education system
          proceed to the secondary level and higher levels and are unable to performwell (this i s also
          becausethe quality o f secondary education is poor) and ultimately this leads to a loss in
          employability and productivity. PEDPII aims to enhance the quality o f the throughput out o f the
          primary education system.


     0    Information. Currently, systematic monitoring and evaluation o f the primary education system
          does not take place. The government has a crucial role to play inthe collection, analysis and
          dissemination o f information on the quality and effectiveness o f education provided indifferent
          institutions, and on analyzing how efficiently public and private funds flow through the
          administrative and budgetary system and ultimately reach teachers and schools; and determining
          how those resources are combinedwith other inputs at the school levelto generate education
          outcomes. By puttinginplace effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, PEDPIIwill aim
          to ensure that such information i s readily available and can feed back into policy.

111. Cost Benefit Analysis

The project is designedto improve access, especially to full 5-year primary schools, and for disadvantaged
and"special needs" children, as well as improve the quality and efficiency o fthe primary education
sub-sector inBangladesh.

Project cost-benefit analysis has produced an approximate internal rate o f return (IFZR) o f about 14
percent for the project investment at a net present value o f US$1.22 billion using a discount rate o f 12
percent. Project benefits have beenprimarily proxied for through increased earning o f graduates of the
primary education system, that will come about through quality enhancements.

Benefitsstream:The program design focuses on quality improvements that will establishthe necessary
foundation for a more efficient and effective primary education system.The investmentwill promote
quality improvements ineducation, beneficiaries o f which will be the incremental students entering the
education systemas well as those who are already inthe primary education stream. Quality improvements
will include reduced student-teacher ratio, increase in the number o f textbooks and supplemental materials,
better physical facilities, and increase inthe number of student-teacher contact hours for teaching and
learning activities. Key improvements that will contribute to the sustainable development o f better quality
primary education include the development o f highquality initial and post-initial training programs for
teachers and Head Teachers that will ensure the greater use o f classroom practices that are appropriate for
the teaching and learning o f basic competencies, especially literacy and numeracy, and other foundation
concepts that underpinlearning ineveryday life and in secondary and higher education. The provision o f
thenecessaryadditionalteaching and learning resourceswill ensure that every school has the basic tools
and aids to support the new methodologies. However, none of these improvements will be sustainable
unless and untilsystemcapacity and efficiency i s enhanced. The program will meet this needthrough
improved HRDstrategies and the provisiono f additional financial and other resources. Ensuringthat these
improvements reachbeyond the urban areas to the furthest regions o f Bangladesh will assist inovercoming


                                                      - 62 -

the barriers causedby remoteness and geography. The proxy for capturing the benefits arising from
quality improvements are estimated to be increased earnings in the labor market at around 8 percent.

Economic benefits are estimated inaccordancewith the following assumptions:


    0    Population growth rate i s based on World Bank projections (www.http:\sima\EdStats\td6.asp):
          1.22% (2001-08); -1.09% (2009-2015); 1.38% (2016-2020).
    0    Improvedaccess to primaryeducation i s achieved for educationally disadvantaged children,
         especially children o fminority groups, through the stipend program, enhanced school facilities
         and resources, and improved classroom resources and teaching.
    0    The defined GER target for primary schooling of 106percent is achievedby 2008/9.
    0    The definedNERtarget for primary schooling of 88 percent is achieved by 2008/9. (Note: NER is
         a more effective targeting measure for Bangladesh where the GER is already close to 100 percent.
         It can be expected to increase for someyears, but as the NER approaches 100 percent thenthe
         GERwill also fall back towards paritywith the NER.)
    0    Repetitionrates are reduced by at least 20 percent by 2008/9 over 2001-2 baseline figures.
    0    Dropout rates are reducedby about 45 percent, from 33 percent in2001/2 to 18 percent in
         2008/9.
    0    N o increase i s assumedfor additional years o f schooling ifthe full five years o f primary schooling
         are not completed.
    0    The benefits are estimated for completion ofthe primary cycle only. No allowance is made for the
         fact that the improvements inprimary education will allow more children to attend secondary
         school and thereby have access to even greater earning power.
    0    Incrementalearnings benefits are calculated on the basis of increased earning with each additional
         year o f primary schooling.
    0    Quality improvements include reducedstudent-teacherratio, improvements inteaching due to
         increased teacher training, increase inthe number o f textbooks and supplementary materials,
         better physical facilities, and increase inthe number o f student-teacher contact hours for teaching
         and learning activities. It i s assumedthat a better quality education leads to higher returns to
         primary education.

Cost Stream: The estimated direct costs o fthe project comprise the project investment,the public and
private cost o f each additional pupil-year,and the opportunity cost o f retaining each student inschool for
an additional year. Public costs are estimated to be equal to government expenditure per pupil attending
public primary schools, that i s approximately $12/year, and private costs are those incurredby the families
of each pupil on school fees, books and school supplies, transportation, etc., estimated at $12/year. The
opportunity cost o f retaining each student in school for an additional year i s estimated equal to the wage for
an unskilledworker with no school certificates completed.

Usingthese assumptions, the project yields an Internal Economic Rate o f Return (EIRR) of 13.88 percent
(Table 2). Net present value has been calculated based on a discount rate o f 12 percent.




                                                     - 63 -

                                                                  Net Present Value

                                    Benefitstream                 US$7.79 billion
                                    Cost stream                   US$6.75 billion
                                    Net benefit stream            US$l.22 billion
                                    IRR                           13.88 percent

                                 L                              I                               I
                               * I t is assumed that the economic andfinancial rates of return to be the same




It should be borne inmindthat the real rate o freturn is likely to be somewhat higher reflecting positive
externalities and longer-term intergenerational social benefits that come with increased levels o f education,
including lower fertility rates and improved health outcomes to which it i s difficult to assign monetary
values.

IV. SensitivityAnalysis

Rates o f return are also computed on the basis o f alternative assumptions regarding the internal and
external efficiency o f the system. For the purpose o f this analysis, (a) dropout and repetition rates are
utilized as proxies and changes ininternal efficiency are assumed to be captured by changes indropout and
repetition rates (and hence completion rates); and (b) potential wage growth rate is utilized as proxy for
changes inexternal efficiency. While these distinctions are somewhat artificial, they provide us with some
interesting information about the changes inrates o f returns based on different assumptions regarding the
system efficiency.

Table 3 highlightsthe rates o f returns under different assumptions. The "low" case for the internal
efficiency i s based on dropouts and repetitions rising by 50 percent as compared to the base case, while the
"high" case is based on dropouts and repetitions falling by 50 percent as compared to the base case. With
regards to the external efficiency-the "low" case is based on a wage growth o f only 50 percent as compared
to the base case, while the "high" case i s based on a wage growth o f 50 percent more as compared to the
base case.




                                                              External Efficiency
                         InternalEfficiency              Low      I Medium       1     High
                         Low                             6.08     1    13.67     1   20.41
                         Medium                     I    6.12          13.88     I   20.69
                        High                        I    6.39     II   14.16     I   21.05



This table demonstrates that the rates o freturn are highly sensitive to changes inassumptions regarding the
external efficiency o f the system. For example, controlling for changes ininternal efficiency, a 50 percent
change inexternal efficiency roughly corresponds to a 50 percent change in the rates o f return. On the
other hand, controlling for changes in external efficiency, a 50 percent change inthe internal efficiency
corresponds to just a 2-3 percent change inthe rates o f return.




                                                              -64   -

V. Poverty Analysis

InBangladesh, as elsewhere, correlationbetween educational development andreductioninthe incidence of
poverty, improvement inlabor productivity, economic growth, and the quality o f life i s recognized and
obvious. Without a strengtheningo f primary, and then later, secondary education, it will be virtually
impossible for Bangladesh to halt the cycle o f poverty. But, that i s no small challenge. A large proportion
o f the population i s so poor that the opportunity costs o f sendinga relatively young child to work create a
considerable barrier to increasing the number o f years o f school participation, increasing the rates o f
completion and improving the quality o f learning. Yet, unless parents and the wider community see the
relevance and benefits o f primary education then overcoming these barriers will be all that more difficult. In
this sense improvingthe quality o f schoolingis an essential step. Evensuch support mechanisms as the
stipend program will only solve the "numbers" problem. By negating the opportunity costs o f
non-participation inprimary schooling the stipendwill increase bothparticipation and completion. But,
economic growth and release from poverty will require far more thanjust attending school. The school
experience itselfmust be worthwhile.

The Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy acknowledges the primacy of the educational role in
combating and overcoming poverty. PEDPIIby focusing on quality improvement-especially inthe rural
areas and across all elements o f the primary education sector, from schools to supervision, from
management to monitoring-translates the poverty reduction strategy into action oriented interventions.
PEDPII and donors' support for its implementation will contribute to an acceleration o f the Bangladesh
populationto become a more literate society, and by so doing provide a stronger foundation on which to
buildeconomic growth andfuture economic development.

 V (a) Poverty Targeting

The Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy and the BangladeshPublic ExpenditureReview (2001)
provide a good description o f the poverty targeting at the primary education level. Primary education
expendituresare strongly pro-poor. The key factor drivingthe pro-poor distribution o fprimary education
i s the age composition, which more than offsets the lower enrollment rates among the poor. InBangladesh
the poor receive 56 percent o f all government subsidies onprimary education. Since the poor account for
about 50 percent o f the total population, primary education spendingi s strongly pro-poor. Intheory, the
amount o f subsidy accruing to a sub-group depends on the number o f potential users, the rate o f use among
those users, and the level o fper-user subsidy. Inthe case o fprimary education, the number of potential
users i s largely determinedby the geographic composition, and more specifically, by the number o f
children. 27 percent o f all children 6 to 10years old belong to the 20 percent poorest population, while
only 12percent belong to the richest 20 percent. Overall, 3 out o f 5 children inthis age group come from
poor households and 2 out o f 5 come from non-poor households. The rate o f use (enrollment rate) is lower
among the poor, and per-student subsidies are roughly comparable across income groups. Thus, the key
factor drivingthe pro-poor distribution o fprimary education i s the age composition, which more than
offsets the lower enrollment rates among the poor (Table 4).




                                                      - 65 -

    Table4. Distributionof expenditures,across expenditurequintilesand poor andnon-poor




      Note:     figures in parenthesis indicates `all in
      education.'
      Source: "Bangladesh: Poverty Assessment-Benefit      IncidenceAnalysis: Educationand Health Sectors."
               World Bank andAsian DevelopmentBank. November 2001.

Despite the impressive pro-poor targeting, there i s considerable scope to improve the pro-poor focus of
government expenditures, even at the primary level. Public resources cover roughly halfo f education
costs, and since householdexpenditure is less equitably distributed relative to income than is public
expenditure (as shown inthe table above), the distribution of total expenditure ineducation across income
quintiles is considerably less equitable than the benefit incidence o fpublic expenditure. Private education
expenditures are lower among the poor, implyingthat poor children have fewer supplies and other learning
materials, which hamper their learning achievements. Inaddition, since much o f private spendingis
devoted to tutoring and poor are less able to afford it, this might lead to direct discrimination by the
teachers o f the poor and possibly less able students. These factors indicate that while it i s not possible to
equate total (public andprivate) education expenditures between poor and non-poor, reducing inequality in
education resources devoted to the poor would call for improvements intargeting.

Two aspects will contribute to a more pro-poor targeting o f public education expenditures as part o f the
PEDPIIprocess: (i) monetization o f the Food for Education Program (FFE); and (ii) increased
                      The                                                                      The
government spending inthe context o f PEDPII and Education For All (EFA)targets.

InAugust 2001the PlanningCommission ofthe Government ofBangladesh (GOB)approved aplanto
implement an additional new program for poor families ofrural Primary age children. After areview ofthe
FFEprogram it was decided to replace the program with the proposed Primary Education Stipend Program
to better target poor students. The program was launched in September 2001 to enable poorer rural
families to, not only enroll and to retain their children in school, but to also provide an incentive to those
children excluded by poverty to complete their primary schooling, rather than working. This program i s
now beingexpanded to urban areas. Over the six years o f PEDPII, the total expenditure on this program i s
expected to be over US3860 million).

Current selection criteria are aimed at targeting the poorest 40 percent o f enrolled students in primary
schools. Head Teachers will identifythe poorest 40 percent cohort o f families who will receive the stipend,
in collaboration with their School Management Committees (SMC).               In this way it is intended that the
stipend program will distribute between Tk. 100-125 per month to approximately five million children
attending rural government schools inBangladesh.

These criteria need to be looked into more carefully and may need to be revised in order to ensure that the


                                                       - 66 -

stipend program i s well-targeted.     Two studies are currently being undertaken in the context o f the
preparation process for PEDPII: (i)     an assessment o f the design and targeting o f the primary education
stipend program by drawing lessons from international experience on such programs; and (ii)an
assessment o f the relative impacts o f the food for education program and the recently implemented primary
education stipend program on outcomes at the student, household, school, and community levels. This will
be done by conducting household, school, and community level surveys inthe country.

V (6) Poverty Simulations

         This section briefly analyses the poverty impact o f PEDPII under alternative scenarios. Given that
the stipend program has been recently introduced (and this program is key to assessing the poverty impact
o f PEDPII) and little inknown about the success o f the program regarding targeting, these simulations are
necessarily rough.

         Currently 53.5 percent o f the enrolled students at the primary level are `poor'. Furthermore, these
students receive close to 55 percent o f public subsidies on education. Till last year, the FFEprogram was
the main poverty targeted program at the primary education level and Taka. 4.61 billion were allocated to
this program, out o f a total primary education budget o froughly 30 billionTaka. Ifthis poverty targeted
subsidy is taken out o f the budget, the poor receive close to 40 percent o f the subsidies (we call this the
"non-targeted" proportion). The primary education stipend program has been introduced since late 2001 in
place o f the FFE.

         Inorder to estimate the incremental poverty impact ofPEDPII, i.e., with the stipend, recognizing
that the stipend program replaces the FFE, two scenarios have been evaluated. Inthe first scenario, it is
assumed that the proportion o f poor students remains constant over time (i,e., at 53.5 percent) and the
indirectly targeted proportion o f education expenditures receivedby the poor also remains constant (i.e., at
40 percent). With PEDPII, assuming that the stipend program is well-targeted and there are no leakages in
the system the primary education program clearly becomes more pro-poor. By the end o f PEDPII, close to
67 percent o f public expenditures will be targeted to the poor. Moreover, while the system does not become
more equitable in terms o f access (due to the assumption o f a constant proportion o f poor inthe program),
total enrollments o f the poor rise from roughly 8.5 million in2001 to 11.2 million by the end o f PEDPII.

         Inthe second scenario, it is assumed that as a result o fthe stipendprogram more poor students are
drawn into the primary education system, i.e., the proportion o f the poor inthe primary education system
rises from 53.5 percent in 2001 to 56.5 percent by the end o f PEDPII    - with a proportional increase in
non-targeted expenditures going to the poor. Under this scenario, over 75 percent o f public expenditures
will be spent on the poor, while enrollment o fthe poor will rise to about 11.7 million. With the stipend
program, PEDPII will support enhanced equity inthe primary education sub-sector. Hence, under either
scenario -PEDPII (especially the stipends component) will lead to enhanced equity inthe primary
education sub-sector.

                                          Part 11: FiscalAnalysis

Long-term sustainability o f the benefits o f PEDPII i s dependent on two key factors: (a) the availability o f
revenue to meet the additional recurrent costs that will arise inevitably from the adoption o f the PEDPII
strategy; and (b) the willingness o f Government to meet those new recurrent costs at the possible expense o f
other budget claims. The Government has indicated its firm commitment to continue, long-term, with the
sustained improvement o fprimary education. The Government also, has included inits Medium-Term



                                                     - 67 -

Macroeconomic Framework (MTMF), over the three years to FY2005, increased budgetary allocations to
the education sector, risingsuccessively bothnominally and inpercentage terms year by year. The
Government has made it clear that it regardsthe successfuldevelopment and continuance o f high-quality
primary education as one o f its highestpriorities.

Actual revenues collected fall short o f revenues spent by approximately Tk144 billion or by more than
US$2 billion annually. The deficit i s beingmet by a mix of domestic and foreign financing, including bank
borrowing. The GOB has pledged to increasethe efficiency o f revenue collection and to reduce the budget
imbalance below its present level o f 5.3 percent o f GDP.

Estimates o f the likely revenue expenditures for primary education over the plan period and beyondhave
beenmade usingseveral assumptions regardinggrowth of GDP, RevenueExpenditures, Allocation of
Revenue budget to Education, andthe share o f primary education within the Education allocation. The key
question with respect to sustainability i s the following: Are the PEDPIIproposals sustainable underthe
GOB'Sregular budgetfrom year 7 on?

The analysis shows that revenue expenditures available to primary education needto rise substantially to
meet the costs o f continuing the activities initiated under PEDPII. Only with a return to the level o f
EducationRevenue Expenditures o f the early 1990swould the proposed program be sustainedinthe sense
o f beingabsorbed into the regular RevenueBudget.

V I (a) Assumptionsfor the Macroeconomic Framework

          The analysis of current andprojectedbudget for primary education has been carried out. The
results o f two scenarios are presented here: a base-case scenario and a highgrowth scenario (Tables 5 and
6). The base-case scenario utilizes conservative assumptions to assess the consistency o f PEDPII with the
macroeconomic framework. GDP projections and growth rate are based on IMF projections. GDP growth
rate i s assumedto be constant at 4.0 percent from 2003-09. This impliesthat Government maintains sound
macroeconomic management and proceeds with implementingthe reform agenda. Total government budget
as a percentage o f absolute GDP i s taken from I M F estimates and i s projected to increase at a nominal rate
from 14.5 percent in2001-02 to 15.5 percent in2008-09. The proportion o f education sector budgetto
Government o f Bangladesh (GOB--projections taken from MTEFand IPRSP) is projected to remain
constant at the 2001-02 level o f 15 percent over the period 2003-09. And the proportion o f education
budgetgoing to primary education is maintained at 2001-02 levelo f44.6 percent        .




                                                       - 68 -

Table 5: Base Case Scenario:GDP, GovernmentBudget,EducationBudget,and PrimaryEducation
                                   BudgetForecast,2003-08, US$ billions




   Proportion of GovernmentBudgetto        15.0     15.0      15.0    15.0    15.0      15.0    15.0    15.0
    Education(%)
    Total EducationBudget                  1.02     1.15     1.20     1.24    1.28      1.33    1.38    1.43
    U S $ billions
    Proportionof EducationBudgetto         44.6    44.6      44.6     44.6    44.6     44.6     44.6   44.6
    PrimaryEducation(%)
    Total Primary EducationBudget         0.452    0.513    0.536    0.551   0.573    0.592    0.615   0.640
    US$billions



          The results of the base-case scenario show that total government budget as a percentage of GDP
could increaseby about 41 percent over the period2003-09, Le., from $6.78 billionin2001-02 to $9.57
billion in2008-09. As aresult of the increase inoverall government budget, the allocation for educationis
similarly projected to increaseby approximately 40 percent over the period2003-09 (from$1.02 billion in
2001-02 to $1.43 billion in2008-09), with the allocation for primary educationfollowing the same trend,
i.e., rising by about41 percentover the same period(from $452.5 millionin2001-02 to $639.9 million in
2008-09).

      Table 6: HighGrowthScenario:GDP, Government Budget,EducationBudget,and Primary
                             EducationBudgetForecast,2003-08, US$ billions




For the high growth scenario, GDP growth i s based on the IMF high economic growth scenario. Underthe




                                                    - 69 -

 IMF's higheconomic growth scenario, the GDP growth rate is assumedto increasefrom 3.8 percent in
 2001-02 to 6.5 percent in 2008-09. The total government budget as a percentage o f absolute GDP is again
 based on IMF estimates and is projectedto increase from 14.5 percent in2001-02 to 16.3 percent in
 2008-09. Again the proportion o f education sector budget to the total government budget, and the
 proportion o f the education budget to be allocated for primary education are both based on GOB
 projections Ministry of Finance. The former i s projectedto increasenominally from 15 percent in2001-02 to
 16 percent in2008-09, and the latter i s projected to increase from 44.6 percent in2001-02 to 52 percent in
 2008-09.




 The results of the highgrowth scenario show that total government budget as apercentage of GDP could
 increase by about 60 percent over the period 2003-08, from $6.78 billion in2001-02 to $10.87 billion in
'2007-08. The allocation for education i s projected to increase by approximately 71 percent over the period
 2003-08, from $1.02 billion in 2001-02 to $1.74 billion in2007-08, and the allocation for primary
 education budgetis projected to increase by about 94 percent over the period 2003-08, from $452.5 million
 in2001-02 to $879.0 millionin2007-08.

  VI (6) TheDevelopment Budget

 Figure 2 shows the proportion o f education Annual Development Program (ADP) going to primary (solid
 line - Y1 axis) and the distribution o f primary education ADP across government, donor and bilateral
 funds (dotted lines -Y2 axis) usinga three year moving average. The pictures tell both an encouraging
 and worrying story. On the one hand -the share o f education sector ADP going to primary education has
 risen substantially -from 45 percent to 64 percent between 1997/98 and 2001/03, reflecting the growing
 importance o f primary education. Furthermore, inreal terms, the total amount o f government ADP to
 primary education has risen from approximately $90 million to $120 million. However, in spite o f this
 increase, the share o f the government allocations as a proportion o f primary education ADP has fallen
 from 73 to 63 percent, while the share o f loans has risen substantially - doublingfrom 13-28 percent within
 the same time frame. Bilateral assistanceinthe form of grants has declinedsomewhat. The rise in
 dependence on donor resources, particularly loan financing, i s likely to have an adverse impact on the
 long-term sustainability o f the system.




                                                      - 70 -

Loan financing is examined further through looking at their disbursement percentages focusing on the ADB
andWorld Bank PEDP Iloans. The picture is fairly educational (Figure 3). The total combined amount o f
these loans was $250 million (over a period o f five years). The chart presents disbursement percentages
annually -from the MDB's perspective and the government's perspective (the government's perspective
accounts for the change inexchange rates, as the government claims that lower disbursement percentages
are as a result o f this). Inthe initial years of PEDP Idisbursement percentages remained very low -below
40 percent for the first three years. An increase inMoPME PIU's capacity - which i s an encouraging sign
- has ledto an increase inthe disbursement percentages inthe latter years o f PEDP I.However, even after
this -by the end o fthe two projects, it is anticipated that about 30% of loan funds will remain undisbursed.




Itis clear that implementing a program approach-as is being envisagedunder PEDPII-will involve
considerable capacity buildingin M o P M E (in financial terms $600 million o f donor finances are expected
to be disbursed over five years). Hence, it will be extremely crucial to be realistic interms o f the capacity
o f MoPME to disburse the large amounts of PEDPII funds - especially in the first couple o f years o f the
program.




                                                     -71  -

 V I (e) Recurrent Expenditures

Annual recurrent expenditures have reached about $225 million andhave remained fairly constant inreal
terms over the past few years ((Figure4). Over the past five years, there has been little variation inthe
distribution o f these expenditures - on average almost 97 percent has been expended on salaries and
benefits leaving only three percent to be spent on supplies and on operations andmaintenance. This is
obviously a serious problem as the comparative lack o f resources going towards materials and maintenance
has serious implications for the quality o f education provided.

 V I (d) Fiscal SustainabilityAnalysis

An assessment of financial sustainability has beenundertaken, comprised of areview of(i) general
                                                                                               the
adequacy o f the existing recurring budget allocation to support delivery o f public primary education
services and (ii)  an analysis o f the recurring cost implications o f PEDPII investments. For purposes o f this
assessment, it has been assumedthat recurrent costs are comprised o f salaries (including wages and
benefits), materials, and repairs and maintenance. The cost o f the stipendprogram has also been included
as a recurring cost, givenits policy implications and its recurring nature. Two scenarios have been
developed to determine the level of recurrent budgetthat will be requiredto support primary education post
PEDPII - a base case scenario and a high growth scenario. Table 7 presents a summary o f the indicative
recurrent budget levels requiredas at FY 2008-09, as estimated under each scenario.


       Recurrent Cost ExpenditureItem                       Base Case               Highcost
                                                           (US$ million)           (US$ million)
       1. Salaries                                              269.1                   273.9
       2. Materials(textbooks, supplementary                      24.9                    27.2
       materials, supplies)
       3. Repairs and Maintenance                                 11.6                    19.4
       4. Stipends *                                             144.0                  144.0
                Total EstimatedRecurrent Budget                 450.2                   464.5


The base case assumes: (i)the existing 9,000 teachers presently allocated for under the development
budget, and an additional 35,000 new teachers are sanctioned, and hired at a Class Isalary level ($28.06
(Tkl,625) basic salary per month, with a total annual salary including benefits equal to approximately
$632.49 (Tk36,lOO) per salaried employee); (ii)       repairs and maintenance are estimated at 2 percent o f the
least cost o f constructing a classroom ($3,000 per classroom); and (iii) cost of implementingthe stipend
                                                                          the
program i s equal to $144 million annually. Underthese assumptions, the total recurrent budget requirement
as the first year (FY 2009-10) following completion o f PEDPII i s inthe general order o f $450.2 million.

The fiscal impact o f the increase in requirement for the recurrent budget under the base case scenario has
been assessed in accordance with the base case macroeconomic projection outlined in Table 5. Under the
base case macroeconomic projection, the government's total primary education allocation for FY 2009- 10
i s estimated at $666 million, o f which the recurrent budget and the development budget are estimated at
$357 million and $309 million respectively. To remain within the total government allocation for primary
education as estimated, Le., $666 million, a requisite shift in allocation from the development budget to the
recurrent budget F Y 2009-10 will be required to meet the $450.2 million recurrent cost. This necessitates,



                                                       - 72 -

inFY 2009-10, an increase inthe recurrent budget by $93 million (including the stipend) transferred from
the development budget. By this shift, the FY 2008-09 allocationfor the recurrent and development budgets
will thenbe $450 million and $216million respectively.

The high cost case assumes: (i) existing 9,000 teachers presently allocated for under the development
                                   the
budget, and an additional 35,000 new teachers are sanctioned, and hired at a salaries at Class I1 level
($32.38 (Tk1,875) salary per month, with a total annual salary including benefits equal to approximately
$719.41 (Tk41,654) per salaried employee); (ii)     materials (predominantly textbooks and supplementary
materials, and supplies) are estimated at a unit cost of $2.88 (Tk167) (120 percent o f the cost o f textbooks,
i.e., $2.40 (Tk140) per enrolled child assuming only 50 percent o f all textbooks are replaced each year); iii)
repairs and maintenance are estimated to equal 2 percent o f the cost o f constructing a classroom ($5,000
per classroom); and (iv) the cost of implementingthe stipend program is equal to $144 million annually.
Under these assumptions, the total recurrent budget requirement as the first year (FY 2009-10) following
completion o f PEDPII is in the general order o f $465 million.The fiscal impact o f the increase in
requirement for the recurrent budget has also been assessed in accordance with the base case
macroeconomic projection outlined in Table 5. Therefore at the end o f PEDPII, Le., FY 2009-10, an
increase in the recumng budget will be required o f an estimated $107 million (including the stipend). To
remain within the total government allocation for primary education as estimated, Le., $666 million, a
requisite shift in allocation from the development budget to the recurring budget will be required.With this
shift, the FY 2009-10 allocation for the recurring budget and the development budgets will then be $465
million, and $201million respectively.




                                                    - 73 -

                               Annex 5: Financial Summary
                   BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II
                                     Years Ending

                         I                     IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                         IYear1   1 Year2   1 Year3    1 Year4   1 Year5   1Year6    1 Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs          80.3     208.9      268.4      278.4    280.6     293.4     151.4
 Recurrent Costs            13.0      34.0       43.6      45.2      45.5      47.7      24.6
Total Project Costs         93.3     242.9      3 12.0     323.6    326.1     341.1     176.0
Total Financing             93.3     242.9      3 12.0     323.6    326.1     341.1     176.0

Financing
  IBRDllDA                   4.2      17.1       27.4       28.3      27.9    29.7       15.4
  Government                75.7      168.7      92.6      199.3    204.6    211.4      108.7
      Central
      Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0
  Co-financiers             13.4      57.1       92.0       96.0      93.6    100.0      51.9
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     93.3     242.9      312.0      323.6     326.1   341.1      176.0
Main assumptions:




                                          - 74-

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                  BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II

Procurement


General Description

Program Arrangements. Asian Development Bank (ADB) leads the program with ten other Development
Partners (DPs) including IDA. The DPs will finance the program largely through pooling o f funds based
on a common procedure. Dependingon the level o f harmonizationachievable, some elements have been
kept outside the common pool and financed bilaterally.

The total value o f the program is USS1.815 billion, of which IDA Credit will finance US$l50 million.
Procurement under the program will mostly involve civil works interms of construction/ renovation of
classroom and office buildings, followed by goods (books, papers, equipment, and materials), and
consultants' services. Civil works for sanitation facilities at the community level under "Component 3 -
Infrastructure Development" will be small and spread over widely dispersedgeographical areas throughout
the country. Services will include, among others, firms and individualconsultants' services for all
components, includingprogram management, operations, monitoring and impact evaluation.

Procurement Responsibility. The Ministryo f Primary and Mass Education (MoPME) will have overall
responsibility for the project, with the Directorate o f Primary Education (DPE) specifically responsible for
procurement management and to ensure that procurement procedures, criteria and documentation, and
timetable agreed with the DPs are in compliance. Execution o f procurement o f goods and consultants'
services contracts will be carried out directly by DPE, assistedby a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The
PCU will hire procurement specialists and other disciplines in order to carry out their supervisory
responsibilities and to assist the other implementingunits. The PCU will organize a procurement team
consisting of at least two procurement specialists using terms o f reference andjob descriptions agreed in
the Action Plan. Civil works contracts will behandledby the Local Government EngineeringDepartment
(LGED).

SummaryofProcurementArrangements

Use of Bank Guidelines. All works, goods, and services underthe program will be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the DPs set forth below. For IDA financedpart (all national
procurement andpart o f ICB goods), the procedures below are consistent with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines and Guidelines on Fiduciary Arrangements for Sectorwide Approaches.

Proceduresfor Pool-Financed Procurement (US$465 million). About 85% o f procurement costs will be
financed from the common pool. All local procurement will be financed from the pool and will follow "The
Public Procurement Regulations 2003 o f the Government o f Bangladesh." The government through gazette
notification mandated the new regulations, effective September 30,2003, prepared under Public
Procurement Reform Project (PPRP) financedby IDA. Local procurement includes all civil works, all
goods (except printingpaper, part o f vehicles/ major computer work stations/ motor cycles1weighing scales
inbulk),andlocalconsultants. All such contracts will be of small value (goods <$200,000, works <
$500,000, local consultants < $200,000) and are unlikely to attract the interest of foreign bidders, and as
such procurement will follow NCB or shopping depending on the type o f contracts.



                                                     - 75 -

Also, the draft standard biddingdocuments for goods andworks, request for proposals for consultants'
services, and procedures for implementation o f regulations have been finalized.

Proceduresfor Non-Pooled Financed Procurement (US$69 million). Goods procured through
international competitive bidding(ICB) and consultants procuredusinginternational advertisement
(international consultants and their local associates, if any) will be financed from outside the common pool.
Most part o f ICB goods (printingpaper- US$46 million)) will be procuredby National Curriculum and
Textbook Board (NCTB) with IDA financing and procurement will follow IDA procedures ("Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995, and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). The remaining ICB goods to be
procuredby DPE inpackages for vehicles, major computer work stations, motor cycles inbulk and
weighingscales, financedby ADB and other DPs (excluding IDA), will follow ADB procedures. Selection
o f internationalconsultants (and their local associates), financed by ADB and other DPs (excluding IDA),
will follow ADB procedures.

 ProcurementManagement Capacity

 Procurement Environment. The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), broadly acceptedby
 the Government inFebruary 2001, statedprocurement as a generic problem inBangladesh. Procurement
 deficiencies include: the absence o f a sound legal framework, protractedbureaucratic procedures allowing
 multi-point rent-seeking, lack o f critical mass o f professionals to manage public procurement, inordinate
 delays in completing the procurement process and ineffective contract administration, and the absence o f
 mechanisms for ensuringtransparency and accountability inpublic procurement.

Procurement Reform Actions. To carry out procurement reform following the CPAR recommendations,
 the Government with IDA'Ssupport is implementingthe PPRP. As part ofthe reform, the Government
 has established a Central Procurement Technical Unit (CPTU) with adequate staffing funded from own
 resources, and prepared a Public Procurement Regulations that has been approved by the government. The
 preparation o f standard biddingdocuments is at the final stage, and the project has provisionfor providing
 extensive procurement training to public sector staff including private participants.

 Following a wide consultation process among the government` private sector stake holders1development
partners, the government mandated the new regulations effective September 30, 2003. The regulations are
based on the UNCITRAL Model and take into account the principles o f harmonization o f requirementso f
 the multilateral development banks for local procurement inborrowingcountries. The new regulations
 include features o f good public procurement practice: (i)   non-discrimination o f biddersbased on
nationality; (ii)effective and wide advertising o fprocurement opportunities; (iii) opening o fbids in
                                                                                     public
 one place; (iv) pre-disclosure o f all relevant information including transparent and clear bid evaluation and
contract awardprocedures; (v) clear accountability for decision making; (vi) mandatory annual
procurement audit (review) for determining compliance with regulations; (vii) sanctions for fraudulent and
con-upt practice; and (viii) review mechanismfor handling bidders protests.




                                                       - 76 -

Capacity Review and Risk Assessment.At the agency level, LGEDwillbe responsible for implementing
all civil works contracts (- 65% o f local procurement), NCTB will be responsible for procurement o f
printingpaper andtextbooks, and DPEfor procurement o f other goods and consultants' services. The
PCUworking closely with functional DPE divisions will be responsible for coordination o fprocurement
under the guidance and supervision o f the Program Steering Committee. Line divisions o f DPE, and
districts will undertake local procurement. Keeping this inmind, the team reviewed the procurement
management capacity o f LGED, DPE and NCTB with a view to: evaluate the capability o f the
implementing agency and o f the adequacy o f procurement systems inplace to administer Bank-financed
procurement, assess the risks that may negatively affect ability o f the agency to carry out the procurement
process and develop an action plan to be implemented as part o f the program to address the deficiencies.
The assessment included organizational aspects, skills o f staff, and applicability o f national procurement
rules at the agency level.

For civil works, LGED has experience in implementing several IDA-financedprojects and has good
knowledge and expertise to carry out project procurement activities. For goods and consultants' services,
DPEhas limited experience with IDA-financedprocurement. DPE, through a Project Management Unit
headed by a Project Director, is currently implementing the IDA-financed Primary Education Development
Project (PEDP), which closed o n December 31,2003. Two designated procurement staff have been
assisting the Project Director incarrying out procurement, who over the periodhas gained some experience
inprocurement. These two staff are likely to be inDPE with the closure ofthe current project. NCTB has
some experience o f procuring ICB goods (papers) inPEDP following IDA procedures. However, since a
large part o f the procurement will follow the new regulations o f the Government, which have not yet been
practiced by either LGED or N C T B or DPE, there are substantial risks associated with procurement.

StrengtheningProcurement Capacity. Under PPRP, there i s provision for procurement training o f about
40 staff o f MoPME and its associated agencies. To mitigate the procurement risks, institutionalize and
strengthen procurement management capacity/ accountability, and ensure advance procurement actions as
part o f the program preparation, the following arrangements have beenmade/agreed:

          DPE by ADB's Loan effectiveness will designate two procurement staff (senior/ mid level) in the
          finance andprocurement unit, responsible for handling its procurement matters throughout the
          program period. Similarly, N C T B will designate at least one procurement staff to handle its
          procurement matters;
          the existing procurement staff inPEDP may continue their services inDPE;
          DPE/ MoPME will be assisted by PCU, and PCU will have two procurement professionals
          (international & national) for the entire project period. P C U procurement professionals will
          disseminate knowledge and help assist DPE ininstitutionalizing procurement capacity;
         All concerned upazila engineers o fLGEDand concerned procurement staff o fDPEandNCTB
          will mandatorily participate inPPRP's procurement training program starting late October 2003.
          MoPME will liaison with IMED so that these staff are included for training inthe first few
         batches;
         DPE/ MOPME/ADB (through Program Liaison Unit)will carry out procurement audit (post
         review) o f a sample o f about 20% contracts from the pooled fund on terms o f reference acceptable
         to the DPs; and
         ADB on behalf o fMOPME/DPE has processed hiringo f PCU consultants, and NCTB has
         finalized the draft biddingdocuments for procurement o f printingpapers (- $12 million) following
         IDAprocedures.




                                                      - 77  -

Fiduciary Rolememedies. IDA and other DPs will take part in supervision missionjointly carried out
with ADB and will have fiduciary role both for pooled and non-pooled contracts. For pool-funded
contracts, post review (by staff) / procurement audit (by private independent firm)will be carried out on a
sample basis (at least 20% o f contracts) with firm's terms o f reference acceptable to the DPs. A DP may
declare ineligible funding/misprocurement o f a contract when such contract has not beenhandledin
accordance with the agreedprocedures. Ifsuch cases occur, each DP after consultation with the other DPs
may take the actions established inits own guidelines whether to cancel from its respective financing an
amount equivalent to the contract amount multipliedby its percentageparticipation inthe pooled fund.

Performance Indicators. A procurement manual will be prepared at program inception. Indicatorswill be
agreed with MOPME/DPE and incorporatedinthe manual to monitor and evaluate the procurement
performance as the programproceeds. Particular attention will bepaid for development o f indicators on (i)
timeliness o f award of contract; (ii)reducing complaints; and (iii) ineligiblefunding/misprocurement.

ProcurementPlanning

An initial draft procurement plan for first year goods, works, and serviceshas beenprepared by the
MinistryofPrimary Education (MoPME /Directorate ofPrimary Education (DPE), identifyingmajor
contracts for pooled andnon-pooled contracts. MOPME/DPE needs to finalize the Plan incorporating init
all packages for the first year. This Plan, which was agreed to during GOB/IDA negotiations, will form the
basis o f all procurement for the first year and the respective implementingagencies (DPEI NCTBi LGED)
will carry out procurement inaccordance with packages statedtherein.

Use of Standard Documents

For pool-funded local procurement, DPE/ NCTBi LGED will use the standard biddingdocuments and
request for proposals developed under PPRP. For goods inICB and for international consultants, the
respective DP's (ADB or IDA) standard biddingdocumentdstandard request for proposals including
standard contract form / standard bid evaluation form / sample form o f evaluationwill be followed.

Post Review

All localprocurement contracts from the common pool, beingof small value (goods <US$200,000,
                                                                                       -
works  -  <US$500,000, local consultants <USS200,000), will be below prior review and be subject to
                                            -
post review. GOBwill carry out the procurement o f such contracts following the agreedprocedures. All
ICB goods contracts and international consultants contracts will be subject to prior review by ADB/IDA,
depending on the financiers.

For compliance with the Bank's procurement procedures, post review will be carried out for pool-funded
contracts that are below the prior review threshold. The program also includes fund for carrying out
procurement audit o fbelow threshold contracts by an independent auditor (with international affiliation).
Such review (ex-post and audit) o f contracts below the threshold will constitute a sample o f about 20% o f
the contracts. ADB, through its Program LiaisonUnit,will also carry out procurement audit with terms of
reference acceptable to the DPs.

ReportingandReviewofProcurementPerformance

Every six months, DPE/ MoPME will submit to DPs including IDA a procurement monitoring report and
contract expenditure and physical progress report as part o f the Financial Monitoring report (FMR). Based


                                                      -78 -

on the review, inconsultationwith the government, DPs may revise the prior review thresholdincludingthe
procurement andselection methods.

Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment -High Risk
Frequency of procurementsupervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurementsupervisionfor post-review/audits)
Procurement methods (Table A)

                          Table A: Program Costs By ProcurementArrangements


                                 Financing Plan                                 US $ Million


         1    Government                                                           1161.00


                                                                                   489.00


     T O T A L                                                                    1,815.00


                           Procurement Arrangements                             US $ Million




     Sub-total                                                          783.00

    ISub-total                                                          69.00                       I
     Procurement under parallel financing by non-pool donors            15.00
     Stipend by Government (outside pool)                               864.00
                                                                                                    i
     Salaries by Government (outside pool)                              80.00
     Taxes and duties                                                   4.00
     Subtotal                                                           966.00

     T O T A L                                                          1,815.00




     Less parallel financing by non-pool donors                         15.00
     Less stipend by Government (outside pool)                          864.00
     Less Salaries by Government (outside pool)                         80.00
     Less taxes and duties                                              4.00
     Subtotal                                                           1,032.00
     Total eligible expenditures from Pool: IDA, ADB, other donors and  783.00
     government




                                                    - 79 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                     BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

The objective of the assessment was to determine whether the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
(MOPME), the Directorate o f Primary Education (DPE) and Local Government and Engineering
Department (LGED), which are responsible for overall implementation, management and monitoring o f
Primary Education Development Project (PEDPII), have acceptable financial management capacity to
support the sub-sector program. While carrying out the assessment, progress o f the DfID-Netherlands
funded on-going public sector Financial Management ReformProgram(FMRP) andexisting FM
framework for the program were reviewed. The assessment also covered review o f (a) existing Financial
Management capacity inthe MOPME and DPE; (b) Treasury and sub-treasury rules, General Financial
rules and Account Code o f the Government; (c) Project Concept Paper (PCP) of the GOB;(d) Project
Accounting Manual; (e) Financial Management Unit Manual; (f) Thirdparty review report o f PEDP; and
(g) Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA).

Based on the findings o f the assessment, a time bound FMImprovement Plan to address existing
weaknesses and further strengthen overall FMhas been agreed with the GOB.

1. FinancialAccountability       -Sector Issues

(0        One o f the key aims o f the proposed program is to develop a coordinated and integrated program
implementation arrangement with the Development Partners (DPs) who have been supporting the primary
education sector following their respective policies andprocedures. This has causedproblem for the GOB
with relatively weak capacity to meet DPs varying and often differingpolices, inmaintaining numerous
PIUs andmultiplebank accounts to implement a single sector. To avoid this, the GOBhas movedtowards a
primary education sub-sector program under the broad education sector by bringingall donors together to
support PEDP 11.


(ii)     The Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA), of the Bank, which was endorsedby
the GOB,indicates that an inadequatecontrol environment, rigidandprocess oriented financial management
system, weak humanresource development, ineffective and inefficient monitoring o fpublic expenditure
against budgetary allocation and lack o f enforcement o f laws, transparency and accountability inthe
management o f the public purse are major impedimentsto sound public financial management. CFAA
recommended significant improvement inthe overall public sector financial management before
programmatic lending i s considered by the donors inthe relevant sector. As this applies inthe proposed
sub-sector program-PEDPII, GOB'Srecent initiatives to redress the weaknesses and improve overall public
sector financial management has also beenreviewed duringthe assessment.

(iii) Inrecentyears,Bangladeshhasundertakenanumberofreformsinitiativestoimprovethefiscal
andeconomic management. Starting from 1999,the GOBintroduced a new computerized budgetary and
expenditure classification system up to divisional levels that helpedinmakingbudgetsand accounts more
useful, particularly for economic analysis This was done under the recently completed DFID funded
"Reform inBudget and Expenditure Control" (RIBEC) project. To keep the momentum o f the on-going
reform initiatives, the GOBhas approved a five-year Financial Management Reform Program (FMRP)
supported by DFID-Netherlands. FMRP aimed at: (a) improving audit reports for parliamentary scrutiny;

(b) developing a regulatory environment for fiscal management,(c) efficient resource utilization reflecting
performance indicators; and (d) buildinga greater capacity o f the Financial Management Academy (FIMA)
for FMtraining.


(iv)     Starting July 12002, offices o f Chief Accounts Officers (CAOs) ineach ministry were created to
report directly to their respective Secretariesand Controller General of Accounts (CGA) who ultimately
reports to the Finance Secretary of Ministry of Finance. FieldAccounting offices have beenreorganized
through the abolition o f 20 Regional Accounts Offices and the creation o f 6 upgraded Divisional
Accounting Offices. Informationgenerated at Thana and District levels is now monitored and consolidated
by these 6 Divisionalofficers and electronically transfer datato the CentralData Processing Unit ofthe
CGA. To assure quality o f accounting data, a Central Reconciliation Unit (CRU) has beenestablished in
the CGA's office. The establishment o f a Public Expenditure Review Commission and its timely review
andrecommendations on wasteful and unproductive expenditure are major steps towards efficient
management o fpublic funds. FollowingGOBrequest to provide assistanceon the basis o f CFAA
recommendations, IDA recently approved an IDF grant - "Strengthening GOB'SFM capacity and Building
Institutional Capacity o f the Office o f Controller and Auditor General." The grant will further complement
GoB's reform initiatives on three key areas: (a) strengthenassets management; (b) computerize project
accounting manual to bring Special Account information into GOBSmainstream accounting system; and (c)
strengthen C & AG's audit tracking and settlement process.


(v)      The Government has agreedto make further policy and operational reforms inthe public sector
FMduring 2004-06 under the recently approved IDA-supported Development Support Credit (DSC).

        Ministry Level: MOPME

(vi)     Inaccordancewith GoB's planto strengthenoverallpublic sector financial management, GOBhas
established Financial Management Unit(FMU) inevery ministry.A Manual issuedby the MOF laid down
FMU's staffing, its roles andresponsibility, administrative and functional relation to the Principal
Accounting Officer (Secretary), Budget and Monitoring Committee, MOF and Directorates. Though FMU
has also beenestablished inthe MOPME, it has not been fully operational and effective, mainly due to
inadequate number o f permanent staff andbeingfully dependenton consultants. The FMRP, which has
adopted a phasedapproach to make FMUeffective and fully operational in all ministries has not taken
MOPME inthe priority list. Duringthe assessment, this has been addressedand agreed that MOPME and
MOF will jointly initiate steps to further strengthenFM capacity inthe MOPME through FMRP.

       Institutional Level: DPE


(vii)    Financial management capacity in the Directorate o f Primary Education (DPE) i s as weak as other
public sector institutions, and it has limitedcapacity to plan, coordinate, monitor, report and manage a
large and complex sub-sector program such as PEDP 11. Previously, DPE managed many donor-funded
projects by establishing project implementation units (PIUs) and met GOBand donors' requirements
through ad-hoc arrangements. To buildFM capacity at the institutional level o f DPE, FMimprovement
Planhas included various actions.




2.       Summary of Risk Analysis




                                                      - 81 -

     Risk                                    RiskRating MitigationMeasures
     Inherent Risk:
     (a) Absence o f sub-sector specific          M         (a) PEDP I1FMManual outlining
         FMFramework;                                             program specific FMpolicy
                                                                  and procedures.

     (b) Weaknesses inthe legislative                       (b) Restructure Audit Committees
         scrutiny process inrespect o f           S               inMOPME. Intensive
         follow up o f audit findings.                            monitoring o fthe progress o f
         Existing system takes indefinite                         audit settlement during
         periods to settle audit                                  supervision missions and
         objections and leaves little                             annual program review.
         scope for corrective action                              Inclusion o f audit inthe annual
         duringprogram                                            program review would receive
         implementation.                                          focused attention o f GOBand
                                                                  Donors and help inreducing
                                                                  the lengthy time for audit
                                                                  settlement.
     ControlRisk:
     Staffing o f the FMUIMOPME:
     (a) (a) FMUwithout appropriate               S               a. MOPME and MOF agreed
         staff and dependency on                                      to address staffing issues in
         consultants leads to risk o f                                the FMUthrough FMRP.
         sustainability and effectiveness.

     SystemRisk:
     (a) Delay inupdating Management              L         (a) FMRP to address the updating.
         Accounting Consolidation                                MOPME and M O F has agreed
         System (MACS) inthe                                     to incorporate updating o f
         MOPME and miniMACS in                                   MACS through FMRP.
         the DPE leading to delay in
         maintenance o f computerized
         sector accounts, timely
         consolidation and report
         generation.

     OverallRiskrating                            M


3.       Strengths and Weaknesses

(0       Strengths. PEDP I1will have the following strengths inthe area o f financial management: (a)
Anti-Corruption strategy indicating actions to deter and identify corrupt practices. The GOBhas agreed in
principle to address any alleged corruption inthe program within the existing framework of the GOB.As
GOBexistingframework involves C & AG and Bureau of Anti Corruption that takes years to resolve
corrupting corruption cases, the DPs have recommended special investigation either by independentprivate
audit firm or C & AG auditor andremedial action within a definedtime frame. This was finalized during
ADB andGOBnegotiations. (b) DPE's experience inprojects financedby donors andtheir FM
requirements;(c) Finance Unitof DPE with staffhaving exposure to financial management policy and
procedures o f WB, ADB andthe GOB,and additional experienced staff from PEDP 1 inthe Finance Unit
o f DPE and (e) bringingDPE's Finance Unitunder the direct supervision o f Program Manager and


                                                   - 82 -

ensuring close collaboration with Program Coordination Unit(PCU).

(io       Weaknesses.


   Weaknesses                                       Resolution
       ~
    (a) Inadequate financial management             (a) Additional 16positionhave been approved
         capacity o f the Finance Unit in DPE,          by the GOBto turnFinanceUnito f DPE into
         lack o f permanent and adequate staff          an effective Financial Management Unitand
         inthe FinanceUnit,includingwritten             integrating it into DPE's organizational
         positiondescriptions and reporting             structure.
         relationship.                              (b) Job description andreporting functions are
                                                        intheprocess of finalization.
                                                    (c) Training Plan i s appropriately budgetedin
                                                        the program andpart ofFMImprovement
                                                        Plan.

   (b) Preparation ofConsolidatedFinancial          (a) CGA will consolidate SOEs within 20 days
         Statements (PFSs) inthe MOPME                  from the endo f previous month andprovide
         covering all sector expenditure  -             copy to FMUinMOPME.
         revenueand development may be              (b) DPE will provide copy o f financial reports
         delayed due to delay receipts o f SOEs         to FMUwithin 20 days from the endo f
         from various agencies, i.e CGA, DPE.           previous month.



   (c) Inadequate monitoring o f Financial          (a) Draft Financial reports will be discussed
         reports in DPE leading to delay in              and cleared by the PCU and Technical
         realistic cash forecast, yearly budget          Support Unitsbefore finalizing and
         estimates and review o f performance            submission to PLU.
         indicators.



4.        Implementing Entities : MOPME & DPE

(i) Duringimplementation,MOPMEwillhaveoverallresponsibilityfortheprimaryeducationpolicy,
deliverables for the four key components, implementation o f Financial Management Improvement Plan and
ensuring that FMarrangements work satisfactorily. The four components are: (a) Quality Improvement
through Institutional Development (b) Quality Improvement in School and Classroom (c) Quality
Improvement through Infrastructure Development; and (d) ImprovedAccess to Quality Schooling.

(ii) DPEwillbethekeyExecutingAgency(EA)underwhichaProgramCoordinationUnit(PCU)
and four line directors, with the support o f four Technical Support Teams (TST) will be responsible for
coordination, monitoringand evaluation o f the progress o f PEDPII implementation.

          Implementation arrangement: LGED

(iii)     Local Government and EngineeringDepartment (LGED) will be responsible for implementation o f
the civil work under the program and will work inclose collaboration with DPE. LGED,being an



                                                     - 83 -

implementingagency ofmanyIDA assistedprojects is well versedwith the Bank's financial management
policies and has beenexposed to Bank's disbursementprocedures. For the two on going projects, one o f
them functioning onreport baseddisbursement,LGEDhas maintaineda good track record inmanaging
project funds and preparing accurate financial reports. LGEDhas recently developed a Financial
Management System Software to track, record and analyze funds that it handles invarious locations. Audit
reports for on-going as well as closed projects have been submittedin a timely manner.

5.       Funds Flow Arrangements

(i) InordertoavoidmultiplebankaccountsandsupporttheprogramthroughtheexistingTreasury
System without any special account, various options were explored. The key two options were (a) donors
funds (pooled and non-pooled) to be deposited into one common USD account of the GOBandwithdrawals
of funds for all common expenditure can be made from another Taka account and (b) GOBpre-finance for
local program expenditure through their treasury and receive reimbursement o f donors' share. None of the
options were finally agreed as (a) ADB policy requires that ADB loan and ADB managed grant funds will
have to be maintained separately inthe recipient country (b) GOBis unable to pre-finance local expenditure
o f donors' share and take reimbursement. Finally, it was agreedthat the GOBwill maintain two separate
USDaccountsfor ADB loan and ADB managedgrant funds and one for IDA credit for donors
contribution inUS dollar. A common pool Taka Account will be maintainedinthe same bank into which
funds will be transferred from the three USD accounts to make common program expenditures inlocal
currency.


(ii)     PEDP I1has three types o f funding: (a) co-financing by major development partners (pooled
funding), (b) bi-lateral funding (non-pooled funding), and (c) parallel financing for non-pooledfinanced
procurement of goods and services for consultants advertised intemationally.

GOBFunding

(iii) BasedonannualperformancereviewofPEDP11,MOPMEandDPs,byApril15thofeachyear,
will estimate respective financing share for the following fiscal year. The GOBwill allocate counterpart
funds for the program on the basis o f agreedAnnual Operational Plan, approve Annual Development Plan
(ADP) by June 30 and release funds to the program in four tranches i.e. by September, December, March
and June through the treasury system. The earmarked funds for the sector will be available to the MOPME
for all quarters except June quarter for which MOF prior clearance will be required.

Pooled Funding

(iv)     For ADB funds and ADB-managed co-financing grant funds, money will be advanced and
deposited intwo separate US Dollar ImprestAccounts. IDA money will be advanced and deposited ina US
Dollar Special Accounts. The three US dollar accounts will be heldina commercial bank, on terms and
conditions acceptableto ADB and IDA. DPE will draw down from the USD accounts to the common pool
Taka account on the basis o f its fund requirementsand as per the agreed financing percentage among the
DPs. Common program expenditure (local expenditure) will be paid out o f the common pool Taka
Account.


(v)      The three USD accounts and one Taka Account will be operated by the DPE, with the Program
Director and Joint Program Director o f DPE beingthe authorized signatories for issuingchecks, transfer o f
funds from Dollar accounts to Taka Account (Pool Account) and making quarterly disbursementrequest to
the Program Liaison Unit (PLU) o f ADB.




                                                     - 84 -

Non Pooled Funding

(vi)     Three DPs (JICA, AusAid andUNICEF) will make funds availableto the programby making
directpayment to the contractors, suppliers andconsultantsunderbi-lateralagreementswith the
Government.

Parallel Funding

(vii)    Goods and servicesprocuredunder ICB contracts will be financedoutside the poolaccount. ADB
andIDA will makedirectpaymentfor ICB contractsfollowingrespectiveprocurementprocedures.

Fundingfrom DPE to LGED, PTI, NAPE and NCTB

(viii)   PEDPI1will support civil work andother expendituresat District andUpazilas levels to be
implementedby LGED.No donors funds will be disbursedfrom DPEto Districts or Upazilalevels. Forthe
part o fthe programto be executedby LGED,DPEwill advancefunds to LGED on the basis of funds
requirementsreceivedfrom LGED andLGEDwill submit a monthly statement of accountto DPEfor the
expenditure incurredonthe program.DPEwill reimburseLGED within 7 days ofreceivingSOEs.

(ix)     DPEwill pay to contractorsat various locations against contractual agreementandapprovedbills
by the PTI, NAPE andNCTB. Incase oftraining, organizedby PTIandNAPE, advancemaybe paidto
them onthe basis of approvedtrainingprogram.The advancesmustbe accountedfor within sevenworking
days on completionoftrainings. No further advancewill be givenuntil the previous advances are fully
accountedfor andinformationincludingSOEs are submittedto DPE.

6.       Co-Financing and Financing Arrangements

(i)      Annual ProgramReview will determineyearly donorsyearly contributionto PEDP11. Legal
agreements betweenADB andbilateraldonorswill dictate terms andconditions of co-financing
arrangementsfor donor funds managedby ADB. Annual financingpercentagefor ADB manageddonors
funds will vary dependingupon availabilityof donors funds with ADB at an agreeddate. DPs will not be
able to participateinaparticularyear ifhnds are not receivedby ADB at the time of determining the
financingpercentage.The shortfallwill be accountedfor inthe following years financingplanandthe
percentageswill be adjustedaccordingly.


(ii)     There will be a separate MOUbetweenADB andWB outliningcommonimplementation
arrangementsandADB's fiduciaryrole inmanagingIDA fund. There will be a Code of Conduct (COC)
amongPEDPI1Consortiummemberswhichoutlines guidingprinciplesto be followedby all DPs during
programimplementation. However, respectiveloadcreditagreement betweenGovernment,ADB andIDA
will havereference to COC.

7.       Performance Based Financing (PBF)

In order to promoteachievementso fkey outcomes of PEDP11, it was agreedthat up to 25 % o fthe pooled
funds will be heldback from next year's allocationincase of unsatisfactory performance, measuredby on
predeterminedmilestones duringthe annualprogramreview.ParticipatingDPs annual contributionto the
programwill be basedon remaining75% of the pooledfunds. The annual operationalplanfor the
subsequent year will include the activitieslinkedto reforms whichhavebeenaccomplishedso far. Funding
for activitieslinkedto reformtriggers which are not accomplishedwill not be cancelled.The release o f


                                                   - 85 -

withhold withheld fundwill be releaseds will be made on the on the basis o f satisfactory performance o f
agreed reforms. Milestones will be adjusted inaccordanceto program progress.

8.        Budgeting and Accounting

(i)       A three year budget cycle reflecting GOB'S3 year rollingplan and its linkages to MediumTerm
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) has beenprepared. Based on this, the MOPME will share with DPs, by
March 3 1each year, an Annual Operational Plan (AOP) for the following year indicating fully costed
program activities, output and performance targets. MOPME's Budget and MonitoringCommittee and
DPE will be involved inprocessing, monitoring and reporting onbudget.

(ii) UntilconsolidationofvariousGOBpolicyandprocedurestomakeasectorspecificFMManual,
the Accounts Code, the Treasury Rules and General Financial Rules ofthe Government will form the basis
for accounting and financial control inMOPME and DPE. Books o f accounts will be maintained on cash
basis and using double-entry bookkeepingprinciples.


(iii)     The FMManual will only draw from the existing systems of GOB.The existing systems are
considered adequate for the program.


(iv)     The project accounts will be maintained initially using existing MACs software. It will undergo
further changes duringprogram implementation. It has beenagreedthat updating or changes inMACS in
the DPE and MOPME will be done through FMRP. By December 2003, agreement between MOPME,
M O and DFIDwill be completed for inclusion o f updating the software along with other FMissues inthe
FMRP.

9.       Internal Controls

(d)      Govt's existing financial power, authority and payment responsibility outlined inthe project
Accounting Manual and General Financialrules will be followed. Giventhe size and nature o f the program
and depending uponimplementationexperience, consideration will be giveniffurther delegation, special
authorities, enhancement o f present approval limit at various levels etc. The adequacy o f control functions
will bepart of first yearjoint annual programreview of the Gob GOBand DPs and will also be followed
up insubsequentannual review.


(i)       There are clear guidelinesfor authorization and approval of financial transactions at the Secretary
(MOPME) and Program Director (DPE) levels. DPE will execute transactions with procurementprocess
beingdone by Procurement Staff while the Finance Unitwill be responsible for payment, recording and
reporting.

(iii Inviewoflargevolumeoftransactionsandpaymenttonumerouslocationsandagencies,
Finance Unit will develop payment processing time (service standards). This will be part o f FM
performance indicators and will be reviewedduring annual programreview.

By 15thofthe following month, Finance Unitwill close its accounts andreconcile its balances with Bank
statement and books of accounts. Timely reconciliation will be part of FMperformance indicators.


(vi)     DPE will be responsible to maintain an Asset Management systemfor assets procured under the
program that would include assets classes, custody and security o f assets, anddisposal policy, and annual
verification procedures. Annual audit report will include audit comments on safeguards over assets.


                                                    - 86 -

10.      Staffing

         DPE
(i)      Finance Unit inDPE i s headedby a Director and is assistedby a DeputyDirector, two Assistant
Directors, two Accountants, an Audit Liaise Officer and a Computer Operator. DuringPEDP I
implementation, these staff have familiarized themselves with Financial management policy and procedures
of the Govt andDonors. The current staff i s considered adequate for the initial six months. Inaddition, 16
additional positions have been created and approved by the GOB.O fthese, three key position will be on
deputation and the rest will be on direct recruitment. Staff recruitment along withjob description, duties
and line of supervision will be completed by June, 2004. Provisionfor staff training is includedinthe PCP
and FMImprovement plan. Financial Management Academy (FIMA)will be the focal point for FM
training.

(ii) TohelptheFinanceUnitinDPEtodeviseasystemforensuringthattheunitisabletocarryout
all key financial management functions at project start up, ADB suggested, which the GOB agreedto
appoint an intemational consultant and a national consultant (Finance and Budgeting) by June 2004. The
intemational consultant will be recruited for one year while the national consultant will work during full
duration o f PEDP 11.The broad objective o f the consultants work will be to transform the existingfinancial
management function o f the Finance Unit in DPE into a full capacity Financial Management Unit.

         MOPME
(iii)    The Financial Management Unitinthe MOPME is currently managedby consultants. Staff inthe
FMUofMOPMEwill be as per GOBpolicy that requires a senior and fulltime staff at the Joint Secretary
level to head the FMUwith additional support staff. It has been agreedthat staffing inFMU will be
addressedthrough FMRP. By September 30,2003, agreement between MOF, MOPME and DFIDwill be
completed to include staffing issue o f FMUinthe FMRP.Annual Operational Plan o f PEDP I1will
monitor progress on FMUstaffing as well as its effective operation.

(iv)     As a transitional arrangement, ADB suggestedfor an International Technical Advisor (TA)
position for two and half years for developing an overall financial management framework for the sector
and strengthening MOPME's FM capacity. PEDP I1will support the TA position which the GOBagreedto
appoint by June 2004.

11.      Financial Reporting and Monitoring

(i) AsinglesetofFinancialMonitoringReports(FMRs)willbeusedfortheprogram.Asetofthese
reports have been agreedwith the DPs and GOB.The contents o f the FMRs would undergo changes during
program implementation. On a quarterly basis, DPE will submit these reports to the PLU o f ADB within
45 days of the end o f each quarter.


(ii)     Finance Unito f DPE will be responsible for consolidatingfinancial information from all cost
centers after scrutiny o f financial information, monitoring actual expenditure against forecast and
coordinating with other institutions (PTI, NAPE, NCTB, LGED) and the FMUo f the MOPME for
reconciliation.


(iii)    Quarterly Financial Statements (FMRs) would include consolidation o f GOB'Smonthly financial
statements into quarterly Sources and Uses o f Funds along with Uses o f funds by project
componentlactivities, Dollar Special Accounts Statements, Taka Account (Pool Account) Activity


                                                    - 87 -

Statement;
(iv)     QuarterlyProgramPromessReportwouldinclude Output MonitoringReports indicating
quarterlyfinancial or physicalprogressofpredeterminedindicators ofkeyprogramactivities;


(VI      OuarterlvProcurementMonitoringReportswouldinclude Summary Statementof expenditure
from PoolAccount for contracts not subjectto priorreview;


(vi)    Annual Consolidated Financial Statements which will include DPs and GOBfunds usage for the
         sectorwill bepreparedby the FMUofthe MOPMEon which annual audit will be carried out.

12.      Information Systems

(i)      The exact information flow betweenDPEandNAPE,NCTB, PTIandLGEDhas alreadybeen
identified.By 15thof the followingmonth, these entities will submit a monthlyexpenditurestatement
(SOE) to DPE.


(ii)     The MOPMEandthe DPEhaveexposure to ManagementAccountingConsolidationSystem
(MACS) andminiMACS to keeptrack of expenditure. This systemgenerates various projectmanagement
reportsandis currentlybeingusedby Implementation, MonitoringandEvaluationDepartment(IMED) of
the PlanningMinistry andADP for budgetary allocation. DPEwill initially use the existingcomputerized
systemto maintainaccounts andgeneratefinancial reports.Further streamliningof computerizationwill be
done throughFMRPwith due considerationto compatibilityof software beingcurrentlyusedinDPEand
MOPME.

13.      Fiduciary Role, Coordination and Supervision

(i)      Underthe oversight andmanagementofADB, a PEDPI1LiaisonUnit (PLU) will guide, supervise
andmonitorall majorissues affectingfinancial managementof PEDP11. A GovernanceandFinancial
Management Specialist will be appointedinthe PLUto beprimarilyresponsiblefor guidingand
monitoringPEDPI1FMwork includingmonitoringofFMimprovementplan. DPs will periodicallyreview
PLUfunctioningto ensure that it operates effectivelyas per agreedTOR and any identifiedweakness are
addressedina timely manner. An indicativeTOR for PLUandits experts havebeenprepared.


(ii)     The keyFMfiduciarywork for whichPLUwill be responsible are (a) reviewWithdrawal
Applicationsalongwith FMRsand approve eligibleexpenditure (b) bringimmediatelyany error or
ineligibleexpenditureto the attentionof DPE (c) share copies of audit reportwith DPs includingIDA and
provideits reactionsto GOBafter discussingthe audit ina consortium meeting.Any seriousissues raised
by annual, specialor procurement audit will be immediatelytakenup andwill benotifiedto the GOBfor
actionwithin a time-frame (d) any allegationof corruptionwill be dealt with by ADB's Anti-Corruption
Unit inaccordancewith its procedures (e) facilitate joint supervisionmissionsof DPs andsummarize
missionfindingsand(0monitorspecific FMactions that may require intensive follow up includingreview
o f FMperformanceindicators.

14. FinancialManagement Improvement Plan

The Governmentandthe DPshaveagreedon a time-boundFMimprovementplanto address weaknesses
identifiedinthe FMassessment andto further strengthenFMcapacity inDPEand MOPME.Below is the
FMImprovementPlan:




                                                   - 88 -

     Actions/Activities                                          Responsibilities  Completion
     At the Institution Level-Strengthen FM capacity in
     DPE :                                                       MoPMElDPE         June 2004
         Additional Staff inthe FinanceUnit with written
         position description,duties and lines of supervision.
         (The currentcomplement o f staff is considered
         adequate for the initial six months)                    MoPMElDPE         June 2004
         Financial consultants to support PCUinDPE in
         establishingsystems                                     MoPMElFIMA        June 2004
         Training of the Financestaff
     At the sub-sector Level- Develop PEDP 11FM
    framework :                                                  MoPME             June 2004
         F MManual for the program- which draws and
         collates information from the existing systems o f GOB.
         The FM manual will only draw from the existing
         systems o f GOB. (The existing systems are considered
         adequate for the program)                               M oPMEICAG        June 2004
         Auditors training on key elements of sub-sector

     At the Ministry/country level: Strengthen FM Capacity
     in the MoPME :
         Agreement betweenMoPME, MoF and DfIDon                  MoPMElMOF         Done
         implementationof F Mimprovementplan as articulated
         inDfID-fundedFinancialManagement ReformProject
         (FMRP) inMoPME.
         Secretary, MoPME to headBudgetandMonitoring             MoPME             March2004
         Committee.
         Formationof Audit Committee for follow up on audit
         findings headedby Additional Secretaryand consisting    MoPME             March2004
         of members from MoPME and DPE.
         Financialconsultants to support settingup systems in    MoPME             June 2004
         FMUof MoPME
         Appointment of a firm of internal auditorswith TOR
         satisfactoryto all the DPs.                             MoPME             June 2004


15. Lesson Learned PEDP 1
                       -

(i)      With the broad objective o fbuildingcapacity, the Govt through PEDP Iestablished a Finance Unit
inDPEandappointed six finance staff. The objective of establishing the finance unitinDPEis to build
FMcapacity at the Instutional level andto retainthe technical expertise after project completion. The
Bank,usingPHRDgrant, has given Technical Assistance (TA) to develop computerizedaccounting system
inthe ProjectImplementation-MonitoringUnit(PIMU)ofPEDP I.


(ii) DuringPEDPIimplementation, neithertheFinanceUnitinDPEnorcomputerizedprojectFM
system have operationally been effective as was planned. This is due to: (i)  Finance Unitinitially started
working inthe PIMUwithout clear guidance from project management (ii)         DPE's failure to include FM
unit inthe mainorganizational structure once it movedfrom PIMUafter two years of project
implementationand (iviii) frequent change o f Project Directors.


(iii)    Inadditionto addressing F Missues duringsupervisionmissions, a special FMreview was
conducted. Based on FMreview recommendations, a special audit by C & AG was carried out. Special



                                                      - 89  -

audit identifiedfinancial irregularitiesworthUSD $ 73,219 whichwas subsequentlyclaimedand refunded
to the Bank..


(iv)      Basedon the experience,projectizedFM systemandcomputerizationhavebeenavoidedinthe
follow on PEDP11.No separate FinanceUnit andprojectstaff havebeenincorporatedinthe program
implementationarrangements.The frequent change of PDwill notbe experiencedinthis projectas no GOB
staff at this levelwill be recruitedin DPE on deputation. The proposedaudit TOR with C & AG,
restructuringof audit committee andmakingaudit status as animportantpart of annualprogramreview of
the DPs and GOBwill greatly contribute to qualityaudit andtimely settlement thanthe longer time required
for audit settlement inPEDPI.     Also, time boundFMImprovementplanfor PEDPI1havebeenagreed
upfrontwith the GOB,the progressofwhichwill be monitoredby all DPs duringannual programreviewof
PEDP 11.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit:
    0,   Internal audit inMOPME is almost non-existent. It has beencarriedout as andwhen necessaryby
         Govt. auditor. It has been agreed that MOPME will engage a firm with TOR satisfactory to the
         DPs to carry out halfyearly internalaudit for the program. The firm of auditors is expectedto be
         inplaceby June 30, 2004 and will be appointed for first two years. Dependinguponperformance
         o f the auditor, either the same or new auditor will be appointed for subsequent years. MOPME
         will share internal audit report with DPs includingactions on audit findings within three months of
         the completionof the audit.

External Audit:
         The annual consolidatedfinancial statementswill be auditedby the ComptrollerandAuditor
         Generalof Bangladesh.The audit reportwill be submittedto the Project LiaisonUnit(PLU) ofthe
         donor consortiumwithin six months of the endof each fiscal year. Agreement will be reachedwith
         C & AG for a commonaudit TOR whichwill meet the requirementofthe Govemmentandthe
         DPs.
         As substantialamount ofprogramallocation will be executedby LGED whichwill be includedin
         the audit.
         PLUwill reviewthe audit report, share it with the DPs andprovidecommentsto MOPME.Any
         audit findingsrelatedto corrupt practiceswill be dealt with by ADB's Anti-corruptionUnitin
         accordancewith its procedures.
         Auditors trainingon the programspecificswill be critical for effectiveaudit under sector approach.
         Ithas agreedthat the programwill support auditors' trainingandwill be part of overallFM
         ImprovementPlan.
         An audit committee inthe MOPMEwill follow up on audit findings.Agreementhasbeenreached
         that the MOPME,by December2003 will form an audit committee headedby Secretary, DG-DPE
         and othermembersfrom the ministryandDPE.
         Unless situationrequiresfor any special or additionalaudit (stipend or performance),no other
         audit to meetbi-lateraldonors requirementswill be carried out. Additionalaudit will be subjectto
         all DPs concurrence andagreedTOR.
         All previous audit reports of IDA assistedPEDPIhavebeenreceivedintime The pending
         observations whichmainlyrelate to non-compliancewith GOBrules andpolicy suchas taxNat
         was not deducted,violationofPPprovision,single source selection methodnot acceptable- will be
         resolvedthrough an Action Plan. ARCS ofthe WB will keep track of the following audit for PEDP
         11:


                                                    -90 -

         ImplementingAgency            Audit                             Auditors
         DPE/MOPME                     Program Financial Statements      Government auditor (C & AG)


3. DisbursementArrangements
The DPE will maintain three separate US Dollar Accounts ina nationalised commercial bank for ADB
loan and ADB managed co-financing grant funds and IDA credit. The initial deposit to the US dollar
accounts will be equivalent o f six months estimated expenditure. DPE will draw down from the USD
Accounts to a common pool Taka Account on the basis o f it funds requirements and as per the agreed
financing percentage among the DPs. Taka Account (Pool Account) will be maintainedin the same
commercial bank.

Traditional disbursement (SOE-based) methodwill be followed. The option to switch over to report-based
disbursementmethodwill be considered at the request of GOB, and ifthere is agreementbetweenIDA and
ADB for suchconversion. Disbursementrequests will be submitted to the PLUofADB. Onreview of
withdrawal application, PLU will request ADB to releasethe share o f ADB and ADB managed donor
funds and advise IDA to release its share of eligible expenditureinthe respective US Dollar accounts. In
case o f any ineligible expenditure beingmade out of the pool account, PLU will request MOPME to refund
the amount which will be creditedto the three USD accountsas per agreedpercentageof financing.

The table belowindicatesthe financing Dlanof the Drogram:
                                        U L              U




   Financing Plan                                                                         US$Million

           Government                                                                       1,161.OO




   TOTAL PEDP I1Resources:                                                                  1,815.00
   Less:
   ICB goods and international consultants (non-pool)                                         69.00
   Parallel financing by non-pooled donors                                                    15.00
   Stipend by Government (outside pool)                                                      864.00
   Salaries by Government (outside pool)                                                      80.00
   Taxes and duties                                                                           4.00
   Subtotal                                                                                 1,032.00
   Total eligible expenditures (Local): IDA, ADB, other pooled funds (donors)                783.00
   and government




                                                    - 91-

         Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
       Disbursementunder the DrODOSedcredit will be made as indicatedin the table below.
                     Category of Expenditure                                              Allocation (UD $M)                                                                           Percentageof Financing
                     Local Expenditure o f the                                            104.00                                                                                       13.3% (13.3% of eligible
                     program                                                                                                                                                           expenditure $783.00)
                     I C B (Goods) under non-                                             46.00                                                                                        100% (100% o f eligible
                     pool financing.                                                                                                                                                   foreign expenditures
                                                                                                                                                                                       ($150.00-$104.00).
                     Total:                                                               150.00

       Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs): The program will use Report Based Disbursement.

       SpecialAccount:
                          0             For utilization o f IDA'S share o f program expenditures, DPE will open and maintain a U S
                                        Dollar Special Account in the commercial Bank, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
                                        The initial deposit to U S Dollar Special Account will be US $ 8.6 million which i s equivalent
                                        to six months anticipated expenditures.

                                                           BANGLADESH:SECOND PRIMARYEDUCATION DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM
                                                                                                                                      FUNDFLOWS
........                                                   ........................                                                                                                                 ..........                                              ..................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I, )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :

                           Parallel Funding                                                                                                           ........................................ ..,..i ParallelFunding                                     ; ;            Non-Pooled                            i
                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..                                                                        Funding                           [
...........................................................                                                                                                                                         .                                                      i j
                                                                                      ......................................................................................................            ................................................     ................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                               8     :.,                      ...........................   :                                                  :




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNICEF,JICA,




          Direct                                                                       11         Common PoolTaka BankAccount2                                                                II                                             Direct
      Payment                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Payment                                                       Direct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Paymen
                                                                                                                                        1
   I                                                                                                 CommonProgramExpenditure5                                                                I
                            Y                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                ICBContracts(Goodsand
                                  Services)B                                            (works,goods)                                                           Consultants,
 ...............................................................................                                       I I                                I /                                           ..............................................         ...........................................

       1,          Donors'contribution in USD(ADB,ADB managedCo-FinancedFundand WB) to three USDbankaccounts,asper annually agreedfinancing
                  percentageamongDPs.
      2.           Transfer from USDaccount to a CommonPool Taka Account on the basis ofEA'S funding requirements, basedon aproportional withdrawal
                   from the three accounts
      3.          ADB's ICBprocurement guidelinewill be followed.
      4.           IDA ICBprocurementguidelinewill be followed.

      5.          For all commonprogramexpenditure, govemmentprocurementguidelines will be followed.




                                                                                                                                    - 92 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                  BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II




1 Appraisal mission departure                 I        08/20/2003             I     0812112003          I
  Negotiations                                         11/12/2003                    12/15/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                        0311512004


Prepared by:
MinistryofPrimary andMass Education (MoPME)

Preparationassistance:
ADB Technical Assistance Grant, and other DevelopmentPartners, includingIDA


           Name                                        Speciality
  Hena G. Mukherjee                    Task Team Leader, Lead Education Specialist
  Irajen Appasamy                      Operations Officer
 Amit Dar                              Sr. Economist
  MahmudulAlam                         Sr. Education Economist
 Zafrul Islam                          Sr. Procurement Specialist
  Suraiya Zannath                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
 Mohammad Sayeed                       DisbursementOfficer
 Nilufar Ahmad                         Sr. Environmental Specialist
   Paul J. Martin                      Sr. Envronmental Specialist
 Kishor Uprety                         Sr.Counse1
  Ivonna Kratynski                     Sr. Finance Officer
  Rajat Narula                         Finance Officer
  Shobhana Sosale                      Operations Officer (ECHSD)
  Varun Gauri                          Economist (DECRG)
 Warren Waters                         Peer Reviewer (Sr. Social Scientist, SASES)
  Robin Horn                           Peer ReviewerQER Panel Chairman (Sr. Education Specialist, LCHSE)
  Ernest0 Cuadra                       Peer ReviewerQER Panel Member (Lead Education Specialist, ECSHD)
 Alan Carroll                          Peer ReviewerQER Panel Member (Operations Adviser, OPCIL)
 Bee Ean Gooi                          Peer ReviewerQER Panel Member (Sr. Operations Officer, OPCIL)
 Fatema Rosalynn Khan                  Research Assistant
 Bertha Mburugu                        Program Assistant
 Nazma Sultana                         Program Assistant




                                                -93  -

Consultants:
H o n Chan Chai     M&E Specialist
Beatrice Avalos     Teacher Education Specialist
PhilipCohen         Textbook Specialist
Mokhlesur Rahman    Physical Infrastructure Specialist
Maria E.Anderson    Program Implementation Plan Grants Specialist




                            - 94 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                 BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II


A. Project ImplementationPlan
    Government o f Bangladesh. Annual .Operational Plan (Three Years starting FY2004).

B. Bank Staff Assessments
    World Bank. Bangladesh Education Sector Review, 2000.

    World Bank. Bangladesh Country Assistance Strategy (Presentedto the Board on December 19,
    2002).

    World Bank. Poverty inBangladesh: Building on Progress, 2002.

    World Bank. Bangladesh Public Expenditure Review, 2002.

    World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy, 2000

    World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, 2003

C. Other

    Government o f Bangladesh. Macro Plan for SecondPhase o f Primary Education Development
    (PEDPII), October 2001 (Background documents to the Macro Plan are also available).

    Govemment o f Bangladesh. InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper, March 2003.

    Government of Bangladesh. Education for All: National Plan off Action 2001-15, 2003

    Asian Development Bank, Report and Recommendations of the President, Second Primary Education
    Development Program, September 2003

    PEDP IAppraisal, Supervision and Mid-termReview Reports

*Including electronic files




                                               - 95 -

                                              Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                               BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II
                                                                 27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                                            Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                     and actual
                                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO53578      2003 Social Investment Program Project                  0.00       18.24                  0.00    0.00    18.00         0.75      0.00

PO62916      2003 Central Bank Strengthening Project                 0.00      37.00                   0.00    0.00    37.53         7.00      0.00

PO71435      2003 Rural Transport Improvement Project                0.00      190.00                  0.00    0.00   190.40         1.oo      0.00

PO81849      2003 BD: Telecommunications Technical Assist.           0.00        9.12                  0.00    0.00      9.20        0.05      0.00

PO75016      2002 Public Procurement Reform Project                  0.00       4.50                   0.00    0.00      3.37        0.82      0.00

PO44876      2002 Female Secondary School ASSIS.II                   0.00      120.90                  0.00    0.00    98.24         9.29      0.00

PO74731      2002 Financial Services for the Poorest                 0.00        5.00                  0.00    0.00      4.68        0.98      0.00

PO71794      2002 Rural Elect. Renewable Energy Dev.                 0.00      190.98                  0.00    0.00   207.34        61.35      0.00

PO74040      2002 Renewable Energy Development                       0.00        0.00                  8.20    0.00      8.60        0.57      0.00

PO44810      2001 Legal 8 Judicial Capacity Building                 0.00      30.60                   0.00    0.04    28.08        10.00      0.00

PO50752      2001 Post-Literacy 8 Continuing Education               0.00      53.30                   0.00    0.00    46.56         5.05      0.00

PO57833      2001 Air Quality Management Project                     0.00        4.71                  0.00    0.00      3.43        3.71      0.00

PO59143      2001 Microfinance II                                    0.00      151.00                  0.00    0.00    41.06        -2.36      0.00

PO69933      2001 HIWAIDS Prevention                                 0.00      40.00                   0.00   21.98     17.68       23.37      -0.46

PO50751      2000 National Nutrition Program                         0.00      92.00                   0.00   24.02    59.14        51.54      0.00

PO49587      2000 Aquatic Biodiversity Conservation                  0.00        0.00                  5.00     1.25     2.25        4.43       1.87

PO09468      2000 Fourth Fisheries                                   0.00      28.00                   5.00    8.25     11.87       19.18       1.58

PO44811      2000 Financial Institutions Development                 0.00      46.90                   0.00    0.00     11.42       20.98       0.00

PO37294      1999 Third Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance            0.00      273.00                  0.00    0.00    121.30      113.62     13.88

PO09524      1999 Dhaka Urban Transport                              0.00      177.00                  0.00    64.89   51.43       118.60     22.81

PO41887      1999 Municipal Services                                 0.00      138.60                  0.00    0.00    90.11        15.55       0.00

PO50745      1999 Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply                    0.00       32.40                  0.00    4.35     17.28       21.17       0.00

PO49790      1999 Export Diversification                             0.00       32.00                  0.00     0.00     3.35        3.85       0.00

PO37857      1998 Health and Population Program                      0.00      250.00                  0.00     0.78    31.61       34.66       0.00

PO09550      1998 Primary Education Development                      0.00      150.00                  0.00    43.48    18.23       60.21     33.85

PO44789      1998 Private Sector Infrastructure Dev                  0.00      235.00                  0.00     0.00   140.89      148.74       0.00

                                                          Total:    0.00     2310.25                18.20    169.05   1273.02      734.11      73.53




                                                                    - 96 -

                                      BANGLADESH
                                    STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                       June 30 2003
                                                -
                                     InMillions USDollars


                                                     Committed                      Disbursed
                                                    IFC                           IFC

FYApproval    Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic

1997          DBH                             0.00    0.65     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.65    0.00  0.00
1991          Dynamic Textile                 1.86    0.00     0.00    1.48   1.86  0.00    0.00   1.48
1998          GrameenPhone                   10.00    1.58     0.00    0.00  10.00   1.58   0.00  0.00
1985195       IDLC                            0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00
1980198       IPDC                            6.88    0.00     0.00    0.00   6.88  0.00    0.00  0.00
1998          Khulna                         15.60    0.00     0.00   19.19  15.60  0.00    0.00  19.19
1998          LafargelSuma                   35.00   10.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  10.00   0.00  0.00
2003          RAK Ceramics                   12.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   8.50  0.00    0.00  0.00
2000          Scancem                        10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00  10.00  0.00    0.00  0.00

                    Total Portfolio:         91.34   12.23      0.00  20.67  52.84  12.23    0.00 20.67



                                                  Amrovals PendingCommitment

FY Approval   Company                           Loan     Equity     Quasi   Partic
2001          BRACBank                           0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          DhakaWestin                        0.01      0.00     0.00     0.00
1998          Khulna                             0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          ULC - Bangladesh                   0.01      0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          USPCL                              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00

              Total PendingCommitment:           0.01      0.00     0.01     0.00




                                            - 97 -

                                              Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                         BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project I1

 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                South   Low-
                                                     Bangladesh    Asia  income     1 Developmentdlamond`
 2002                                                                               I
 Population, mid-year (millions)                          135.7    1,401   2,495                   Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          380     460     430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                            51.1    640    1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                            T
                                                                                    ~




 Population (%)                                              1.7     1.8     1.9
 Labor force (%)                                             2.8     2.3     2.3      GNI
                                                                                      per
Mostrecent estimate (latest year available, 1996.02)                                  capita
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)             34
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                      26      28       30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                              62      63       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                      52      71       81
Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder5)                     48                            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)           97      84       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                          59      44       37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)        100      97       95                   Bangladesh
    Male                                                    100     108     103                     Low-incomeorouI)
    Female                                                  101      89       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                 1982      I992    2001    2002
                                                                                      Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                18.1     31.7     47.0    47.6
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                      17.8     17.3     23.1    23.1                        Trade
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                   5.2       7.6    15.4    14.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP                        12.5     13.9     18.0    18.2
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         17.9     19.3     22.4    23.4                          T
Currentaccount baiancelGDP                        -4.9      -0.4    -1.7     0.5      3omestic
InterestpaymentslGDP                               0.3      0.5      0.3     0.3                                   Investment
                                                                                      savlngs
Total debtlGDP                                    27.9     42.8     32.4    35.8
Total debt servicelexports                        17.7     16.2      7.3     7.7
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                            20.7
Presentvalue of debVexports                                        105.4                            Indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002  2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                        -
                                                                                                    Bangladesh
GDP                                        3.8     5.0      5.3      4.4
GDP Der caDita                             1.3     3.2      3.5      2.6                             Low-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                 1982     1992     2001    2002     1 Growth of investmentand GDP("A)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                   i
Agriculture                                       31.2     29.4    24.1     22.7     15

Industry                                          21.1     22.5    25.9     26.4     '0
   Manufacturing                                  13.7     13.9     15.6    15.9
Services                                          47.7     48.1    50.0     50.9

Privateconsumption
General governmentconsumption                      4.5      4.5      4.5     5.0
Importsof goods and serfices                      15.9     12.3    21.5     19.0

                                               1982-92 1992-02     2001    2002
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                        2.2      3.4      3.1     0.0
Industry                                          6.0       7.1      7.4     6.5
  Manufacturing                                   5.6       6.6      6.7     5.5
Services                                          3.7       4.8      5.5     5.4

Private consumption                               3.0       3.7     4.8     -0.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      2.7       4.5     4.5     19.2
Gross domestic investment                         6.3       9.6      5.8     8.2
imports of goods and services                     2.3       9.4    11.2    -11.2




                                                                - 98 -

                                                                                                            Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982   1992     2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                             Inflation(%)                                  I
I%change)
Consumer prices                                     4.5       1.6     1.9
Implicit GDP deflator                                                                                                     ..I
                                             9.7    3.0       1.6     3.2

Governmentfinance
1%of GDP,includes currentgrants)                                             O
Current revenue                                     8.3       9.0   10.1             97     98      89     DO     0,
Current budget balance                               1.9      1.4    2.1            W G D P deflator      -0-CPI
Overall SurDlusideficit                     -9.6    -4.5     -5.0    -4.6

TRADE
                                                                                                                         1
                                           1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Exportand importlevels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                               1,986    6,476   5,929    i0.000 7
  Raw jute                                          106       67      61
  Leather and leather products                      139      254     207
  Manufactures                                    1,593    5,766   5,367
Total imports (cif)                               3,526    9,363   7,697
  Food                                              265      380     437
  Fuel and energy                                   168      848     723
  Capital goods                                   1,289    2,400   2,617                                                  I
                                                                                    96    97   98     99   00    01
Export price index (1995=100)                        86      112     115
import price index (1995=100)                       107      129     106                   Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                            81       87     108                                                O2



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                              Current account balanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services               840   2,468    7,235   6,794    ' T
Imports of goods and services             2,759   3,932   10,103   9,061
Resource balance                          -1,919 -1,464   -2,068  -2,267

Net income                                   -97    -89    -264    -319
Net current transfers                     1,121   1,435    2,316   2,826

Current account balance                    -895   -118     -816      240

Financing items (net)                       387    635      490       35
Changes in net reserves                     508   -517       326   -275

Memo:
Reserves including gold /US$ millions)            1,600    1,307   1,583
Conversion rate (DEC,loca/lUS$J            20.0   37.7      54.0    57.4

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                              Composltlonof ZOO2 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      5,054  13,561   15,216  17,010
  IBRD                                       55      60       17      13                     a 4 9 4 A: ,3
  IDA                                     1,270  4,534     6,439   7,063               F: 565

Total debt service                          220    552      671     722
  iBRD                                        3       7        7       7
  IDA                                         9      52     143      156

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                           759    357      287     410
  Official creditors                        739    623      419     220
  Private creditors                          21     -19     230       85
  Foreign direct investment                   7      4      174       65
  Portiolio equity                            0      6         0      -6

World Bank program
  Commitments                              571     353      296     479    A. IBRD                           E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                             188    323      312     301    B IDA
                                                                               -       D Other multilateral
                                                                                        -                    F Private
                                                                                                              .
  Principal repayments                        0     24        99    112    C IMF
                                                                               -                             G .Short-term
  Netflows                                  188    300      213     190
  Interest payments                          12     35        50      51
  Net transfers                             175    264      163     138




                                                        - 99 -

Additional Annex 11: Memorandum of Understanding with ADB and Code of Conduct
             BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II




                             Memorandumof Understanding

                                       Between


                                Asian DevelopmentBank

                                         And

                          InternationalDevelopmentAssociation

                                         For

               (Bangladesh Second PrimaryEducationDevelopmentProgram)




                                DatedNovember 20,2003




                                        - 100-

                                                            PREAMBLE


            MEMORANDUMOF UNDERSTANDING (MOU), dated ..........2003, betweenthe Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and the International Development Association (the Association).

         WHEREAS (a) the Government o f Bangladesh (GOB) has prepared a macro plan for developing primary
education in its territory, consisting o f a policy and reform framework, strategies, activities, and an investment
plan for fiscal years 2003-2009, including performance indicators, priorities for investments and capacity building
(referred to as the "Second Primary Education Development Program" or "PEDPII");

(b)      to accelerate and facilitate the smooth implementation o f PEDPII, ADB and the Association will
cooperate in the financing and implementation o f the PEDPII according to the arrangements made during various
joint missions, as set forth in this MOU;


(c)      the ADB intends to extend a Loan in an amount equivalent to US$100,000,000 to the People's Republic o f
Bangladesh (Bangladesh), upon the terms and conditions set forth in a LoanAgreement to be entered into between
Bangladesh and the ADB (the ADB Loan Agreement);


(d)      the Association intends to extend a Credit in an amount equivalent to US$150,000,000 to Bangladesh,
upon the terms and conditions set forth in a Development Credit Agreement to be entered into between Bangladesh
and the Association (the Association Credit Agreement);


(e)      a Consortium (as defined in Section 1.01(b) o f this MOU) has been established to synchronize donor
partnerships in support o f PEDPII, and which for such purpose, intends to continue working towards strengthening
and utilizing GOB systems including planning and budgeting arrangements, rules and procedures for procurement,
disbursement, accounting, auditing, reporting, monitoring and evaluation (referred to as the Common Procedures);



(0       the Ministryo f Primary and Mass Education (MOPME) and the Consortium have agreed to use Common
Procedures for the PEDPII to be carried out by GOB through MOPME;


(g)      ADB will administer the funds provided by the Development Partners (as defined in Section 1.01(d) o f
this MOU), for which purpose ADB andthe Development Partners will enter into separate administration
agreements; and


(h)      ADB has agreedto act as the LeadAgency inthe overall coordination o fthe implementation o fthe
PEDPII:

         N O W THEREFORE, the parties hereto have entered into the following understanding:



                                                      ARTICLE I
                                                        Definitions

         Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined inthe Preamble to this
M O Uhave the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:


(a)      "Annual Operation Plan" or "AOP" means an operation plan for the following fiscal year, preparedby the
GOB as a subprogram o f the macro plan referred to inRecital (a) o f this Memorandum o f Understanding, and to be
approved by the Consortium;



                                                          -101 -

(b)       "Consortium" means the Australian Aid (AUSAID), the Canadian International Development Assistance
(CIDA), the Department for International Development o fthe United Kingdom (DFID),the EuropeanCommission
(EC), the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA), the United Nations' Children's Fund(UNICEF), the Government o f the Netherlands (Dutch Government),
the Norwegian International Development Assistance (NORAD), the ADB and the Association, and any other
government, organization or agency which may decide to join the Consortium at a later stage;


(c)       "Code o f Conduct" means the Code o f Conduct, agreed by the Consortium, to be observed duringthe
implementation o f the PEDPII and attached to this MOUas Annex 1;


(d)       "Development Partners" means the agencies referred to in (b) above, excluding the ADB and the
Association;


(e)       "DPE" means the Directorate o f Primary Education within MOPME;

(4        "Executing Agency" means any agency o f the GOB responsible for the implementation o f the PEDPII;


(g)       "FMR' means the financial monitoringreports preparedperiodically by GOB under the PEDPII;


(h)       "pooled funds" means collectively the funds provided by Development Partners, the ADB and the
Association, for the purpose o f the PEDPII and kept in a common pool to be managed by MOPME; and


(i)       "PLU" means PEDPII Liaison Unit, established by ADB which Terms o f Reference (TOR) are attached
hereto as Annex 2 and have been agreed upon by the Consortium, for the purpose o f coordinating and harmonizing
the implementation, through Common Procedures, o f the PEDPII, on behalf o f the Consortium.

                                                       Article I1
                                                       General

          Section 2.01: The Code o f Conduct attached hereto as Annex 1 and the TOR o f the PLU, with appendices
attached hereto as Annex 2, form an integrated part o f this MOU. In addition to the provisions o f the Code o f
Conduct and the TOR o f the PLU, the ADB and the Association have agreed to the following procedures to
facilitate their cooperation.



                                                    ARTICLE I11
                              Planning,Cooperation,Consultationand Monitoring

          Section 3.01. ADB and the Association will cooperate in the financing and the smooth implementation o f
the PEDPII. For such purpose, ADB and the Association will either directly or through the Consortium: (a) consult
from time to time at the request o f each other on all matters arising out o f this Memorandum o f Understanding and
on the administration o f PEDPII and other matters o f common interest to them; (b) promptly inform each other o f
any event which, in their opinion, interferes or threatens to interfere with the successful implementation o f the
PEDPII or any activity thereunder; and (c) subject to their policies on disclosure o f information, provide to each
other all information that may facilitate the achievement o f the objectives o f the PEDPII.



                                                    ARTICLE IV
                                               FinancialManagement

        Section4.01. ADB will, through the PLU, supervise and monitor all issues affecting financial management
o f PEDPII in accordance with the Common Procedures.



                                                        -102   -

       Section 4.02. ADB will, through the PLU: (a) review withdrawal applications along with the Statement o f
Expenditures (SOEs) or FMRs as the case may be, and approve eligible expenditures under the PEDPII; (b) bring
immediately any error or ineligible expenditure to the attention o f the GOB; (c) review audit reports, share copies
o f audit reports with the Association, and provide reactions to GOB after discussing the audit reports in
Consortium meetings; and (d) take up all serious issues raisedby the annual, special or procurement audits.

       Section 4.03. ADB will take all necessary measures to address any allegation o f corruption through its
Anti-Corruption Unit in accordance with its own procedures that are acceptable to the Association.

       Section 4.04. Goods and services procuredunder ICB contracts will be financed outside o f the pooled
account, for which purpose ADB and IDA will make direct payment inaccordance with their own applicable
procedures.

        Section 4.05. ADB will, through the PLU, ensure that (i)the Accounts Code, the Treasury Rules and
General Financial Rules o f the GOB will continue to form the basis for accounting and financial control for the
PEDPII; (ii) single set o f quarterly financial statements (acceptable to the Association as the "Financial
              a
Monitoring Reports") will be used for the PEDPII and will be submitted within 45 days o f the end o f each quarter;
and (iii) the implementation o fthe time bound financial management improvement planaimed at addressing the
weaknesses identifiedin the financial management assessment will be monitored and adjusted in consultation with
the Association.

          Section 4.06. ADB will, through the PLU, appoint a firm, with the terms o f reference acceptable to both
ADB andthe Association, to carry out internal audits for the PEDPII as necessary, and no later than three months
after the completion o f such audit, furnish the audit report to the Association.


                                                         ARTICLE V
                                                        Disbursements

     Section 5.01. Without limitation to the provisions o f Article 4 o f this MOU, ADB and the Association agree on
the,following mechanism for disbursements:


(a)        the GOB will maintain three separate US Dollar Accounts in commercial banks for the ADB loan, the
ADB managed co-financing funds andthe Association's Credit;
(b)       replenishments will be made on the basis o f the quarterly reports submitted by DPE, which will have
accounted for all receipts and expenditures inthe preceding quarter, reconciled the financing accounts for the
quarter, and provided cash requirements for the next six months. Following review o f program outputs and
allowing for any adjustments agreed inthe quarterly reports, the DPE will submit a Disbursement Requestto the
P L U to enable P L U to request the deposit o f funds for the next six months less cash on hand o f the EA
corresponding to the Association's share inthe pool;
(c)       draw-downs from the USD Accounts to a common pool Taka Account will be made on the basis o f the
Executing Agency's funds requirements and as per the agreed financing percentages;
(d)       disbursements to the three USD accounts will be on the basis o f SOE and FMRforms submitted on a
quarterly basis or earlier, and supporting documents will be submitted for all payments over US$lOO,OOO;
(e)        withdrawal applications together with FMRs and copies o f bank statements will be received within 45
days from the end o f each quarter; and
(0        should any ineligible expenditure made from the pooled account be identified, request GOB will be
requested to refund such amount which will then be credited to the three USD accounts referred to in (a) above,
as per the agreed percentages o f financing.




                                                          - 103 -

                                                     ARTICLE VI
                                                     Procurement

         Section 6.01. ADB, through the PLU, will ensure that (a) contracts financed from the pool account will
be below the prior review limits (less than $200,000 for goods, less than $500,000, for works and less than
$200,000 for services); and (b) all ICB contracts for printingand cartridge papers financed by the Association will
be subject to prior review by the Association.
           Section 6.02. As part o f the AOP process, ADB and the Association shall agree on a proposed annual
procurementkelection plan and ensure that procurement o f all goods, works and services will be undertakenin
accordance with such agreed procurement/selection plan.

         Section 6.03. ADB will share with the Association the terms o f reference and qualifications o f all
consultants that are appointedto undertake any assignment, whether fundedby the common pool or solely by
ADB.

         Section 6.04. ADB, through the PLU, will carry out annual post-reviews for contracts financed from the
pool account on a sample basis (at least 20% o f contracts), through hiringindependent chartered accounting firm
(with international affiliation) with terms o freference acceptable to the Association.

         Section 6.05. The Association may, in consultation with ADB, carry out post review o f contracts, and, in
consultation with ADB, may declare ineligible funding/misprocurement o f a contract when such contract i s
inconsistent with the agreed procedures.

                                                        ARTICLE VI1
                                                  Effectiveness;Termination

       Section 7.01. This M O U shall become effective as o f the date o f effectiveness o f the ADB Loan Agreement
and the Association Credit Agreement.

       Section 7.02. Either party may terminate this M O U by giving not less than three (3) months' advance
written notice to the other party.


                                                    ARTICLE VI11
                                                  Dispute Settlement

       Section. 8.01. Any dispute or controversy arising in relation to this M O U will be settled by means o f
dialogue and consultationbetween ADB and the Association, and unilateral actions will be avoided.




                                                         - 104-

                                               ARTICLE IX
                                              Communications

       Section9.01. Except as otherwiseprovided inthis MOU, all written communicationsrequiredor permitted
by this MOUwill be directedto the following addresses:



                FOR ASIAN DEVELOPMENTBANK:

Asian Development Bank
P.O. Box 789
0980 Manila, Philippines
                Cable Address:
                ASIANBANK
                MANILA
Telex:
29066 ADB PH(RCA)
42205 ADB PM (ITT)
63587 ADB PN (ETPI)
                    FacsimileNumbers:
                    (632) 636-2444
                    (632) 636-2301



                FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION:

                InternationalDevelopment Association
                 1818 H Street N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.

                FacsimileNo. (202) 477-7019




                                                   - 105 -

                                              ARTICLE X
                                              Miscellaneous

       Section 10.01. Any provisionof this MOUmay be amendedonly by written exchange of notebetweenthe
parties.

       Section 10.02. This MOUis executedintwo counterparts, one for each party.



        INWITNESS WHEREOF, the parties,actingthroughtheir representatives,duly authorized, havecaused
this MOUto be signedintheir respectivenames as of the day andyear first above written.


                 ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

                 By:




                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                 By:




                                                 - 106-

                                                                                                        Annex 1


                                      Code of Conduct for PEDP-I1Consortium

     Status of this document

1.   The signatories to the voluntary Code o f Conduct, together referredto as the PEDP-I1Consortium or "the
     Consortium", recognize the need to consult and co-operate in an open and transparent manner inthe
     primary education sector in Bangladesh and agree to the guidingprinciples for their co-operation set out
     below. The signatories expressly recognize that this document is neither legally bindingnor legally
     enforceable.

     GuidinaPrinciples

2.   Members o f the Consortium are committed to a systemic development o f primary education in
     Bangladesh, with the ensuingcommitment to support the policies o f the Government o f Bangladesh
     (GOB), work with GOB systems, and accept common procedures and requirements.As regards financial
     flows, Development Partners (DPs) are committed to the principle that, to the extent possible, resources
     will be channeled through government systems and decided to work together for greater levels o f
     harmonization in line with GOB procedures and requirements.

3.   The Consortium partners mutually decide on a representative of one o f its members to chair the
     Consortium, normally for a period o f two years. The ADB, as Lead Agency, will be permanent Vice-Chair
     and Member Secretary. The Consortium will meet on a regular basis but in any case not less than once
     every quarter, with at least ten days notice. The Chair or any group o f three members can request the
     Chair to call an ad hoc meeting. Ifpossible, at least one-week notice will be given, including the agenda
     for the meeting and supporting documents.

4.   The Chair i s responsible to ensure that all basic administrative tasks are done, as far as the
     communication between the Consortium and all other stakeholders like GOB and PEDP-I1 Liaison Unit is
     concerned. Sheihe will be assisted by the P L U to perform the tasks of the Chair. The Chair chairs all
     meetings o f the Consortium, and represents the Consortium at other meetings and events. The Chair will
     make a clear distinction between herhis role as representative o f herihis own agency and herlhis role as
     Chair. The Chair may request assistance from other Consortium members for specific tasks. The
     Vice-Chair assists the Chair with all tasks, replaces herihim when necessary, and adheres to the same
     principles stated above.

5.  ADB, the leadAgency, will establish andmanage a PEDP-I1Liaison Unit (PLU). The PLUwill represent
    the consensus view of all Consortium members. Terms o f reference for the P L Uwill be developed and
     agreed with the Consortium.

6.  A meeting o f the Consortium has a quorum ifrepresentatives from a majority (more than 50%) o fthe
     signatories are present. Decisions will be taken on the basis o f consensus, with possible disagreements
    being recorded. Ifan important decision has to be made by a meeting which some o f the Consortium
    members have not been able to attend, those members will be consulted by e-mail or telephone before the
    decisions are considered final. Except in matters o f urgency, 48 hours will be givento that member to
    react.

7.  Consortium members receiving requests for new funding or technical assistance will share and discuss
    such requests with the Consortium. Poolfunding DPs will refrain from parallel funding o f Technical
    Assistance for PEDP-11.



                                                    - 107 -

8.   All major issues affecting the overall implementationof PEDP-I1(suchas proposedsignificant changes in
     plannedreforms and activities) will be presentedto the Consortium, and any requireddecisions on such
     issues will be made by the Consortium in accordancewith the principles laid out in this Code o f Conduct.
     The Consortiumwill participate in annual reviews, but will not be consultedon day-to-day
     implementationmatters.

9.   Representativesof Consortiummembers shall be deemed to representtheir Govemment or Agency.

10.  Consortiummembers will endeavor to communicate to GOB and other stakeholderswith a commonvoice,



11.  To the extent possibleplanning and organizationof activities by Consortiummemberswill be done
     jointly, particularly for activities which put demands on the time of GOB officials, including overseas
     trips.

12.  Consortiummembers will participate in annualjoint reviews, the midterm review and the final evaluation
     of to PEDP-11, under agreed Terms of Reference. Consortiummembers will ensure the requiredskillmix
     of review teams, including expertiseon gender anddisadvantaged groups.Gender balance and the
     employmentof local consultants will be encouraged.

13.  Reportingwill be harmonizedso that one commonreporting system will be usedfor all activities under
     the PEDP-11, and acceptedby all Consortiummembers.Non-poolfundersrequiring additional or different
     documentationwill avoid duplication and will minimize to the extent possible demands on GOB
     counterparts' time.

14.  Audit requirementswill be harmonizedso that one commonfinancial reporting system and one set o f
     audit requirementswill be usedfor all activities fundedthrough GOB in PEDP-11, andby all Consortium
     members. Incase of serious audit observations, the Consortiumwill provide ajoint and coordinated
     response basedon a report of an audit sub-committeeset up by the Consortium.

15.  Whenever Consortiummembers are requiredto undertake a bilateral audit they will do their utmost to
     avoid duplication andunilateral action.

16.  New donors to PEDP-I1will be encouragedto signthis Code of Conduct; the GOB will be encouragedto
     convey this message to future donors.

17.  The Code o f Conductmay be reviewedannually as part of the PEDP-I1review process.This does not
     precludeamendments at other stages, whereby changes and additionscan only be made on the basis of
     consensusby all the signatories.

18.  Issues relating to co-operationbetweendevelopment partners not foreseen in this document shouldbe
     discussedand made through consensus only.




                                                     -108-

                                                                                                            Annex 2




                                        PEDP-I1LiaisonUnit (PLU) TOR


1.   On behalf of the Consortium, ADB, the leadagency, will establishthe PLU, which will operate under the
management of ADB BangladeshResident Mission (BRM). The Team Leader of the PLUwill be responsibleto
and report to the ADB Country Director, for line management, oversight and reporting of all every day functions.

2. To be informed of and offer strategic guidance on issues o f policy importancethe Consortiumwill meet with
the PLU at least quarterly, and have specialmeetingsas requiredby the Consortium.Inaddition, the Consortium
will be aresource for ensuringcoherencebetween PEDP-I1and the broader development efforts o f development
partners,particularly inrelation to the nationalpoverty reduction strategy.

3.   The PLU, althoughaunit of the ADB and carrying the ADB logo, will have a distinct identity including its
own logo reflecting support of all contributing partners.This makes it clear that the unit i s working on behalf of
funding partners(pooling and non-pooling) of PEDP-11, in accordance with respectivebilateral agreements.

4. The staff recruitment,and day-to-day proceduresand operations of the PLUwill be basedon the ADB's
policies and regulations.The ADB will consult the Consortiumon mattersregardingthe recruitment of consultants
and staff on secondment for the PLU.

5.   The PLUwill include international and national expertiseas given inthe attachment A.

Areas of responsibilityof the PLU:

6.   The primary responsibility of the PLUi s to guide, monitor and provide oversight of the work of the Executing
Agency (EA) inimplementationof the PEDP-11.The PLU will have an important liaison responsibility on matters
of PEDP-11, meetingregularly with all relevant levels of the EA and its ProgramCo-ordination Unit (PCU), and
the PEDP-I1Donor Consortium, and inproviding information and reports, as well as facilitating dialogue on these
matters.

7. The PLUwill present all major issues affecting the implementationof the PEDP-I1(such as implementation
bottlenecks,proposedsignificant changes inplannedreforms and activities, significant changes incosts) to the
Consortium.To ensure efficiency, consolidatedfeedback from the Consortiumis important to receiveinmaximum
of two weeks from communicationfrom the PLU. Any requireddecisions on such issues will be made by the
Consortiumin accordance with the principles laid out inthe Code of Conduct of the Consortium.The Consortium
will participateinjoint annual reviews and thematic reviews.The PLUwill not consult the Consortiumon
day-to-day implementationmatters.The tasks of PLU are given inthe attachment B.




                                                      - 109 -

                                                                                     Attachment A ofAnnex 2


PEDP I1LiaisonUnit (PLU) -ProposedFieldsof Expertise


A.       International Specialists

1.       Program ImplementationSpecialist(Team Leader, Full Time): The positionentailsresponsibilitiesto
leadandguide a multi-disciplinaryteam of highlevelprofessionals(both expatriate andnational) inthe
implementationo f a multi-donor funded sector-wideprogram(SWAP). Experienceinmanagement,
procurement,(preferablyinADB procurementguidelines), inter-agencyco-ordination(GOBIDPs), education
quality improvement,andmonitoringandevaluation, is essential.

2.       InclusiveEducationSpecialist(Secondment from EC: Full Time): With adequatebackgroundingender
and social development aspects of primary educationprogramswith specialfocus on inclusive education.

3.       GovernanceandFinancialSpecialist(Secondment from DFID: Part Time or Full Time, t.b.d.): Having
backgroundinassessing anddevelopinggovernance, particularly financialmanagementandaccountability system.



4.       Short-term Specialists (invarious specialisedfields) to be recruitedas andwhen necessary.


B.       NationalExperts

1.       EducationEvaluationExpert (FullTime): Extensiveexperience ineducationprogrammonitoringand
evaluationas well as supervisingmonitoringandevaluationassignments, including student'sperformance
assessments, undertakenby others.

2.       ProgramImplementationExpert (FullTime): Extensiveexperienceinplanningandimplementationof
developmentprograms,andparticularlyinundertakingprocurement.

3.       ProgramFinance Expert (Full Time): With experienceinfinancial management, budgeting,
transactions,auditing, and familiarity with ADB's disbursementprocedure.

4.       Short-term Experts(invarious specializedfields) to be recruitedas andwhen necessary.

5.       Support Staff:t.b.d.




                                                     -110  -

                                                                                           AttachmentB of Annex 2


Tasks of the PLU:

Monitoring& Evaluationand Reporting:

1.        Receives, and reviews Annual Operation Plan (AOP); processes to Consortium for review; consolidates
comments from Consortium and advises EA and Task Manager; monitors implementation o f AOP.
2.        Based on agreements with the Consortium, co-ordinates the harmonising o f reporting procedures;
prepares for Consortium regular progress reports, and monthly updates on tasks and actions taken.
3.        Outsources financial audits, and external monitoring and evaluation actionsistudiesiperformance audit
studies, Co-ordinates external monitoring and evaluation with external monitoring and evaluation undertaken by
IMED.Co-ordinates special audit requirements of individual donors, as agreed inthe Code of Conduct. Monitors
development and implementation o f anti-corruption strategy. Reviews financial monitoring reports and monitors
progress on Performance Based Financing.
4.        Reviews monitoring and evaluation reports o f the EA; arranges for external monitoring and evaluation o f
implementation in the field.
5.        Monitors risks and risk mitigation strategies.
6.        Proposes corrective action to Consortium if needed.

Procurement & Consultancies:

1.        Undertakes prior-review or post-review o fprocurement activities o f PEDP-I1where required according to
relevant rules and regulations (GOB for local procurement, ADB procedures for I C B which ADB reviews and
clears, IDA procedures for I C B which IDA reviews and clears; a Procurement Operations Manual will be
developed); reviews procurement documents and evaluation o f bids to ensure consistency with new procurement
procedures and criteria; authorises EA to proceed (prior-review).
2.        For civil works, reviews procurement processes (prior- or post-review in accordance with rules and
regulations); and monitors EA accordingly.
3.        For recruitment o f international consultants (consultancy packages), undertakes prior review o f bid
invitation documents; reviews bid evaluation process, and contracting process and procedures.

Financial:

1.        Updates Consortium quarterly on funds flow and on other matters o fjoint external funding, such as
disbursement to the common pool by ADB (ADB loan andjointly co-financed grant funds) and by IDA (IDA
credit), and from the common pool fundby the EA;
2.        Monitors disbursement, guides EA inpreparation of withdrawal applications, reviews withdrawal
applications, forwards applications to ADB HQfor processing for release o f ADB loan funds andjointly
co-financed grant funds under ADB administration. Based on withdrawal applications received, advises on release
o f IDA credit funds.

Training:

1.        For overseas stafftraining reviews and approves selection criteria; reviews contracting process o f overseas
institutions; monitors EA for ensuring conditions for sustainability o f training impact (related to transfers).
2.        For in-country staff training, monitors implementation o f training; monitors EA for ensuring conditions
for sustainability o f training impact (related to transfers).

Linkages:



                                                          - 111 -

1.      Ensures coherenceof PEDP-I1policy objectiveswith broader development efforts (e.g. PRS, civil service
reform, FMRP).
2.      Develops linkageswith broader development environment,keepingPEDP-I1informed of DP projectsand
programmesacross government, to ensure PEDP 11consistency with national Poverty ReductionStrategy, and
emergingstrategies for strengtheninggovernance and addressinginequality.
3.      Keeps intouch with governancedevelopments within the educationsector, draws in experience from the
donor Consortium when appropriate.

Logistical:

1.      Co-ordinateswith the Consortiumto organisejoint PEDP-I1reviews; supports EA on preparationand
agenda for the missions; supports the Consortiumin preparingjoint aide memoirs; and undertakes follow-up on
agreed actions requiredto ensure consistency o f implementationwith agreementsofjoint review missions.
2.      Provides assistanceto the ConsortiumChair in organisingConsortiummeetings, andkeeps records of
meetings.

Others:

1.      Supports the Consortiuminthe development of a Public Relationsstrategy.
2.      Undertakesany other tasks requiredto guide andmonitor the ExecutingAgency (EA) in implementation
of the PEDP 11, including recommendationsto carry out specific studies.




                                                     -112 -

        Additional Annex 12: Environmental guidelines - Improved School Facilities
                   BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II

                         ImprovedSchool Facilities-Water Supply and Sanitation

1,        Background

Component 3, Improving Infrastructure, includes investments to provide safe drinkingwater and latrine
facilities inparticipating schools. It is expected that about water supply and sanitation will be provided at
about 15,000 schools.

The presenceof elevated levels ofArsenic ingroundwater inBangladesh has emergedas a major public
health issue. It has therefore become essential to ensure that no students are exposed to elevated levels o f
Arsenic by drinkingwater from tubewells provided under the project. The present project i s designedwith
in-builtsafeguardsto this end.

The safeguardsagainst Arsenic-contaminated drinkingwater will be provided through two procedures. Any
new TW provided will be installed according to the National Arsenic Mitigation Policy establishedby
GOB, including monitoring o f Arsenic concentrations inall the tubewellsprovided under the project.

The sanitation component is expected to stop environmentaldegradation through the control of dispersion
o f fecal material, thus reducing land and surface water contamination and also odor. The construction and
use o f the latrines should be subject to good construction and maintenance practices. Issues such as water
supply, ventilation, safety and hygienewill also be addressedduring construction.

2.        Provisionfor Arsenic-SafeDrinkingWater

2.1       The ProposedProgram

InArsenic-affected areas ofBangladeshavariety ofmechanisms havebeenadopted for the provision of
safe water, including Deep Tubewells (DTWs), DugWells (DWs), Pond Sand Filters (PSFs), Rain-Water
Harvesting (RWH), and Arsenic removal systems. Each approach has its drawbacks, and no single
mechanism i s appropriate for all circumstances. Inparticular, PSFs suffer from a highrisk o f
bacteriological contamination, RWH cannot provide water year-round, and Arsenic removal systems have
not yet beenapproved by GOB for widespread application. Consequently, the two most commonly applied
techniques are DWs and DTWs. Inmany areas soil conditions are inappropriate for DWs, which are also
susceptible to bacteriological contamination. In such areas, the National Arsenic Mitigation Policy
provides for the installation o f DTWs, providedthat an arsenic-safe aquifer i s available at a greater depth,
and installation i s conducted with due care to prevent the penetration o f arsenic-contaminated water into the
lower aquifer.

Although the presence o f elevated levels o f Arsenic ingroundwater from Shallow Tubewells (STWs) in
Bangladesh i s a major public health issue, there are certain areas inwhich Arsenic contamination in STWs
occurs with a frequency o f less than 20%. Insuch areas, STWs may still be a viable option for low-cost
drinkingwater. A protocol for sinking STWs insuch areas has beenestablished by the Department o f
Public Health Engineering (DPHE). Under this protocol, a STW can be established in such areas provided
that any STWs within 500 meters o f the proposed site have beentested and found to be Arsenic-safe.
Immediately on installation, and before commissioning, the STW must be tested for Arsenic, and may be



                                                    - 113-

usedfor drinkingwater only ifthe level is found to bebelow the national standard(50ppb).

Based on the NationalArsenic Mitigation Policy, PEDP I1will support the provision of safe water as
follows:

          Inareas where STWs may not be installedbasedontheprotocol described above, DWsor DTWs
will be provided. The installation procedures and design of both DWs and DTWs will follow specifications
established by DPHE and supported by the National Arsenic Mitigation Policy;
          Inareas where more than 80% ofexisting STWs are Arsenic-safe, new STWsmaybeinstalledat
schools, provided the requirements o f the DPHE installation protocol described above are met. Nationally,
about 30% o f STWs are contaminated. For the purposes o f estimating costs, it has beenassumedthat
about 50% o f water sources installed under FSSAP I1will be arsenic-safe STWs. This figure may be
revisedwhen better estimates are available.

2.2        Cost Estimatesfor Arsenic Safe DrinkingWater Supply

The approximate cost estimates for Arsenic-safe drinkingwater supply are given in Table-1. As explained,
equal numbers o f STWs and DTWs have beenassumed. Inthis approximation, the cost for 100
installations has beencalculated and average cost per installation has been estimated. Total cost i s then
calculated from the average cost. Based on currently available information, it i s assumedthat the average
cost is also valid for non-TW installations. It shouldbe noted that the present estimates are approximate
and will be inneedo f revision when better data are available.



                          Item                Numbers       Unit Cost         cost
                                                                Tk             Tk.

                                           I             I              I
                1. STW                     150           ~10,000        1500,000
               2. DTWIDW                   50            50,000         2,500,000
               Total (per 100 wells)        100                         3,000,000
               Avg. Cost per well                                       30,000


               ITotalProjectCost           115,000       &o,ooo         1450,000,000


3.        Testing ofWater Quality

3.1      The Roleof the TestingProgram

The ultimate goal o f this testingprogram i s to provide safeguards for possible exposure o f school children
to unsafe drinkingwater.

To help achieve this goal, the objectives o f testing are to ensure:

            quality assured analysis o f drinkingwater quality, including for Arsenic at ppb (gil) level. The
            lower limit o f detection o f the methods used shouldbe less than 20 gll. Two levels of QAQC
            (Quality Assurance and Quality Control) will be built into the program;




                                                     - 114-

           all new STWs, DWs and DTWsprovided under PEDP I1will be tested to ensure water quality
           meets national standards, including for Arsenic and bacteriological contamination.


      0    all water sources installedunder PEDP I1will be tested on an annual basis to ensure water
           quality meets national standards.

3.2      The Testing ProgramComponents

The specific activities under the program include:

      0     The testingo f STWs/DWs/DTWs provided under PEDP 11, numbering about 15,000, will be
            tested for Arsenic, bacteriological contamination, and other water quality parameters
            immediately after installation. These tests will be performedby DPHE, LGED, or private
            contractors. For quality assurancepurposes, 5% o f the samples, selected at random, will be
            analyzed ina second laboratory with proven credentials. Participating laboratories will be
            requiredto analyze at least tenblindstandards traceable to NIST free o f charge as the test of
            their analytical capabilities.


      0    All STWs, DWs and DTWsprovidedunder the project will be tested annually to ensure water
           quality continues to meet national standards, includingfor Arsenic and bacteriological quality.
           These tests will also be performedby DPHE, LGED, or private contractors, using the same
           quality assuranceprocedures describedabove.

3.3     Cost Estimatesfor Water QualityTesting

The approximate cost estimates for water quality tests are giveninTable-2.



                                                                                     Total
                                 Item            Numbers Unit Cost (Tk)               (Tk)




                       Sub-Total                                              7,925,000

                       Annual     Testing    (4
                       years)                                                31,700,000

                        Total                                                39,625,OO0

4.     The Sanitation Component

4.1    SanitationFacilities PlannedUnder PEDP I1

At each school, the Project will support the provisionof separate latrines for girls, boys and teachers. The



                                                   - 115 -

sanitation component i s not expected to cause any significant environmental degradation. Construction
materials to be usedfor sanitation are all locally available and largely bio-degradable. The construction of
the latrines will follow LGEDguidelines for good construction practices, and management and operation
procedures. Issues such as water supply, ventilation, safety and hygieneare addressedin standard designs
developed by LGED.

4.2      Costsfor Sanitation FacilitiesPlannedUnder PEDPI1

PEDP I1cost estimates for sanitation are as follows:

          Table 6  - Projectedcost
    I                               estimates of SanitationFacilitiesunder PI )P I1
                           Item                       Quantity     I Unit cost
                                                                        (Tk)
                                                             1.9501              2

                                                                121           225
                                                               3901              C       1.950
     Rod (kg)
     Wood (TIS)




                                                                                         6,000

      ubtotalper school (three latrinesper                                              31,504

    lTotal                                              15,000     121,000     ,




Monitoring o f PEDP I1implementation will include a regular evaluation o f the effectiveness of the water
andsanitation (WSS) component by the ProjectManagement Unit (PMU). Monitoringreports will answer
the following questions:


0        Are the tube-wells free from contaminationand beingusedfor intendedpurpose ?
0        Have the latrines been installed ?

0        Are the latrines functioning hygienically ?
0        Are the latrines being used by those for whom they were intended?




                                                    -116  -

      Additional Annex 13: Plan for Expanding Primary Education of Tribal Children
                  BANGLADESH: Primary Education Development Project II

 1.      Background

MOPME has preparedthis Plan for Expanding Primary Education o f Tribal Children as an integral part
of PEDP 11,to provide quality education to tribal children. It develops appropriate strategies, action and
institutional arrangements for improving access o f the tribal Children in attaining quality primary education
- by identifyingconstraints faced by them inavailing primary education, and suggesting appropriate
interventions for EFA. The methodology for the preparation o f TDP was desk review and secondary data
collection; focus group discussions with tribal population, primary school teachers, education officers in
tribal areas, government officials, representatives o f local government, NGOs providing primary education
to tribal population, and indepth interviews with key informants. Study area covered 7 differentunions o f
4 districts where significant numbers o f tribal communities reside.

2.       ExistingGovernment Primary Education Program for tribal and other disadvantagedgroups

Government o f Bangladesh has least 11types o f school for the provision o f primary education, among
which 37,671 Government Primary Schools (GPS) and 19,428 RegisteredNon-Government Primary
Schools (RNGPS) together serve about 15 million (84%) o f the enrolled children (DPE 2002, Primary
Education Statistics in Bangladesh 2001). Besides that, government has established 3,268 Community
schools and 4,095 Satellite schools, comprising o f Grades 1and 2 inthe under served areas, especially for
tribal children where teachers are from tribal communities. For achieving EFA, government also upgraded
the IntegratedNon formal Education Program(INFEP) and established the Directorate ofNon-Formal
Education (DNFE) in 1996 to implement four projects totaling $277 million over five years (1996-2001).
At present, 415 NGOs are providingNFE to nearly 2 million tribal, disadvantaged and out of school
children. Inthe early 1990s, government introducedFoodFor Education program (FFE) for increasing
access o f children, which was changed in 2002 to a stipendprogram for the poorest 40% of primary school
age children. The stipendamounts to Tk 100 per month and approximately 5.5 million children are
targeted. A total amount o f $600 million for 2003-2008 was budgetedfor this stipend program, and at
present tribal and other disadvantaged children attending primary schools are receiving this stipend.

3.        Situation of Tribal Population

Legal Framework: Government o f Bangladesh does not have any specific policy for tribal population
except Chittagong HillTracts (CHT), which i s recognizedas "Tribal Area" in the 1997 Peace Accord.
Constitution o f Bangladesh grants equal rightsto all citizens and promotes affirmative action. One o f the
affirmative actions are reservation o f a percentage o fpublic sector jobs and seats ineducational institutions
for tribal population. InCHT, there are laws regarding ownership and use o f lands and other natural
resources - these are CHT Regulation o f 1900, HillDistrict Local Government Council Acts o f 1989 and
the CHT Regional Council Act of 1998. CHT Ministryand CHT Regional Councilhasbeenestablished to
coordinate development activities inCHT. Three District Councils has been established in Rangamati,
Khagrachari and Bandarban, and government has devolved fund allocation, recruitment and management
function o f 19 out o f 33 departments to these councils. Management o f Primary and Mass Education has
beengivento CHT District Councils -and they have beenrecruiting teachers and monitoring activities as
per government criteria and given some supplementary readingmaterials (SRM) intribal language for
children in CHT.




                                                    - 117 -

Situation: According to the 1991 census, tribal groups consist o f about 1.13 percent o f the population o f
Bangladesh. Among the tribal groups, majority are Chakma (21%), Santal(l7%) and Marma (13%).
Majority o f tribal population (42%) reside in Chittagong HillTracts (CHT) in south-west o f Bangladesh,
others are scatteredinthe hilly areas o f north- Sylhet, Dinajpur and Mymensingh.Linguistically, the
groups living inChittagong HillTracts, Mymensing and Tangail belong to the Tibeto-Burmese category,
the groups of Sylhet and part of Rajshahiare membersof Austro-Asiatic and Dravidianand those scattered
over other parts o f country belong to the Indo-Aryan language family.

         Table 1: Regions havingTribal Group, Compositionand EstimatedPopulation2001

   Region        I  District                           I Tribal Groups                   I Population
   Northwest        Bogra, Dinajpur, Gaibandha,          Bhumiji,Banai, Garo,              395,522
                    Joypurhat, Naogaon, Natore,          Mahato, Munda, Oraon,
                    Nawabganj,Nilphamari,                Paharia, Rajbongshi, Santal,
                    Rajshahi, Rangpur, Thakurgaon        other
   Northcentral Habiganj, Moulavi Bazar,                 Garo, Hajong, Koch, Khashi,       270,540
   and              Mymensingh, Narshingdi,              Lusai, Monipuri, Rajbongshi,
   northeast        Netrokona, Sunamganj, Sylhet,        Santal, Tripura,
                    Tangail
   Southwest        Bagerhat, Barisal, Khulna            Bagdi, Born, Kaora, Munda,        31,440
                                                         Santal, Rakhain
   Southeast        Bandarban, Chittagong, Cox's         Burn, Chak, Chakma,               747,358
                    Bazar, Khagrachari, Rangamati        Khiang, Khumi,Lusai,
                                                         Marma, Mru,Pangkhu,
                                                         Rakhain, Tanchaynga,
                                                         Tripura, other
   Total                                                                                   1,444,860



Tribal population living in rural areas work as agricultural labor and some o f them are among the poorest,
they have limited access to education and health services and resources. Tribal languages and cultural
practices create barriersfor them to access public services and some o f their children attend missionary and
NGO schools.

Tribal education: There are six types of schools providing primary education to the tribal children :(a)
Government Primary School (GPS), (b) Registered Primary Schools (RNGPS), (c) Non-RegisteredPrivate
Primary Schools, (d) Satellite, (e) Community Schools and (f) NGO using non-formal technique. About 30
NGOs provide primary education to the tribal groups nationwide, and these are funded by different donors,
such as DANIDA, UNICEF, UNESCO, CARE etc. All the NGO schools follow government curriculum.
A few NGO schools are trying to introduce tribal language to facilitate tribal education, which are still at
infancy and experimental stage and have not been able to develop appropriate teaching materials. NGO
schools have tribal teachers and volunteers, which i s useful for overcoming language and cultural barriers.
Tribal teachers and volunteers were given training by professionaltrainers hiredby NGOs.

CHT Development Board (CHTDB) has been implementing primary and pre-primary education and
primary healthcare services through community centers for last two decades. Literacy rates o f some tribal
groups e.g. Chakma, Marma, Tripura is higher than the Bangla speaking population. However, 58% tribal
groups live outside CHT in a scattered manner, and their literacy rates and other social indicators are quite
low. Except Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT) there remains a serious dearth of information on education o f



                                                   - 118 -

the tribal population living in the country.         Table 1 gives status o f education in CHT, where gross
enrollment for Bangla speaking population i s highest (97%) and lowest i s MIX (15%). Female literacy i s
almost half o f that o f male, however, enrollment for girls has increased for all groups, except Mro. Only
20.6% o f the villages had primary schools located within the village and the children from 43.3% o f the
villages had primary schools located within a mile from the village. Tribal children still face lot o f
constraints and only 14.5% o f the tribal children were enrolled at the primary level according to their age
and over 30% o f the tribal households with eligible children for primary education was not in schools.
Furthermore, tribal children's school attendance and retentionrates were not so encouraging, especially for
girls in many parts of the CHT. Recent survey found that no male of 47.4% of the households and no
female o f 65.6% o f the households are able to read or write a letter, therefore,. 31.4% o f the households
can be considered as "educationally indark".

                                    Table 2:Educational Situation in CHT"




  * Counting the Hills: Assessing Development in CHT 2001, BRAC



Status o f tribal education inother areas i s dismal, as indicatedby micro-studies conducted by NGOs. In
the northeast, literacy rates o f Monipuri and Khasi are 19% and 27% respectively (Oxfam unpublished
reports). Inthe northwestern parts, literacy rates of Santal, Oraon, Pahan, Mahali, Rajoar and Mahato
ranges between 20-30%. Bhumiza report indicate that the literacy rates in the southwest are low which
varies among the Bunos (7.16%), Kaoras (4.48%) and Rajbongshi (14.36%).

4.       Consultations, issues and suggestedactions

 An extensive field visit was undertaken during May 2003 for consulting tribal population and their leaders
indifferent districts and collect informationon tribal educational status. The tribal leaders andconcerned
persons stated that there are three main reasons for lower tribal education. Firstly,tribal children start
working for an income early as majority are from poor families. Secondly, tribal children drop out due to
language barrier. It i s often difficult for them to follow class room teaching inan unfamiliar language.
Finally inadequate physical facilities and difficult terrain inhilly areas often create serious barriers for
tribal children inaccessingeducation.




                                                      - 119 -

Other constraints are shortage o f skilledlocal and tribal teachers and lack o f incentives for skilledteachers
who would be willing to go and live in a remote area. Government has initiated stipendfor disadvantaged
children, but children are eaming Taka.50 a day which is much higher than what helshe gets as stipend in
GPS. Inhilly areas, there is acute crisis of drinkingwater and the school children have to go down the hill
to fetch water from springs and streams. Therefore, children needto be out o f classes for considerable time
each day. InCHT children work in the fields during jhum cultivation and harvest, and remain absent from
schools. Also CHT families move to other areas in search for work and this residence changes i s one o f
the major reasons for school drop out.

5.       Constraints

Major constraints o f tribal population inaccessingprimary education include the following :

         Lower than national average coverage by the network o f primary schools (<60%)
         Language communication gaps: teaching language differs from tribal language
         Highdropout of students, especially after early grades (~60%)
         Poor quality o f teaching
         Teacher absenteeism, teacher not willing to go live inremote areas
         Inadequate facilities, lack o f water and sanitation
         Inadequate supervision
         Shortage o f teaching materials intribal language, especially outside CHT
         A disproportionately low numberof female teachers

6.       Suggestedactions by participants

The participants inthe consultations made the following suggestions :

     0     Government and NGOs to establish more schools intribal areas (GPS, Satellite, community and
          NFE)andbilingual education upto class three.
     0     enhanced salary for qualified teachers, and financial assistance for the poor students;
     0     flexible school timing and vacation;
     0    teaching materials intribal language and training teachers to use them effectively
     0    recruitment o f tribal teachers for primary schools and volunteers for takingpre-primary classes
           for teaching Bangla language
     0    tribal education data base, and strong M&E mechanismfor monitoringperformance;
     0    recognition o f all forms o f primary schools providing education to the tribal children;
    0     strengtheninga coordination betweenthe MoPME, local government, unionparishad, SMC, PTA
          andNGOs to increase coverage through motivationandawarenesscampaign;
    0     periodic research for identifyingreasons for drop out, non-enrollment and gender aspects.

7.       Activities under PEDP-I1:

There are no data on tribal education, but it is estimated from micro-studies that at present nearly half o f
tribal children (0.15 million) inthe primary school age group (6-10) are out o f school (Table 3). This Plan
for ExpandingPrimary Education o f Tribal Children proposes to improve access o f the tribal children and
monitoring their progress by the following actions and the relevant budget i s given in Table 4:

Component 1-Extension and rehabilitation: Extension and rehabilitation o f primary education facilities for
the out of school tribal children will be undertaken on a priority basis. These facilities will include existing


                                                     -120  -

government primary school (GPS). MoPME will conduct a mapping of GPS duringthe first year o f
program implementation to identify schools attendedby tribal children and appraise conditions o f these
schools and needs, and appropriate extension and renovationwill be carried out during the next four years.
Itis estimatedthat MOPMEwill construct 30,000 new classrooms duringthe first years- among which
2318 classrooms will be in the tribal areas for 1159 GPS.

Component 2-Social mobilization: Capacity o f tribal institutions such as CHT Regional Council, 3 Hill
District Councils, Tribal Welfare Societies will be strengthened, so that they are able to promote education
and monitorprogress intheir respective areas and groups. Social mobilization and inclusive SMC will be
established intribal areas for motivating parents to send children to school. SMC membershipwill be
revisedto include parents o ftribal children, tribal leaders, and SMC memberswill be trained for promoting
primary education intheir areas. An estimated 1159 SMC will be mobilizedfor promoting tribal education.

Component 3-Supplementary reading material: MOPME will establish a Technical Committee (consisting
of linguists and education experts), for reviewingthe existing supplementary reading materials (SRM) in
tribal languages and develop Guideline and materials for tribal education. Once materials intribal
languages are approved by Technical Committee, supplementaryreading materials intribal languageswill
be printedand distributed. It i s estimated that once standard S R M are developed, IS R M will be givento
each tribal child inclass 1 and 2.

Component 4-Recruitment andTraining: MoPME will recruit and train teachers, specially head teachers
from tribal communities for primary schools intribal areas. It i s estimated that a total o f 1159 teachers will
be recruitedintribal areas.

Component 5-Monitoring and Evaluation: MoPME will carry out a baseline survey on tribal education
during the first year of implementation and include key indicators inEMIS.Also conduct annual
assessment and monitoring o f tribal education.

8.       Implementationandinstitutionalarrangement:

National: MOPMEwill guide and monitorprogress o f tribal children education by reviewing its annual
operational plan at each PEDP-I1 Steering Committee meeting.The Steering Committee will receive
progress reports from District and Upazila committees and the EMIS. The Director, Policy and Operations
Department (POD), DPE will be the focal point inDPE for the implementation and monitoring o f tribal
education. An Assistant Director, Special Education, two special education advisors and technical staff will
be recruitedinDPE for monitoringprogress. Furthermore, MOPMEwill organize an annual meetingwith
highlevelgovernment officials from Ministries of Social Welfare, MinistryofWomen and Children
Affairs, Special Affairs Division under the Prime Minister, Ministry o f Chittagong HillTracts (CHT),
tribal leaders, people with disabilities and other stakeholders for gettingfeedback on the progress o f
Inclusive education.

District and Upazila: The DPEOs will be the focal points o f tribal children education intheir respective
area, There will be District Coordination Committees at each district, chaired by the DPEO and consisting
o f representatives o f tribal groups, NGOs and other stakeholders. Upazila education committee would
include representatives o f tribal groups, local government and NGOs to monitor progress o f tribal
education intheir areas.

Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT): The DPEOs o f the three HillDistricts Education department will be the



                                                     - 121 -

focal points in their respective area. There will be District Coordination Committees at each district,
chaired by the DPEO and consisting o f representatives of District Councils and representatives o f Regional
Council, representatives from the traditional system.Upazila education committees will include
representatives o f tribal groups, local government and NGOs to monitor progress o f tribal education in
their areas.

9.      Monitoring and evaluation

For the purpose of monitoring and evaluation of tribal education, a baseline survey will be conducted by
MOPME and DPE inthe first year and will be part o f EMIS. Regular assessment and monitoringwould
be carried out usingstructured questionnaire survey, focus group discussions and in-depthinformation for
monitoring progress. The following are social development outcomes o f the program, which will be
monitored- once duringmid-termreview andonce at the end of program.


a)      out o f school tribal children reduced 30% by MTR (2006) and 60% by completion o f the program
(2009);
b)      30% tribal children pass standard test by 2006 and 60% by 2009;
c)      SMC in tribal areas include at least 50% tribal parents and 30% mothers;
d)      30% o f schools intribal areas receivedtraining inparticipatory planning by 2009.

10.     Budget

     Table 3: Estimationof Gross Enrollmentand out of schoolTribal Children (2001)




                                                    -122   -

Table 4: Action Plan for financing Tribal primary education in PEDP-112004-2009




        classrooms (1 159 GPS intribal
        areas -2318 classrooms)


       institutions and Social Mobilization




                                                  I    I      i
F l R e c r u i t m e n t and training o f tribal
                                     -            r F 1 3 9  .  2   I~  I~ I   I   I
                                                                            /   3   9 .
11    lteachers (1159)

[VIBaseline




                                                         -123-


