E-800
August 2003
Environmental Guidelines for Primary Education
Development Prouramme-II (PEDP-II)
A. Construction works under PEDP-II includes the following components:
i) Construction of 30000 lager size class room in Government Primary Schools (GPS)
ii) Construction of 397 Upazila Resource centres (URC's)
iii) Repair and extension of 460 Upazila Education Offices (UEO's)
iv) Repair and extension of DPE, HQ
v) Repair and extension of existing PTI's
vi) Extension of DPEO Offices
vii) Construction of 15000 toilets attached with the teacher's room
viii) Sinking/re-sinking of 15000 additional tube wells
Environmental aspects should be considered both in design and construction/ reconstruction of
buildings, construction of latrines and sinking of tube wells.
LGED   always consider the environmental aspects during preparation  of design and
implementation of any construction works
B. Safe Water supply:
i) LGED is constructing / reconstructing of government and registered non-govt. primary
schools, community primary schools building since 1990. Each school having 1 school
building, 2 nos twin-pits latrines and 1 tube well. First time in 1993, it was detected that tube
well water had been contaminated by arsenic in Bangladesh. After that it was discussed at
different levels in the country and necessary steps are being taken for remedial measures.
On the basis of field survey conducted by British Geological Survey in May, 2000 arranged by
Arsenic Mitigation Project funded by UNICEF- DPHE-DANIDA-WPP-WS, it was found that
268 upazilas of 56 districts in Bangladesh affected by Arsenic. The list of arsenic affected
u azilas is given below:
Division        District                     Upazila
Barishal        Barishal       Barishal  Sadar,  Banaripara,  Agailjhara,
Babuganj,  Gournadi, Uzirpur, Bakerganj,
Mehendiganj, Muladi
Bhola          Bhola Sadar, Lalmohan
Jhalokathi     Jhalokathi Sadar, Nalchity
Pirojpur       Pirojpur Sadar, Vandaria, Mathbaria, Nazirpur,
Nesarabad
Chittagong      Bandarban      Bandarban Sadar
B-Baria        B-Baria     Sadar,    Sarail,   Akhawra,
Bancharampur, Kasba, Nabinagar, Nasirnagar
Chandpur       Chandpur Sadar, Faridgonj, Matlob, Haimchar,
:0CSi>.1\S



Hazigonj, Kachua, Shahrasti
Chittagong    Mirsarai, Sitakundu
Comilla       Chowdhagram,      Daudkandi,    Laksam,
Muradnagar, Barura, Brahmanpara, Burichang,
Chandina, Meghna, Debidwar, Homna,
Nangolkoat
Cox's Bazar   Ulkhia
Feni          Feni Sadar, Dagonbhuiyan, Sonagazi
Laxmipur      Laxmipur Sadar, Raipur, Ramgonj, Ramgati
Noakhali      Noakhali Sadar, Begamgonj, Chatkhil, Senbag,
Companigonj
Dhaka          Dhaka         Dhamrai, Dohar, Keranigonj, Nawabgonj
Faridpur      Faridpur   Sadar,   Alfadanga,  Bhanga,
Nagarkanda,     Sadarpur,     Boalmari,
Charvadrasion, Madhukhali
Gazipur       Kaligonj
Gopalgonj     Gopalgonj Sadar, Kotalipara, Moksedpur,
Kashiani, Tongipara
Jamalpur      Jamalpur Sadar, Bokshigonj, Sharisabari
Kishoregonj   Kishoregonj Sadar, Aushtogram, Bajitpur,
Voyrob,   Hossainpur,  Itna,  Karimgonj,
Koliarchar, Nikli, Pakundia
Madaripur     Madaripur Sadar, Kalkini, Rajoir, Shibchar
Manikgonj     Manikgonj Sadar, Ghior, Harirampur, Saturia
Munshigonj    Munshigonj   Sadar,  Gazaria,  Louhajong,
Sirajdikhan, Sreenagar, Tongibari
Mymensingh    Mymensingh   Sadar, Gouripur, Dhubaura,
Haluaghat, Muktagcha, Nandail, Fulpur
Narayangonj   Araihazar, Sonargaon
Narsingdi     Narsinghi Sadar, Belabo, Manohardi, Palash,
Raipura, Shibpur
Netrakona     Atpara, Durgapur, Komlakanda, Kendua.
Khaliajuri, Madan, Mahangonj
Rajbari       Rajbari Sadar, Goalanda, Pangsha
Shariatpur    Shariatpur  Sadar, Vedargonj, Damuddya,
Goshairhat, Jajira, Naria
Sherpur       Sherpur Sadar, Nakla, Nalitabari, Sreebardi
Tangail       Tangail Sadar, Basail, Delduar, Mirzapur,
Nagarpur
Khulna         Bagerhat      Bagerhat Sadar, Chitalmari, Fakirhat, Kachua,
Mollarhat, Mongla, Morelgonj, Rampal,
Sharankhola
Chuadanga     Chuadanga Sadar, Alamdanga, Damurhuda,
Jibannagar



- 3 -
Jessore       Jessore  Sadar,  Avoynagar,  Bagherpara,
Chowgacha,     Jhikorgacha,  Kashabpur,
Monirampur, Sarsha
Jhenaidah     Jhenaidah Sadar, Moheshpur, Harianakunda,
Kaligonj, Kotchandpur, Soilakupa
Khulna         Batiaghata, Digholia, Domuria, Paikgacha,
Fultala, Rupsha, Therokhada, Dakop
Kushtia       Kushtia Sadar, Veramara, Daulatpur, Mirpur,
Kumarkhali
Magura        Magura Sadar, Mohammadpur, Shalikha
Meherpur      Meherpur Sadar, Gangni
Narail        Narail Sadar, Kalia, Lohagora
Satkhira       Satkhira Sadar, Ashashuni, Debhatta. Kalarua,
Tala, Kaligonj, Shamnagar
Rajshahi       Bogra          Dhunat, Gabtoli, Shariakandi, Shibgonj
Nawabgonj      Nawabgonj   Sadar,  Bholahat,  Shibgonj,
Gomastapur, Nachole
Dinajpur       Birgonj
Gaibandha      Gobindagonj,   Sadullapur,   Palashbari,
Sundargonj
Joypurhat     Joypurhat Sadar
Kurigram       Rajahat, Nageshawri, Rowmari, Ulipur
Naogaon        Porsha, Manda
Natore         Bagatipara, Lalpur
Pabna         Bera, Ishwardi, Santhia, Sujanagar
Rajshahi       Bagha, Boalia, Mohanpur, Paba, Tanor,
Baghmara, Charghat, Durgapur, Gudagari,
Puthia
Rangpur       Pirgacha
Sirajgonj     Sirajgonj   Sadar,   Raigonj,  Belkuchi,
Kamarkhand, Kazipur, Shahjadpur, Tarash
Sylhet         Habigonj       Azmirigonj, Baniachong
Moulvibazar   Moulvibazar  Sadar, Kamalgonj, Kulaura,
Rajnagar
Sunamgonj      Sunamgonj Sadar, Bishwamvarpur, Satak,
Dharmapasha, Dirai, Doarabazar, Jamalgonj,
Shalla, Tahirpur
Sylhet        Balagonj,     Bianibazar,    Bishwanath,
Companigonj,    Golapgonj,    Goainghat,
Kanaighat, Zakigonj
The map showing the arsenic affected upazilas is annexed-I



- 4 -
ii) Procedures for sinking / re-sinking of tube wells:
(a) After selection of any school for construction / reconstruction and for sinking / re-sinking of
additional tube wells, LGED HQ send the approved list of schools to the Upazila Engineer,
LGED for implementation. After receiving the list of schools, the Upazila Engineer verify the
existing tube well of schools or surrounding locality whether it is contaminated by Arsenic or
not as well as the depth of existing tube wells. If the area is arsenic contaminated, the Upazila
Engineer discussed with the DPHE staff at upazila level about the depth of arsenic free layers in
that area. According to the depth of arsenic free layer, the Upazila Engineer sink/ re-sink the
tube wells and again test the water of new tube well with the help of DPHE at upazila level and
preserve the test results in the upazila . The final payment is made if the water is arsenic free.
(b) LGED will follow the policy to be adopted by the Government for sinking/re-sinking of
tube-wells in the arsenic contaminated area. During the interim period [before finalization of the
national arsenic policy] LGED will sink/re-sink tube-wells in close consultation with the DPHE
and will use the arsenic map carefully for ensuring safe drinking water in primary
schools/institutions.
C. Selection of water source:
According to the geographical locations Bangladesh is divided in the following regions; such as-
Alluvial normal areas, High Alluvial areas ( Brained area), Hilly region and Saline affected areas
( Coastal areas). The map showing the different regions is annexed-Il
Alluvial normal areas: Generally, the arsenic contaminated tube wells are found in alluvial
normal areas where the ground water table is high. Water is available in normal shallow tube
well. The depth of tube well varies from 15m - 50 m. But these layers are now found
contaminated by arsenic. So, these areas deep- set hand tube wells are being sunk for getting
arsenic free good drinking water. The depth of such tube well varies from 75m - 200 m.
High alluvial areas: The location of these areas are greater Rajshahi, portion of Bogra,
Mymensingh, Tangail, Dhaka and Comilla districts. Normal shallow tube wells are not feasible
in these areas. During dry season (Summer) normal pump does not work in these areas. Half
deep-set hand tube well with Tara pump or hand tube well with housing is feasible. But there are
no arsenic contamination of tube wells in these areas. The depth of such tube well varies from
70m - 90 m.
Hilly areas: In the hilly regions, normal tube wells are not feasible. Normal tube wells can not
be sunk due to under ground stone layers. tube well boring can not be done. So, ring well is
suitable for good drinking water in these areas. These areas are also arsenic free. The depth of
ring well varies from 15m - 25 m.
Saline affected areas( Coastal areas): These are newly filled alluvial areas in coastal zone in
Bangladesh. Due to inundation by saline water during high tide and the under ground aquifer is
affected by saline in normal depth. So, these areas normal shallow tube well is affected by



- 5 -
saline. Deep-set hand tube well is feasible for getting good drinking water. The depth of such
tube well varies from 250m - 300m. These areas are also arsenic free.
According to above, LGED is sinking tube wells in different areas for good drinking water in the
on going primary education development projects. But in all cases, arsenic tests are done by
LGED after installation of tube wells. For sinking or re-sinking of tube wells in the PEDP-II,
similar system will be followed.
D. Water Quality test:
At present in upazila level, DPHE can determine the availability of arsenic by kits. But they can
not identify the quantity of arsenic. DPHE have no laboratory at upazila and district level. They
have the laboratory for water testing at divisional level only. If kit is supplied, Upazila Engineer,
LGED can also determine the availability of arsenic in water.
Recently, LGED has established water testing laboratories in different districts and regional
level through Small Scale Water Resource Sector Project funded by ADB. All type of water tests
can be carried out by using the LGED's water quality testing laboratories for PEDP-ll The list of
established LGED's water uality testing laboratories are given below:
Name of laboratory          Supplied!   installed  Tests parameters     Remarks
equipment
Mobile     laboratory    -  -Water Eco. & lime test kit  Hardness, DO, PH
Dinajpur, rangpur, Bogra,   -HACH arsenic test kit  Arsenic
Rajshahi, Pabna, Kustia,    -HACH Nitrate test kit  Nitrate
Faridpur,         Jessore,
Khulna,    Barishal   and   -PH Meter             PH
Patuakhali                  -DO meter              DO
YKhulna           regional -Electrochemical Analyzer  Arsenic
laboratory                  -uv-              Vis Sodium, Potassium, Iron,
Spectrophotometer     Nitrate, Phosphate
-HACH COD Apparatus   COD
-EC meter             EC
-Salinity meter       Salinity
-Apparatus/ chemicals
Rangpur           regional  -Electrochemical Analyzer  Arsenic
laboratory                  -wv-              Vis Sodium, Potassium, Iron,
Spectrophotometer     Nitrate, Phosphate
-HACH COD Apparatus   COD
-EC meter              EC
-Salinity meter
-Apparatus/ chemicals  Salinity
Barishal          regional  -   AA Spectrophotometer  Arsenic, Lead, Calcium,
Bronze, Zinc
laboratory                  -uv-              Vis Sodium, Potassium, Iron,



Spectrophotometer             Nitrate, Phosphate
-HACH COD Apparatus           COD
-EC meter                     EC
-Salinity meter               salinity
-Flame Photometer             Sodium, Potassium, calcium
-Didesdahi Digestion APp      Sample preparation of soil
-Apparatus/ chemicals
-Shaker
Mobile        laboratory          -  -     Oxygen meter              Diluted Oxygen,
Sylhet,          Mymensingh,          -    PH Meter                 PH
Jamalpur,               Tangail,
Dhaka, Gazipur, Comilla,              -    Water test kit            Hardness,
-    Arsenic test kit         Arsenic
Noakhali, Chittagong          and     -    Soil test kit (N-P-K)    Nitrate,         Phosphate,
Cox's Bazar                           -    Irrigation Water kit     Potassium
Myrnensingh             regional      -AA Spectrophotometer         Arsenic,   Lead,  Calcium,
-    Visible                  Iron, Zinc, Bronze
laboratory                                 Spectrophotometer        Sodium. Potassium, Nitrate,
-    Electrical Conductivity  P'hosphate
Meter                    EC
-    HACH COD Apparatus       COD
-    Microbiological          Ml purpose
Incubator
-    Salinity Meter
-    Flame photometer
-    Kjelahi Apparatus
-    Drinking Water test kit
-    Microscope
-    Didesdahi     digestion
APP
-    Shakar
-    Associates appratus and
chemicals
Comilla regional laboratory           -AA Spectrophotometer          Arsenic,  Lead,  Calcium,
-    Visible                  Iron, Zinc, Bronze
Spectrophotometer        Sodium. Potassium, Nitrate,
-    Electrical Conductivity  Phosphate
Meter                    EC
-    HACH COD Apparatus       COD
-    Microbiological          Ml purpose
Incubator
-    Salinity Meter
-    Flame photometer
-    Kjelahi Apparatus
-    Drinking Water test kit
-    Microscope
-    Didesdahi     digestion
APP
-    Shakar
-  Associates apparatus and
_  chemicals
All water supply sources to be installed under PEDP-ll would be tested to ensure that the water
meets the safe drinking water standard of Bangladesh. These tests would include, but not be
limited to, arsenic and bacteriological quality. These tests may be conducted at either LGED or
DPHE laboratories or science laboratories [sample], based on local convenience.



-7 -
E. Sanitation:
2 latrines were constructed in all constructed/ reconstructed GPS and RNGPS since inception.
In 1997, it was decided that two separate latrines will be constructed ( one for boys & one for
girls) in both sides of school building. Accordingly, from 1997 two separate latrines are being
constructed in both sides of each school building. All the above types of latrines, twin pit
sanitary system with Y-junction is introduced. Each twin-pit sanitary latrine is designed for 200
users.. Twin pit sanitary system is suitable in rural areas. Because there is no necessity of
sweeper for cleaning of latrines in case of over flow. In this system one pit will be used for 3
years and it will be closed, then 2nd pit will be used for another 3 years. In the mean time the 1st
pit will be dry and germ free and will be ready for further use ( Design of twin pit latrine is
annexed-l). If may be mentioned that the dried up residual of the pit can be used as green
manure and can also be cleared by any person.
In the guide lines for Improvement of School Sanitation prepared by ITN, we found that  ITN
followed single pit system but LGED's design is for twin pit sanitary latrine which is more
suitable than single pit latrine.
In the PEDP-ll there is a proposal for construction of one sanitary latrine attached with
teacher's room. Due to increase of female teachers in primary schools, it is felt necessary to
construct one additional latrines for the teachers. Since these latrines will be attached with the
teachers room. So, the design of proposed latrines will be normal sanitary system ( design is
annexed-IV).
F. Sound Environmental Practices in Building Design and Construction:
In designing of the school building LGED follow the ACI code. Environmental aspects are also
considered by LGED.. The school buildings are designed by LGED with RCC framed structure,
RCC roof and 5 inch brick walling. The school buildings constructed as one storied building
with one storied foundation from 1990- 1996. Subsequently, considering the land crises and
provision of future expansion of building, Government decided to provide 2 story / 3 story
foundation keeping provision for future vertical expansion. Accordingly, from 1997 all school
buildings are being provided with 2/3 storied foundation.
Cyclone and tidal resistance: In cyclone and tidal surge prone areas, LGED is constructing 2
storied building in which ground floor ( 10 ft ) is open. These buildings are RCC frame
structure with RCC roof. RCC roof is monolithic with RCC frame. Hence the primary school
buildings are sound enough to resist cyclone and tidal surge.
Seismic load Consequences: All Primary School Buildings are designed and constructed by
LGED are of RCC framed structure having RCC Columns, RCC tie- bracing at plinth, lintel and
roof level. RCC roof slab is monolithic with RCC frame. At present most of the school
buildings are constructed/ under construction as one story/ 2 story building having provision for
2/3 storied foundation. Hence the primary school buildings constructed by LGED are sound
enough to withstand earthquake of moderate magnitude.



Ventilation and heat resistance: According to the location of Bangladesh, the air flow is north-
south. So, the facing of school building should be north-south for cross-ventilation.
5 inch brick walls with both sides plaster, RCC frame structure with RCC roof which also
prevent heat.
The typical school building with 3 class room and 1 teachers room having 7 doors and 11
windows are also well ventilated.
Generally, the schools are closed in long vacations. During vacations, the floor and walls may
be damp due to the closed doors & windows. To minimize this, all through Pre-cast hexagonal
ventilator (1 ft ht) is being provided in the front and back side of school building above the lintel
level.



I      
-~~ ~               $
9   t-o
)o o' hA  -al2Mja ~  141nMIR   w
*AL  A&p  4tpbof lawce-vjLp4"   taicalpkk s-2OF
gA-
~~~~~~~~~~~1



f&2&stexlLSjU~ kII 89 Es X~ I S2d! x~ j1R51 ,09 ovs ,08s er^4 wtaV, c0qV s ,Q~ Ov s Il.ki
ooqet             a  °  oq4
:S'% 'li)k~
t                                    ws        oc*
EJ1                    n
e/i"'                                I
d                    ''s"'-   8~~~~~~~~~~~~~ok
-otkdP                                s        ot
ta       m~O



7'-10' 
- 5' 9D< R.C.C. PIPr 
XCD                       |                 - [     SOAK PIT                           TOILET       it|
5' ;1                                                                         4'- 0
TOILET ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~~~~~~TIE
c:)      5'-O'X4'-O ~'                                           L5ns0ctior
LAY-OUT PLAN OF SOAK WELL
PLAN OF TOILET                                   & INSPECTION PIT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
PROJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOL UNDER
EDUCATION PROJECT
BYAPPROVED  CHECKED BY             DRAWN BYl
A. B. M. NQzrul Islam   MD. MAHBUB FIOSSAIN
SENIOR DESIGN SPECIALIST  SAE, PEDP, 3RD FLOOR.
INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN UN]T  LGED. AGARGADN
LGED,, AGARGAtN, DHAKA- 1207  DHAKA- 1207



1 2-2'   - 2
C.                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  - -". ..!..' .~ 
o0         ffvr01-                                A                     - -9__GL
3y dio PVC pipe
PLAN     OF    SEPTIC       TANK                                  -L                                                  2'-6- dio RING
I1' '-6'-1
SECTION -A-A
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
PROJECT: PRIMARY       SCHOOL UNDER
EDUCATION PROJECT
Bv APPaVEO  CI4fCKtl BY  -         AWN ONt
A. B. 1M. Nozrul Istorm  MD. MAHBUB HUSSAIN
SEII3R CESIGN SPECIMLIST  SAE. PEDP. 3RD rLOOR.
ItRASTRUCTURCE DESIGN UNIT  LGED. AGA#GAM
LGCD., AGARGAP3O. 04AKA- 1207  Ib4A- 1207



