Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3857 BD 
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Second Primary Education Development Program) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 22, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3857 BD 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 22, 2004, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has prepared a macro plan for developing primary 
education in its territory, consisting of a policy and reform framework, strategies, 
activities, and an investment plan for fiscal years 2003–2009, including performance 
indicators, priorities for investments and capacity building (referred to as the “Second 
Primary Education Development Program” or the “PEDPII”); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the PEDPII as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;   
 
(C) 
by an agreement to be entered into between the Asian Development 
Bank (ADB) and the Borrower (the ADB Loan Agreement), the ADB will make a loan to 
the Borrower in a principal amount equivalent to one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000) (the ADB Loan) to assist in financing, through a common pool, activities 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the ADB Loan Agreement;  
 
(D) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the Canadian International 
Development Agency (CIDA), the United Kingdom Department for International 
Development (DFID), the European Commission (EC), the Government of the 
Netherlands (the Dutch Government), the Norwegian Agency for International 
Cooperation (NORAD), and the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)  
(collectively referred to as the Development Partners), loans or grants in an approximate 
amount equivalent to four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000) (the Development 
Partners’ Cofinancing Funds) to assist in financing part of the PEDPII on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Development Partners (the Development Partners’ Cofinancing Funds Agreement); 
 
(E) 
the ADB and the Association have entered into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (the MOU), on November 20, 2003, making arrangements for the 
processing of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided 
severally by the Development Partners, the ADB and the Association and regulating 
certain other matters of common interest in connection with such financing; and 
 
WHEREAS (F) the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Operation Plan” or “AOP” means an operation plan for the 
following fiscal year, as a subprogram of the macro plan referred to in Recital (A) of the 
Preamble to this Agreement, and prepared and approved in accordance with paragraph 6 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Common Procedures” means the arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be observed by the Association, the ADB and the Development Partners 
for the processing of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing, the 
rules applicable to procurement of the pooled financing and other procedures related to 
the implementation of the Project; 
 
(c) 
“Consortium” means the Consortium formed by the Association, the 
ADB and the Development Partners referred to in Recital (D) of the Preamble to this 
Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“DPE” means the Directorate of Primary Education within MOPME (as 
hereinafter defined), and includes any successor thereto; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, including the 
environmental guidelines, satisfactory to the Association,  prepared by and to be carried 
out by the Borrower; 
 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(i) 
“Gender Action Plan” means the action plan referred to in paragraph 
19(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“FY” or “fiscal year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which 
commences on  July 1 of each calendar year and ends on June 30 of the calendar year 
thereafter; 
 
(k) 
“ICB Goods” means the goods to be procured in accordance with the 
international competitive bidding procedures referred to in Schedule 3, Section I, Part B.1 
of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“LGED” means the Local Government Engineering Department of the 
Local Government Division of the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government, Rural 
Development and Cooperatives, and includes any successor thereto; 
 
(m) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, and includes any 
successor thereto; 
 
(n) 
“MOPME” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Primary and Mass 
Education, and includes any successor thereto; 
 
(o) 
“NAPE” means the Borrower’s National Academy of Primary 
Education, and includes any successor thereto; 
 
(p) 
“NCTB” means the Borrower’s National Curriculum and Textbook 
Board, and includes any successor thereto; 
 
(q) 
“PCU” means the Program Coordination Unit, established for the 
purpose of ensuring coordination between the different activities under the Project and 
referred to in paragraph  3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“PSC” means the Program Steering Committee, referred to in paragraph 
2
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“PTI” means Primary Teachers’ Training Institute; 
 
(t) 
“Performance Indicators” means indicators referred to in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“PLU” means the PEDPII Liaison Unit, established by ADB with the 
terms of reference, mandate and operational procedures acceptable to the Association, for 
the purpose of coordinating and harmonizing the implementation, through Common 
Procedures, of the PEDPII, on behalf of the Consortium; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(v) 
“Procurement Regulations” means the Borrower’s Procurement 
Regulations of  October 1, 2003, published in the Borrower’s Gazette, and which is to be 
observed in the carrying out of the Project;  
 
(w) 
“PEDPII Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in 
paragraph 3(e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be prepared by the Borrower for 
the purpose of carrying out specific activities under the Project; 
 
(x) 
“PEPETC” means the Borrower’s Plan for Expanding Primary Education 
for Tribal Children, furnished to the Association in August 2003, describing a program of 
actions, measures and policies designed to address the specific primary education needs 
of tribal people including increasing enrollment and completion of primary education by 
tribal children, ensuring quality primary education to tribal children and facilitating their 
access to primary education by reducing financial barriers, increasing access to primary 
education facilities, availability of reading materials in tribal language and capacity of 
tribal institution, and to maximize the benefits accruing to tribal groups and avoid or 
mitigate potential impacts adversely affecting such groups under the Project;  
 
(y) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(z) 
“SLIP” means School Learning Improvement Plan, prepared in 
accordance with paragraph 9 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(aa) 
“SMC” means School Management Committee, referred to in 
 
paragraph 9(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(cc) 
“Taka” means the currency of the Borrower;  
 
(dd) 
“Taka Pool Account” means the account in Taka, to be managed by 
MOPME, including the funds advanced from the Special Account, for the purpose of the 
PEDPII, and kept in a common pool of funds originating from the Development Partners 
and the ADB; 
 
(ee) 
“Upazila” means an administrative sub-district of the Borrower; 
 
(ff) 
“UEO” means Upazila Education Officer;  
 
(gg) 
“UPEP” means Upazila Primary Education Plan, referred to in paragraph 
9
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
(hh) 
“URC” means Upazila Resource Center; and 
 
(ii) 
“Vulnerable Groups Action Plan” means the action plan referred to in 
paragraph 19 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred four million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 104,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, or (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
paid) on account of withdrawals made by the Borrower to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required under an AOP.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2014 and ending 
 
February 15, 2044. Each installment to and including the installment payable on  
February 15, 2024, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, 
technical, administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the EMP, the relevant provisions of the MOU as 
applicable, and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year (or other period agreed with the Association) 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01 above, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
PEDPII, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
(b) 
the Procurement Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived, in a manner not satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(c) 
The Development Partners’ Cofinancing Funds Agreements shall have 
failed to become effective by December 31, 2005, or such later date as the Association 
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the 
PEDPII are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the PEDPII shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor; or 
 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and 
 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (d)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d)(ii) of that Section. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the ADB Loan Agreement has 
been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder have been fulfilled.  
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
or Deputy Secretary, or Senior Assistant Secretary, or Assistant Secretary, or Joint Chief, 
or Deputy Chief, or Senior Assistant Chief, or Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations 
Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
642226 SETU BJ 
88028113088 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By /s/ Mirza Tasadduq Hussain Beg 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Christine Wallich 
Country Director 
Bangladesh 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A:  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Eligible Local Expenditures    
61, 410,000 
13.3% of eligible 
 
under AOPs 
 
expenditures, or any 
 
other percentage as 
 
the Association may  
determine for each 
FY from time to time 
 
(2) 
ICB Goods  
27,160,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures; 100% of 
local expenditures 
ex-factory); and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) Unallocated 
15,630,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 104,200,000 
 
=========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  
Page  15
-
14
-
14
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other loan or grant;   
 
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under any of the Annual Operation Plan 
for: (i) any overseas training until an agreement has been signed between MOPME, MOE 
and the Borrower’s Ministry of Establishment that those who receive such training shall 
return to their positions to continue their service upon completion of the training for a 
period of at least three (3) years; (ii) any construction activities, special needs programs, 
overseas and national training programs, and the various grant schemes, until the 
selection criteria for eligibility for such activities shall have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association; (iii) capacity building for DPE, NAPE and NCTB until a 
time-bound action plan for their restructuring shall have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association and shall have been approved by the relevant ministries;  
 
(d) 
payments made for expenditures under any Annual Operation Plan, until 
the annual allocation and disbursement targets for such Annual Operation Plan shall have 
been agreed during annual reviews; and 
 
(e) 
payments made for expenditures under any specific grants schemes, 
unless the Borrower has prepared a PEDPII Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, and such expenditures have been incurred in 
accordance with the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria specified in the PEDPII  
Implementation Manual.  
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works under contracts costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent each, goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each, and all services under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
 
7. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Taka for the purposes of the Project a 
Taka Common Pool Account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Taka Common Pool Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8 of this Part B. 
 
8. 
(a) 
The Borrower may withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
the Taka Common Pool Account funds to assist MOPME to pay for goods, works and 
services required under the Project.  
 
(b) 
Any payment from the Taka Common Pool Account shall be justified to 
the Association by documentation and other evidence showing that payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
(c) 
If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined that any 
outstanding amount in the Taka Common Pool Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, MOPME shall, upon notice from the 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
Association or the Borrower, promptly refund such outstanding amount to the Special 
Account. 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements
 
1.  
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount, as the 
Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals, as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project, which is an integral part of the PEDPII, is to reduce 
poverty through universal primary education and to contribute to sustainable socio-
economic development and equity as envisaged in the Millennium Development Goals, 
through the provision of quality primary education to all children in the territory of the 
Borrower.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Quality Improvement Through Organizational Development and Capacity
Building
Provision of equipment and technical advisory services and financing of 
operational expenses and recurrent costs for a series of activities designed to improve 
organizational capacity at the central levels of the MOPME and DPE, and at the Division, 
District, Upazila and School levels. 
 
Part B
:
Quality Improvement In Schools and Classrooms
Provision of equipment and technical advisory services and financing of 
operational expenses and recurrent costs for a series of activities designed to improve the 
quality of education provision for children in primary schools in the country through:  
(a) improvements to the physical environment for schooling other than those financed 
under Part C; (b) enhancement of the
 
quality of teaching in primary schools through 
teacher training and related interventions; and (c) increased community participation and 
support for primary schools through school development plans. 
 
Part C
:
Quality Improvement Through Infrastructure Development
Construction, renovation, and upgrading of infrastructure, including classrooms, 
Primary Training Institutions, Upazila Resource Centers and office facilities at various 
levels. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
Part D
:
Improving and Supporting Equitable Access to Quality Schooling
Provision of equipment and technical advisory services, financing of operational 
expenses and recurrent costs, financing of stipend programs, matching funds and 
innovation grants for PEDPII activities designed to promote and facilitate quality 
schooling for children who never attended formal primary schooling or who have 
dropped out before completing Class 5. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
works to be financed out of the proceeds of this Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Printing and cartridge paper under the Project shall be procured by NCTB under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in  
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding or National Shopping
All works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, and all 
goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the Borrower’s Procurement Regulations.  
 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to all contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of Part B 
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
Notwithstanding the annual procurement audit for contracts financed from the 
pool account, carried out by ADB in accordance with the provisions of the MOU, on a 
sample basis (at least 20% of contracts), through hiring independent chartered accounting 
firm (with international affiliation) with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
the Association may, at its own discretion, carry out post review of any contract awarded 
in accordance with this Section.  
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
1. General 
All local consultants’ services under the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000, shall be procured in accordance with the Borrower’s Procurement Regulations. 
 
2. Post 
Review
Notwithstanding the annual procurement audit for contracts financed from the 
pool account, carried out by ADB in accordance with the provisions of the MOU, on a 
sample basis (at least 20% of contracts), through hiring independent chartered accounting 
firm (with international affiliation) with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
the Association may, at its own discretion, carry out post review of any contract awarded 
in accordance with this Section.  
Page  25
-
24
-
24
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause MOPME to provide overall guidance to DPE, which 
shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the PEDPII.  
 
2. 
(a) 
To facilitate inter-ministerial decision-making during implementation, 
the Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the PEDPII, the Program Steering 
Committee (PSC) established by MOPME and consisting of senior-level representatives 
of MOE, NAPE, Planning Commission, Economic Relations Division, Finance Division, 
DPE, Ministry of Women and Children Affairs, Ministry of Chittagong Hill Tracts 
Affairs, Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division, Ministry of Establishment, 
Public Service Commission, Local Government Division, Ministry of Social Welfare as 
well as representatives of districts and Upazilas. The Secretary of  MOPME shall chair 
the PSC, and the Program Director shall act as its member-secretary. 
 
(b) 
The PSC shall meet whenever necessary, but in any case not less than 
once every quarter, to: (i) approve the annual progress report, the annual operation plans, 
as well as the supporting budgets; (ii) provide overall policy and operational guidance for 
the implementation of the PEDPII and decide on corrective action if needed;  
(iii) undertake interministerial coordination essential to achieve the reforms under the 
PEDPII; and (iv) resolve any other issues and conflicts that may emerge during PEDPII 
implementation. 
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
establish and maintain a  Program Coordination Unit (PCU), headed by a 
PEDPII Coordinator, reporting to the Director General of DPE who shall be the Program 
Director. The Program Director shall be charged with the execution of the PEDPII and 
shall be assisted by a full-time joint Program Director and by four Technical Support 
Teams (TSTs) on (i) organizational development, (ii) quality in schools and classrooms, 
(iii) infrastructure development, and (iv) access to education, respectively; and  
 
(b) 
cause the PCU to be responsible for supporting DPE to coordinate and 
monit
or
the implementation of the PEDPII activities through DPE’s line divisions, 
including, 
inter alia
,
(i) preparation of the three-year PEDPII implementation plans;  
(ii) preparation of the annual operational plans; (iii) coordination of procurement 
activities; (iv) preparation and maintenance of financial records, accounts and statements; 
(v) preparation of all consolidated progress reports, including the mid-term review report; 
(vi) organization of  monitoring and evaluation activities; (vii) coordination of the work 
of the TSTs; (viii) liaising with the PLU on PEDPII implementation matters; and  
(ix) review of the monitoring and evaluation report prepared by the Monitoring and 
Evaluation Division of DPE for annual review missions. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
4. 
For the purpose of coordinating external assistance to the primary education sub-
sector effectively, the Borrower shall cause the PCU to interact regularly with the PLU 
on PEDPII implementation and report regularly to the Association, the ADB and the 
Development Partners.   
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause the Division, District, Upazila levels, along with 
School Management Committees and schools, to be responsible, at the local level, for 
managing the primary education system at the local level,
 
including: (a) in-service 
teacher training; (b) preparation of School Improvement Plans; (c) administration of 
innovation programs; (d) implementation and monitoring of program outcomes; and  
(e) coordination of program inputs.   
 
6.
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, by no later than March 31 each year, furnish to the 
Association, for review and comment, an AOP for the following year indicating detailed 
program of activities, including cost, output and performance targets.  
 
(b) 
Three months prior to the start of each related fiscal year, the Borrower 
shall cause DPE to prepare and furnish to the Association, for review and approval, the 
AOP for the following fiscal year. Each such AOP shall: (a) have been prepared in 
consultation with and based on data collected from the various stakeholders of the 
PEDPII at various levels; (b) include fully costed proposed PEDPII activities for each 
output, linked with performance targets of the Project; (c) include a detailed description 
of how proposed PEDPII activities shall be integrated into the existing structure and with 
ongoing activities at DPE, division, district, Upazila and school levels; (d) include 
allocation of adequate resources and counterpart funding in the Borrower’s recurrent 
budget for the PEDPII; and (e) be in line with the three (3) year implementation plan for 
the PEDPII. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall: (a) provide adequate budget allocation to DPE for each 
fiscal year during the PEDPII implementation to cover all recurrent costs and other 
counterpart-funding required for the PEDPII, including but not limited to the cost for 
teachers’ salaries as well as the cost for construction maintenance; and (b) ensure such 
funding through the approved annual development plan allocations and shall, within three 
(3) months of the close of each related fiscal year, furnish the Association with the actual 
allocations given to the sub-sector. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to: (a) gradually 
decentralize planning and management functions of activities under the Project, and of 
education activities in general, to the districts, Upazilas and schools; (b) identify 
organizational functions that are to be decentralized, and develop a devolution plan, 
indicating which changes are needed in terms of authority, responsibility and 
accountability to make such decentralization and devolution operational; and (c) finalize, 
by the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 19 of this Schedule, all action needed to 
make this effective, including (i) a review and modification, where necessary, of official 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
documents such as the Published Rules of Government and MOPME administrative 
orders, and (ii) the preparation of new job descriptions at all levels. 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall cause:  
 
(a) 
the District Primary Education Offices (DPEOs) to: (i) be responsible for 
coordinating and supervising PEDPII activities at the district level and with support of 
the Technical Support Teams (TSTs); and (ii) assist Upazilas and schools with 
implementation of new authorities, preparation of UPEPs and SLIPs;  
 
(b) 
Upazila Education Offices to gradually become fully responsible for 
primary education planning and management as well as monitoring and evaluation of 
education related activities at Upazila level and cause that by December 31, 2004, UPEPs 
shall have been prepared and approved for 20% of the Upazilas and by the mid-term 
review referred to in paragraph 19 of this Schedule, all Upazilas shall have annual 
operational UPEPs; and 
 
(c) 
the SLIPs, including plans and records on the use of school support 
funds, to be prepared jointly by head teachers and SMCs for consolidation into the 
UPEPs, and cause that by December 31, 2004, SLIPs shall have been prepared and 
approved for 20% of the schools and by the mid-term review referred to in  
paragraph 19 of this Schedule, all schools shall have annual operational SLIPs.   
 
10. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
by no later than June 30, 2004, formulate and distribute widely the 
common learning outcomes standards for school performance; 
 
(b) 
through DPE, shall establish a Quality Standards Task Force to monitor 
Primary School Quality Levels (PSQL), and shall complete the baseline survey which 
shall include an audit of PSQL components; and 
 
(c) 
cause MOPME, in consultation with the Ministry of Establishment and 
the PSC, to prepare and approve a time-bound action plan to fill all professional positions 
in DPE, NAPE and NCTB. 
 
11. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, cause the 
Borrower’s responsible ministries to approve simplified procedures for filling vacancies 
for DPEO, Assistant DPEO, UEO, Assistant UEO and URC staff at Upazila and district 
level; and  
 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
(b) 
no later than one (1) year after the Effective Date, implement its policy 
of less frequent transfers by keeping staff in those positions for at least three (3) years, 
except when a promotion within the same ministry is involved. 
 
12. 
The Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Association, the ADB and the 
Development Partners, jointly review the PEDPII in the first quarter of every year to 
review the implementation progress. The review shall
,
inter alia
,
(a) evaluate the 
effectiveness of the implementation mechanisms and the efficiency of the organizational 
development; (b) assess the impact of the PEDPII on poverty reduction; (c) assess 
PEDPII contributions to the improvement of the quality of primary education; (d) assess 
implementation performance against agreed upon indicators in the program framework 
and adjust indicators as needed; (e) identify primary education policy issues; (f) assess 
the effectiveness of PEDPII strategies for promoting greater participation of girls and 
disadvantaged groups; (g) assess progress on key Program innovations as well as learning 
outcomes and quality of teaching; and (h) coordination of interventions within the 
PEDPII
 and integration of PEDPII set up and activities within DPE’s existing set up and 
activities.  
 
13. 
The Borrower, no later than nine (9) months after the Effective Date: (a) shall 
establish a National Assessment Cell (NAC) with a mandate to carry out annual sample-
based national assessments of Class 3 and Class 5 students; and (b) based on the 
outcomes of such national assessments, the NAC and the curriculum wing of NCTB, 
shall review, every two years, the student curriculum as well as the instructional materials 
in relation to teacher support. 
 
14. 
The Borrower shall: (a) no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, 
prepare the criteria for selection of new schools and other facilities; and (b) no later than 
nine (9) months after the Effective Date, agree upon the criteria for selection of  
(i) participation in special needs program, (ii) participation in overseas and national 
training programs, and (iii) allocation of funds under various grant schemes, including the 
innovation grant scheme. 
 
15. 
The Borrower shall through MOPME: (a) by no later than three (3) months after 
the Effective Date, and in consultation with the Chittagong Hill Tracts Development 
Board, Ministry of Chittagong Hill Tracts Affairs, the Development Partners, community 
leaders and Tribal Councils, and other existing Projects and Programs, develop a strategy 
and PEPETC to improve quality and access to primary education for children from tribal 
communities and areas, including Chittagong Hill Tracts, Dinajpur, Mymenshingh, 
Naogaon, and Habiganj;   
 
(b) 
ensure that the strategy and PEPETC shall be developed in full 
consultation and collaboration with tribal communities and Hill District Councils and 
shall be decentralized and devolved to the communities concerned;   
 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
(c) 
no later than one (1) year after the Effective Date, adopt the strategy 
referred to in (a) above, and the PEPETC; and  
 
(d) 
no later than the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 19 of this 
Schedule, implement the strategy and the PEPETC.  
 
16. 
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the PEPETC in accordance with the 
objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth in the said 
PEPETC; (b) refrain from taking any action which shall prevent or interfere with the 
implementation of the PEPETC; (c) take such action as may be necessary to acquire as 
and when necessary land needed for the carrying out of the PEDPII, without involuntary 
displacement of people or their livelihood; provided that if private land is donated, 
appropriate documentation shall be provided; and (d) implement the PEPETC with a 
focus on increasing enrolment of, and achievement by, tribal children in primary schools. 
 
17. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all schools, training centers and other 
buildings to be constructed under the Program shall be located on land owned by the 
Borrower and no resettlement of people, including squatters, shall be involved; (b) the 
design, extension, upgrading, renovation and operations of facilities under the PEDPII 
shall be consistent with t
he Borrower’s environmental requirements, and the 
Association’s environmental policies and the EMP; and (c) that for all facilities to be 
constructed or rehabilitated under the PEDPII, particular attention shall be given to the 
provision and maintenance of safe drinking water, including regular testing of water for 
arsenic contamination, and adequate sanitation and other facilities for both students and 
teachers, particularly the needs of girls and female teachers. 
 
18. 
The Borrower shall cause the DPE to take all necessary and appropriate steps to 
encourage the participation of communities and SMCs in school and classroom 
construction, through, 
inter alia
,
their involvement as formal parties to the certifications 
of quality construction and final payment; and prior to the commencement of any 
construction, shall cause LGED to provide each SMC with a copy of the plans and 
specifications of the work to be undertaken at their school or school site. 
 
19.  
(a) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the PEDPII and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2006, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above, on the 
Page  30
-
29
-
29
progress achieved in the carrying out of the PEDPII during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the PEDPII and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2006, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-
paragraph (ii) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the PEDPII and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.  
 
(b) 
The mid-term review referred to in (a) above shall, 
inter alia
,
cover the 
(i) Project scope, design and implementation arrangements, and institutional changes;  
(ii) implementation progress against agreed indicators in the annual operational plans and 
the three (3) years implementation plan; (iii) procurement performance; (iv) PCU 
effectiveness; (v) performance of consultants; (vi) fund flows; (vii) the geographical 
coverage of UPEPs and SLIPs and their operation; (viii) the progress of implementation 
of the Gender Action Plan, the Vulnerable Groups Action Plan prepared for the PEDPII 
and the PEPETC; (ix) lessons learned; and (x) any other issue agreed upon between DPE, 
the Association and other Development Partners.  
 
Page  31
-
30
-
30
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Performance Indicators
 
Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Association, for purposes 
of paragraph 19 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the indicators set forth below shall be 
used: 
 
1. 
Current public expenditure on education increased to at least 2.8% of GNP by 
2009. 
 
2. 
Primary education expenditure per pupil over GNP per head increased from 8.2% 
in 2002 to 10% in 2009. 
 
3. 
Increasing number of schools to operate on single shift (750 hours per year for all 
classes): 25% by mid-term review, 50% by EOP. 
 
4. 
The Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) increased from 97.5% in 2002 to about 107% 
in 2009. 
 
5. 
The Net Enrollment Ratio (NER) increased from 80% in 2002 to 84% by mid- 
term review and 88% in 2009. 
 
6. 
The number of disabled children (to be defined) out of school reduced by 20% by 
the year 2005, and by 30% by the year 2009. 
 
7. 
Student absenteeism reduced from (estimated) 40% in 2002 to 20% in 2009, with 
no discrepancy between boys and girls. 
 
8. 
Repetition rates for girls and boys in all classes reduced by 20% by mid-term 
review and 40% by 2009 compared to 2002. 
 
9. 
Student completion rates for Class 5 boys and girls increased from 68% in 2002 
to 80% by 2009. 
 
10. 
Teacher absence without leave reduced to 10% by EOP. 
 
11. 
Education achievement of girls (which is below that of boys in 2002) improved 
to at least equal to that of boys by 2009. 
 
12. 
The number of students achieving acceptable levels of literacy and numeracy (as 
measured by the National Assessment) increased by 50% by 2009. 
 
Page  32
-
31
-
31
13. 
The proportion of Class 5 students entering for the Primary Scholarship 
examination increased from 20% in 2002 to 50% by 2009, and the proportion of students 
achieving the pass level increased from 5% of students in 2002 to 40% by 2009. 
 
14. 
The transition rate from Class 5 to Class 6, estimated to be 30% in 2002, 
increased to 40% with gender parity by 2009. 
 
