RESTRICTED
FILE     COA    Y               Report No. P-60
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
June 5, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP1,2NT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOI,MENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOP}1ENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $5. 1
million to the Republic of Ecuador.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In October 1966, a UNESCO project identification mission, under
the Bank/UNESCO cooperative program, collaborated with the Ecuadorian
authorities in establishing priority educational needs.  In July/August 1967,
a Bank/UNESCO project preparation mission assisted Ecuador in +the elabora-
tion of a project to expand and improve secondary education facilities.
The request was submitted to IDA in August 1967 and the project was ap-
praised in October 1967. Negotiations for the proposed credit took place
in Washington on April 22 through April 26, 1968. The Government was
represented by Ambassador Carlos M4antilla Ortega, Mr. Raul Paez (Technical
Director of the Planning Board), Dr. Nelson Leon (Director, Ministry of
Education), Mr. Jose Calero Viteri (Ministry of Education), Mr. Voltaire
Torres (Ministry of Education) and Dr. Gonzalo Paredes (Embassy of Ecuador).
3.        Since 1954, the Bank and IDA have made seven loans and one credit
to Ecuador for a total of $66 million (net of cancellation). The proposed
credit will increase the total Bank/IDA lending to Ecuador to $71.1 million.
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Ecuador
as of April 30, 1968:



-2-
Loan/                                             Amount (US$ Million)
Credit No. Year      Borrower            Purpose Bank IDA Undisbursed
94 EC     1954 Comite Ejecutivo de
Vialidad del Guayas     Roads    7.5  -        -
137 EC     1956 Empresa Electrica Quito   Power   5.0   -        -
177 EC     1957 Empresa Electrica Quito   Power   5.0   -        -
176 EC     1957 Republic of Ecuador       Roads  14.5   -        -
212 EC     1958 Port Authority of
Guayaquil               Port   13.0   -        -
379 EC     1964 Republic of Ecuador )             9.0   -       2.9
)     Roads
51 EC     1964 Republic of Ecuador )              -   8.0      7.3
501 EC     1967 Republic of Ecuador       Agri-
culture 4.0   -       3.9
Total (less cancellations)                       58.0  8.0
of which has been repaid to Bank and
others                                         17.6
Total now outstanding                          40.4
Amount sold:                              1.5
of which has been repaid                0.9     0.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 39.8  8.0      x
Total undisbursed                               6.8  7.3      14.1
4.        IFC has one investment, made in 1965, of approximately $2 million
equivalent in equity and debt of La Internacional, a major Ecuadorian
textile firm.
5.        A fisheries development loan of $5.2 million is expected to be
submitted to the Executive Directors shortly.



PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREIDIT
6.        Borrower:               Republic of Ecuador.
Amount:                 The equivalent in various currencies of
$5.1 million.
Purpose:                To assist in financing the canstruction,
furnishing and equipment of 28 secondary
schools and a technical assistance
component to assure efficient operation
of the project schools.
Amortization:           50 years including 10 years period of
grace, in semi-annual installments
beginning August 1, 1978 and ending in
February 1, 2018.
Service Charge:         3/4 of 1 percent per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report entitled "Appraisal of an Education Project in Ecuador"
(TO-624a) on the proposed project is attached.
8.        The proposed project is part of a ten-year educational develop-
ment plan initiated by the Government in 1964 which seeks to modernize
the education and training system, particularly in regard to agricultural,
technical and teacher education.
9.        The project comprises construction, furnishing and equipment
of 28 secondary schools and a technical assistance component to assure
efficient operation of the project schools. The construction consists of:
(a) extensions to four agricultural schools; (b) one new technical school
and extensions to three others; (c) four new primary teacher-training
schools and extension to one existing school; (d) eight new first cycle
general secondary schools and extension to one existing school; and (e)
three new schools offering both first and second cycle general secondary
education; and also extensions to three existing schools of this type.



- 4 -
10.       The major impact of the project is in increasing and improving
the output of agricultural, technical and teacher-training schools. The
13 project schools of these types will provide 53 percent of the required
additional needs in these fields. On the other hand, the 15 general
secondary schools in the project account for only 7 percent of the estimated
total annual output of secondary level graduates with an academic-oriented
education.
11.       In order to execute the project, a project unit would be estab-
lished within the Ministry of Education. It would be headed by a project
director and assisted by a project architect or engineer, an educator and
an accountant. The Government would employ local architectural firm(s) to
undertake the design and supervision of the construction work. Procurement
of equipment, furniture and construction works will be made on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
12.       The estimated cost of the project is $10.2 million, of which
38 percent is for construction of teaching accommodation, 28 percent for
furniture and equipment, 5 percent for dormitories, 5 percent for site
development, 5 percent for project unit costs and professional fees,
3 percent for technical assistance, 1 percent for staff housing and
15 percent for contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at $4.5 million or 44 percent of the estimated total cost of the project.
I would consider it appropriate for the Association to finance one half
of the cost of the project, leaving it to the Government to provide the
other half and the necessary funds for the operation of the schools. The
Association will finance about $0.6 million for local cost expenditures.
This modest amount of local cost financing seems appropriate in the cir-
cumstances of Ecuador.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
13.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Republic of Ecuador and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
14.       The proposed Development Credit Agreement is in the form generally
used for education projects, and there are no special features to this
agreement.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.       Ecuador has a population of 5.5 million, with an income per head
of $205, placing it among the poorer countries of the Western Hemisphere.
Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for 34 percent
of gross domestic product. Manufacturing expanded rapidly during the 1960's
in response to the official policy of incentives for industrial develop-
ment and import substitution, and accounts at present for 17.5 percent of
GDP. The rate of growth of GDP averaged 4.5 percent during the past decade.



Since population was growing at the rate of 3.3 percent a year, the rise
in per capita income was little over 1 percent a year. Growth has been
achieved within a framework of monetary stability, price increases averaging
less than 3 percent per year during that period.
16.       Ecuador's recent economic experience and prospects are analyzed
in a report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Ecuador" (WIH-181a)
dated June 4, 1968, prepared by a mission which visited Ecuador earlier
this year. The mission held discussions with the present administration
which, following elections in June 1968, will be replaced next September
by a new administration with a four-year term of office. The main conclusion
of the report is that, given political stability there are good prospects for
continued adequate performance in the next few years, although the balance
of payments and fiscal outlook point to the need to adopt additional measures
in the pursuit of objectives given priority by the authorities. The report
identifies these measures as basically consisting in a prompt unification
of the present dual exchange rate system and a containment of the rate of
growth of the public sector's current expenditures. The former is needed
to provide greater incentives to diversification of exports, at present
heavily concentrated on a single commodity, bananas, with uncertain world
market prospects. The latter is necessary in order to generate sufficient
domestic resources for an expanded public investment program without any
significant increase in the overall ratio of taxation, which, at 16.5
percent of GDP, is already relatively high.
17.       External debt management has been good, and debt service payments
in 1967 amounted to 5.5 percent of exports of goods and services. Ecuador
has been receiving substantial amounts of external assistance on soft
terms, and even with the additional borrowing that needs to be undertaken
over the next few years, the debt service ratio should not rise above 8
percent by 1970. Ecuador can therefore be considered creditworthy for ad-
ditional external lending.
18.       However, over the longer run the country faces a difficult problem
of export diversification.  Noreover, per capita income is relatively low,
and a long and sustained effort will be needed to raise the standard of
living of the mass of the population to more adequate levels. These consi-
derations justify Ecuador continuing to receive some external assistance
on concessional terms.
PART VI - COO'LIANCE IWITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
20.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA,
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of
Ecuador in an amount equivalent to US$5,100,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Ecuador in an amount in various currencies equivalent to five
million one hundred thousand United States dollars (US$5,100,000) to mature
on and prior to February 1, 2018, to bear a service charge at the rate of
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1d) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the form of the Development Credit Agree-
ment (Education Project) between the Republic of Ecuador and the Association,
which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1968



