CREDIT NUMBER 124 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 124 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1968


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1968, between the RE-
PUBIAC OF ECrADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAT. DEVELOPMENT ASsOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended February 9,
1967 (said Development Credit Regulations Ne. 1 being
hereinafter called the Regulations), with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million one-hundred thousand dollars
($5, 100,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such
Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account as
provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-


﻿visions of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have been expended for the
reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods required
for carrying out the Project; and
(b) such amounts as shall be the equivalent of a per-
centage or percentages as may be est.blished from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association of such amounts as shall have been
expended for the reasonable cost of goods required
for carrying out the Project and not included in the
foregoing subparagraph (a) ; or
(c) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required by the Borrower to meet payments
uder the foregoiiig subparagraph (a)
provided, however, that withdrawals shall not be made
on account of expenditures prior to the date of this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1%/') per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. The
Borrower shall also pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount outstanding of any special com-
mitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
4.02 of the Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
SECTIoN 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and
August 1 commencing August 1, 1978 and ending February
1, 2018, each installment to and including the installment


﻿I
payable on February 1, 1988, to be one-half of one per
cent (/, of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of
such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SE:CTIoN 3.01. The Borrower chall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to bo applied ii accordance with the peovisions
of this Agreement exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit, and the methods and procedures
for procurement of the goods to be financed out of such
proceeds, shall be determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, subject to modification by
further agreement between them.
SECTIoN 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the carry-
ing out of the Project. The specific schools included in the
Project and the locations thereof shall be determined by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, sub-
ject to modification by further agreement b-tween them.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project or cause the Project to be carried out with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with sound technical,
administrative and financial standards and with due regard
to economy.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the schools included in
the Project to be operated so as to promote the educational


﻿6
objectives of the Borrower and to be provided with quali-
fled teachers and administrators in adequate numbers.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the buildings and equip-
ment of the schools included in the Project to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and re-
pairs to be made thereto.
(d) To assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall establish and maintain, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, an appropriately staffed
opecial unit within its Ministry of Education, headed by a
Project Director to be responsible for the proper execution
and supervision of the Project, assisted by a Project
Architect/Engineer, an educator, and an accountant, all
such personnel to be acceptable to the Association, and to
be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
(e) un the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed qualified and experi-
enced architectural consultants acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, to an extent and upon terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(f) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by
contractors acceptable to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion employed under contracts satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
(g) The Borrower shall obtain the agreement of the
Association on the plans, specifications, contracts and work
schedules for the construction work included in the Project
rud on the master lists of instructional equipment and
furniture included therein, and on any subsequent material
modifications thereof. Tpon request from time to time by
the Association the Borrower shall promptly furnish to
the Association all relevant information on the foregoing
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿7
SECTIOx 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times make or
cause to be made available immediately as needed all funds,
facilities, services and other resources, including land, re-
quired for the carrying out of the Project and for the opera-
tion and maintenance of the schools and facilities included
in the Project.
SECTTON 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial conditions, in respect of
the Project, of the ministries or departments of the Bor-
rower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or
any part thereof ; shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the Project, the goods and any relevant
records and documents; and shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the
goods, the operation of the educational system of the Bor-
rower and programs for educational development in its
territories and the administration, operations and financial
condition, in respect of the Project, of the ministries or de-
partments of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof, and of the schools
included in the Project.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-


﻿8
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with re-
gard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and
the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the maintenance
of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SEcTox 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance of the build-
ings and facilities included in the Project against such
risks and in such amount as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower undertakes to insure the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the places of use or in-
stallation, aid for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
SECTIOx 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from   all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
I0


﻿0
SEcTIo 4.07, The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
coiniection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
SHCMzON 4.08. (a) Except as the Borrower awd the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary steps in order to acquire, by a date or
dates to be agreed upon with the Association, the owner-
'hip of all land not already acquired by the Borrower which
shall be required for the carrying out of the Project.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not award any con-
struction contract concerning any of the schools inci(lued
in the Project until it shall fully own all the land required
for such construction.
SECTION 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
six qualified and experienced advisors, acceptable to the
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, to assist the Borrower in
the training of the administrators and staff of the schools
included in the Project, and in the implementation of the
in-service and preservice of the Borrower's first cycle sec-
ondary education teacher-training program.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii)
if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of
the Regulations shall occur and shall co-.tinue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower, then at any subsequent


﻿10
time during the -ontinuance thereof the Association, at its
option, may declare the principal of the Credit then out-
standing to be due and payable immediately, and upon any
such declaration such principal shall become due and pay-
able immediately, anything in this Development Credit
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be December 3-
1972, or such other date as may from time to time t
agreed between the Borrower and   ' Association.
SECTION 6.02. If this AgrGeent shall not have come into
force and effect by August 30, 1968, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association, after consideration of the reasons for the
delay, establishes a later (late for purpose of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
Jater date.
SEC.TIox 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Education
Quito, Ecuador
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Mineducation
Quito, Ecuador
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 6.04. The Minister of Education of the Bor-
rower is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By   s/ CAnLos MANTILLA ORTEGA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The Project consists of :
A. The construction, furnishing and equipment of:
(a) extensions to four existing agricultural secondary
schools including boarding facilities and staff
housing;
(b) one new and extensions to three technical secondary
schools including boarding facilities;
(c) four new and extensions to one teacher-training sec-
ondary schools including boarding facilities;
(d) eleven new and extensions to four general secondary
schools.
B. The establishment of a special unit to be responsible for
the execution of the Project.
C. The Project further includes technical assistance of
about 24 man-years required for the efficient operation
of the schools listed under A above.
The Project is expected to be completed by the middle
of 1972.


