Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19627-CM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.3 million
(Equivalent to US$5.77 million)
TO THE
REPUBLIC of CAMEROON
FOR A
PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
March 30, 2000
AFTE I Environment Group
AFC07 Country Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = 651 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                   Agence Francaise de Developpement - French Development Agency
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
COTCO                 Cameroon Oil Transportation Company
CPSP                  Comite de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines (Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee)
CTNSC                 Comitf Technique National de Suivi et de Controle des aspects
environnementaux des projets petroliers (Chad) - Petroleum Projects Environmental Control
and Monitoring National Technical Committee (Chad)
CTS                   Cameroon Transport System
EA                    Enviromnental Assessment
EIA                   Environmental Impact Assessment
EMIS                  Environmental Monitoring Information System
EMP                   Environmental Management Plan
ERS                   Environment, Route and Security (section of the PSMC)
EXXON                 Exxon Mobil Corporation (USA)
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOC                   Government of Cameroon
GTZ                   German technical cooperation agency
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Association
IDF                   Institutional Development Fund
IEC                   Information, Education, Communication
IFC                   International Finance Corporation
IPP                   Indigenous Peoples Plan
MESRS                 Ministry in charge of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MH                    Ministry in charge of Health
MINEF                 Ministry in charge of Environment and Forestry
MINUH                 Ministry in charge of Housing and Urban Development
MIS                   Management Information System
MMWE                  Ministry in charge of Mines, Water, and Energy
MINPAT                Ministry in charge of Public Investment and Regional Development
MOF                   Ministry in charge of Finance
MSA                   Ministry in charge of Social Affairs
MT                    Ministry in charge of Transport
NGO                   Nongovernmental Organization
OEEP                  Offsite Environmental Enhancement Programs
PCU                   Project Coordinating Unit
PDPP                  Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project
PIM                   Project Implementation Manual
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PSMC                  Pipeline Steering & Monitoring Committee
SNH                   Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures - National Hydrocarbon Corporation
SOE                   Statement of Expenditure
TOTCO                 Tchad Oil Transportation Company
WBG                   World Bank Group
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:  Charlotte Bingham
Task Team Leader:  Jean Roger Mercier



PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT (CAPECE) PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                                                     I
2. Key performance indicators                                                        1
B. Strategic Context                                                                    1
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                4
C. Project Description Summary                                                         5
1. Project components                                                                5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     9
D. Project Rationale                                                                   9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        9
2. Major related projects financed by the World Bank and other development agencies  10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      12
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                            12
1. Economic                                                                         12
2. Financial                                                                        12
3. Technical                                                                        13
4. Institutional                                                                    13
5. Social                                                                           13
6. Environmental assessment                                                         13
7. Participatory approach                                                           14
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                            14
1. Sustainability                                                                   14
2. Critical risks                                                                   15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   16



G. Main Loan conditions                                                               16
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                        16
2. Other                                                                            16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      35
Annex 4: Financial Summary                                                            37
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    39
Annex 6: Project Processing Schedule                                                  47
Annex 7: Documents in Project File                                                    49
Annex 8: Status of Bank Group Operations                                              51
Annex 9: Country at a Glance                                                          53
Annex 10: Summary of the Chad Cameroon Pipeline Project Environmental Documentation   55
Map number IBRD 30660                                                                 61



Cameroon
Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project
Project Appraisal Document
World Bank: Africa Regional Office, AFC07
Date: March 30, 2000                                      Task Team Leader: Jean-Roger Mercier
Country Director: Serge Michailof                         Sector Manager: Charlotte Bingham
Project ID: CM-PE-48204        Sector: Environment        Theme: Institution Building
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance/Capacity Building  Program of Targeted      [] Yes         [X] No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data                          [] Loan   [X] Credit    [  Guarantee   [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m / SDR m): SDR 4.3 million (equivalent US$5.77 million)
Proposed terms:                                  []   Multi-currency      [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years     [    Standard Variable    [   Fixed     []  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: 0%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ m):
Government of Cameroon                                           4.2                 1.0              5.2
IDA                                                              2.1                 3.7              5.8
Total        6.3                 4.7              11.0
Borrower: Republic of Cameroon
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee
Address: BP 955, Yaounde, Cameroon
Contact Person: Chairman of the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC)
Tel: (237) 209860               Fax: (237) 204651
_ _. Annual  1.59      2.16       0.84       0.49       0.451    0.23
Cumulative      1.59       3.75       4.60       5.09      5.54      5.77
For Guarantees: N/A                               []    Partial credit         [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: FY 2001-2006
Expected Effectiveness Date: September 30, 2000  Closing Date: December 31, 2005






A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.    The objective of the present Cameroon Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project
(CAPECE) is to develop and establish a national capacity in Cameroon for the environmental
management and monitoring of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (PDPP) that involves
the construction and operation of an oil export pipeline from the Cameroon/Chad border to an offshore
point near Kribi (Cameroon). This capacity will, on a medium to long term basis, also help Cameroon
ensure the environmental sustainability of future projects, programs and policies in the petroleum sector.
A parallel capacity building project is being prepared for Chad, with similar objectives.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.    The implementation of CAPECE will allow the country to reap fully the benefits of the PDPP. In
particular, the following is expected to happen:
*  National environmental standards and norms in the petroleum sector are established,
*  The PDPP meets environmental standards and norms,
*  The Government of Cameroon develops its capacity to monitor and mitigate the environmental
impacts of large infrastructure/energy projects, a condition for continued sound foreign
investment in the country, and
*  Information on the environmental and social safeguards implementation is disseminated to all
relevant stakeholders.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15275-CM
Progress report: IDA/R98-14                           Date of discussion: March 1998
3.    The main goal of the Bank is to assist Cameroon in recovering lost ground in economic and
social development as quickly as possible, while further restructuring its economy to remain competitive
in a rapidly changing world. CAS objectives are to:
a) improve resource mobilization,
b) alleviate poverty, and
c) create a climate favorable for private sector development.
The attainment of these objectives will set the stage for faster growth, which is needed to sustain a more
prolonged focus on poverty alleviation. CAPECE will mainly contribute to the first and third objectives.
4.    The Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project represents a unique opportunity for Chad and,
to a lesser extent, for Cameroon to alleviate poverty substantially through increased public investment in
essential social sectors. The development and operation of the oil fields in Chad, the pipeline and all
associated infrastructure in Chad and Cameroon are sponsored by a consortium of international oil
companies, under Exxon's leadership, and involves: (a) the development of oil fields in the Doba area
(Republic of Chad), including the drilling of about 300 wells and the construction of associated facilities



2
and infrastructure; and (b) (i) the construction of a pipeline 760 mm (30 inch) in diameter and about
1070 km in length from the Doba oil fields to Cameroon's Atlantic coast at Kribi (buried to about 1 m of
depth), three related pumping stations, and ancillary facilities and infrastructure improvements, and (ii)
the installation of an floating storage and offloading vessel (FSO) and related facilities and an 11 km
submarine pipeline from the Atlantic coastline to the FSO. A company has been created to manage the
project in Cameroon: Cameroon Oil Transportation Company (COTCO). The total cost of the PDPP has
been estimated at around US$ 3.7 billion, with investment costs for the Cameroon Oil Transport
Corporation (COTCO) and the Tchad Oil Transportation Company (TOTCO) estimated at respectively
US$ 1,800 million and 300 million. The construction of the pipeline through Cameroon is scheduled to
start in late 2001 and to last for about two years, while the first infrastructure works could begin during
the second half of Calendar Year 2000.
5.    The preparation of the PDPP project has involved the design of an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP), in compliance with the World Bank Group's (WBG) policies. The Government's share of
COTCO will be funded by IBRD and European Investment Bank (EIB) loans totaling about US$80
million. The EMP will be implemented in Cameroon in large part under the responsibility of COTCO, but
also requires involvement by the Governments of Cameroon and Chad. In addition to sharing the
responsibility for EMP implementation in Cameroon, the Government of Cameroon, together with
COTCO has the responsibility for monitoring the environmental and social impacts of the PDPP. The
EMP was finalized and approved by the Government of Cameroon (GoC) in June, 1999. These
documents have been made available for public review and may be consulted by any interested party (see
Annex 10 for a summary).
6.    The construction and the operation of the pipeline is a major project that will provide significant
income to the Cameroonian economy through transit fees, the Government's dividends from its share of
COTCO, and taxes. Effective environmental protection will minimize the direct and indirect costs to
Cameroon associated with this pipeline.
7.    In its dialogue regarding the project with the Government of Cameroon, COTCO, the NGO
community and other stakeholders, the Bank advocated the broadest possible "environmental protection",
one that encompasses protection of the natural environment (natural resources, biodiversity, coastal
areas), minimization of pollution risks (in particular, soils and water), and protection of vulnerable
groups.
8.    The project aims to enhance Government's capacity to protect the environment and mitigate the
potential negative social and environmental impacts of the PDPP. It will, in particular, support the
implementation of programs for compensation, prevention and management of health impacts, protection
of cultural property, monitoring indigenous peoples development programs and biodiversity conservation
schemes, and information sharing.
9.    The design of the PDPP has accomodated environmental concerns by routing the pipeline
through areas of rminimum environmental impacts. In addition to these design features, the safeguard
measures proposed in the EMP include:
*  the use of appropriate design criteria, specifications and practices for the construction and
operation of the works,
* the control, both by COTCO and by the Government of Cameroon, of the implementation of
these criteria, specifications and practices,



3
* the implementation and monitoring of a compensation program for communities and
individuals with prior use rights in land under the right of way,
* the implementation and monitoring of an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) for the forest
dwelling peoples living in the area crossed by the Atlantic Forest part of the pipeline route,
and
* the implementation and monitoring of two Offsite Environmental Enhancement Projects
(OEEP) established to compensate for generalized biodiversity loss in the Atlantic Coastal
Forest and the semi-deciduous forest zones, respectively in Campo-Ma'an and in Mbam &
Djerem (see map).
10.   The last two activities will be funded and managed by an Environmental Foundation, witha Trust
Fund in an amount presently estimated at US$ 3.5 m, provided by COTCO, to be drawn down over the
operating life of the pipeline. More details on GoC's responsibilities in the implementation of the EMP
are found in Annex 10.
11.   The safeguard measures involve activities in the petroleum sector (prevention of oil spills and
other construction and operation related issues) and four other sectors (rural development for the
implementation of the IPP and of the environmental offsite enhancements, health for the prevention of
disease transmission, education for the management of the Indigenous Peoples Plan and for cultural
property protection, and transport for the associated infrastructure and the management of marine oil
spills). COTCO will implement most of the safeguard measures. The Government of Cameroon is
responsible for (i) controlling the proper execution of these safeguard measures and their consistency
with national laws, regulations, norms and standards, (ii) monitoring the state of the physical and human
environment around the pipeline and its associated infrastructure, and (iii) overseeing and supporting the
management of the environmental offsets and the implementation of the IPP.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
12.   Cameroon is currently the fifth largest producer of petroleum in sub-Saharan Africa (behind
Nigeria, Angola, Gabon and Congo-Brazzaville) with about 100,000 barrels per day. In 1998, legislation
was passed to encourage foreign investment in petroleum and gas exploration and production. Incentives
link taxes to the risk taken in prospecting for new fields. The recently opened oil fields are expected to
compensate for a 10-15 percent decline in production from traditional sources. Oil makes up about a
quarter of Cameroon's exports.
13.   Natural resources in Cameroon are being rapidly, and in certain cases irreversibly, degraded and
destroyed. In rural areas, biodiversity is decreasing, especially as deforestation continues at the
approximate rate of 120,000 ha per annum (0.6 per cent of the natural forest area lost per annum).
Desertification progresses in the North. Unprotected soils are washed away by water and wind erosion.
The coastal zones are also under pressure.  In urban areas, unmanaged  household  and
industrial/commercial waste generate health hazards and water/air pollution is increasing.
14.   The Government is increasingly concerned about environmental degradation. It prepared a
National Environmental Management Plan (NEMP) in 1996, enacted major laws, including the Forest
Law in 1994 and, in direct application of the NEMP, the Environmental Framework Law of 1996.
Implementation decrees are currently being drafted (including for Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and pollution management), but have not yet been enacted. The strategy identified in the NEMP
calls for a coordination function to be carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MINEF),
with sector Ministries assuming the main responsibilities for regulating and monitoring environmental



4
concerns in their respective areas. The NEMP includes a list of activities that need to be implemented,
and represents a broad and long term effort to reverse the present negative environmental trends. It has
yet to be fully integrated in sectoral policies, in particular in the energy sector. There is insufficient
governmental capacity to enforce existing legislation, or to implement its NEMP. Coordination among
the various governmental bodies and agencies involved in environmental protection is weak. The
Permanent Secretariat for the Environment (PSE) has been established in the Ministry of Environment
and Forestry (MINEF) only in late May 1999.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
15.   The main issues that will be addressed by the project are the weaknesses of:
* the institutional arrangements for coordination of environmental management activities at the
national level,
* the legal framework and related capacity of enforcement and monitoring to ensure a sound
implementation and monitoring of the EMP of the PDPP, and
* the coordination processes among the various stakeholders, including NGOs.
16.   The GoC has established, by the Decree 97-116 of July 7, 1997, a Pipeline Steering and
Monitoring Committee (PSMC) under the trusteeship of SNH, the national oil company. The PSMC is
an interministerial body mandated to oversee and monitor all environmental and social aspects of pipeline
construction and operation. The PSMC has two arms:
(a) The "Comite de Suivi" (CS) which is the steering, monitoring and administrative arm. It is
comprised of representatives of fifteen (15) ministries most involved in authorizing, overseeing,
and monitoring pipeline construction and operation activities. The Executive General Manager
of SNH chairs the CS and reports to the Presidency of the Republic. The CS is, among other
things, responsible for ensuring that all the parties involved comply with their obligations under
the EMP and the Compensation Plan for the PDPP.
(b) The " Permanent Secretariat " (PS) which is the operational arm of the PSMC. The PS is
mandated to implement the PSMC missions at field level and to report to the CS.
17.   A Presidential order (Arrete Presidentiel) of August 24, 1999 has defined the operating aid
procedural rules of the PSMC and clarified further its mandates as stated in Decree 97-116. This order
has also established the administrative structure of the PSMC, which will have six operational units to
implement its mandates.
18.   These texts materialize GoC's objectives to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of
Cameroon's management and monitoring activities for the PDPP through a single coordinating body.
This arrangement will minimize risks of overlapping jurisdiction and conflict between concerned public
agencies and ministries.
19.   Other Government agencies responsible for environmental management in the petroleum sector
include the Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MINEF), the Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy
(MMWE) with its Pipeline Inspection Service, the Ministry of Health (MH), the Ministry of Urban
Affairs (MINUH), the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRS), the Ministry of
Transportation (MT) and the Ministry of the Interior. Other ministries have a secondary mandate. They
all need capacity enhancement, including sufficient technical and financial resources to carry out their



5
mandates and improved staff motivation. The ability of the Government to address the impacts of the
pipeline project is specifically constrained by:
*  insufficient regulatory and legal framework,
*  lack of legal basis for exerting authority,
*  lack of logistical support (vehicles, communications),
*  lack of financial resources, both for investment and operations, and
*  insufficient knowledge of petroleum pipeline projects and their potential impacts among the
concerned staff in the public sector,
20.   To address these constraints and build capacity to deal with all environmental and social impacts
of the pipeline, the CAPECE project will support field interventions and inter-ministerial coordination
through the PSMC. It will help:
*  clarify the mandates of the agencies involved, frame and define norms and procedures in
their respective fields,
*  strengthen the national capacity to manage and monitor the environmental and social
consequences of development in the petroleum sector (pipeline, offshore facilities, industrial
risks associated with the exploitation and transportation of oil), by building capacity in the
relevant ministries (MINEF, MMWE, MINUH, MEM, MT, MESRS, Interior),
*  strengthen Government capacity to promote biodiversity conservation and to manage and
mitigate social impacts, including impacts on indigenous peoples, through collaboration with
the private sector and NGOs, and
*  promote the involvement of civil society in project execution through its IEC activities.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
21.   The primary responsibility for preventing, avoiding, mitigating, compensating and
monitoring the environmental impacts of the PDPP will remain with the project sponsors. The roles
of the public sector in preventing and in responding to the potential environmental and social impacts
of the PDPP include:
*  regulating the sector to provide a sound framework for making petroleum sector development
in Cameroon more environmentally sustainable,
*  delivering administrative authorizations on the basis of sound technical analysis performed
by COTCO and checked by the PSMC,
*  providing technical monitoring and control of the implementation of the mitigating measures
by the sponsors,
* enforcing regulations on pollution control, health and nature protection,
* monitoring of the environmental and social impacts, and
* conducting Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities on environmental
matters related to the pipeline.
22.   The environmental and social impacts of the project that require monitoring and mitigation
are detailed in the EMP and the Compensation Plan for the PDPP (see Annex 10).  The



6
implementation of the safeguard measures by the Government of Cameroon in the framework of
CAPECE will be linked to the implementation schedule for the construction and operation of the
pipeline. During the eighteen-month period following expected project approval (PDPP schedule
below), pipeline-related activities in the field will be limited to the development of a few
infrastructure works and construction of storage facilities, while the engineering design of the oil
field in Chad is being finalized. At the end of the period, CAPECE will have made it possible to
have the regulatory framework in place, staff to have been trained and capacity built. Consistent
with the schedule of construction of the PDPP, the major environmental and social activities to be
implemented by the Government will be as follows.
Construction Period (year 1-4)               Operational period (year 5-25)
Participation in the final engineering design studies to
help with the environmental norms and standards.
Prevention of terrestrial oil spill risks & waste  Prevention and management of marine & terrestrial
management.                                   oil spill risks and waste management.
Monitoring & prevention of environmental health
risks, including HIV/AIDS.
Oversight of the environmental offsets.       Oversight of the environmental offsets.
Oversight of the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP).  Oversight of the IPP.
Participation in the Compensation Plan and monitoring
of its impact.
Prevention and management of wildlife biodiversity
degradation during construction.
23.   The project will include the following components:  _
Indicative           Bank-      % of
Component                Costs    % of   financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)   financing
Development of an enabling regulatory    1.3  12.0%      1.25      21.7%
framework and long term vision study
for the petroleum sector
Strengthening Coordination Capacity  2.7      24.0%      1.04      18.0%
Strengthening Intervention Capacity in    5.3  48.0%     2.71      46.9%
sectoral ministries and decentralized
services in the field
Project Management, Monitoring &     0.9       8.0%      0.77      13.3%
Evaluation
Contingencies                        0.8       8.0%      0.70      12.0%
Total Project Costs  11.0   100.0%      5.77     100.0%
Total Financing Required _100.0%                       100.0%



a
Oa
Z~~~~~ - - -         
W                  ~~~~a 
q                  ~~~~a
0  ~  ~    ~    ~ ~                       ------    -
a
C,)
t!                 ~~~a
3~~~~ -  - - - - -  - - - - - - -                                    - -          _                       
- O
1~~                 ~ ~~~ _  _* _                                    0__)_, _         _ _ _ D
-0    - -     --           -  -, -             -. -.2                --- 
:~~~~~~n                                     1%     a         _       V            ]        __
a    -         2 -                                                          0
^                        _u
---           --------_ _
O~~~~~ ~~                      - - - cn    -t  - - - - - - -'    -            
S                        9_ ciX O L c  
q   



8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
24.   The project will help improve the environmental performance of the GoC in the petroleum sector.
Notably, it will:
*  Strengthen PSMC's capacity to assume its role and responsibilities as defined by the
presidential order of 8/24/99 and clarify the mandates and responsibilities of key agencies
involved in the implementation of PDPP's environmental management and compensation
plans,
*  Enhance capacity for environmental assessment, monitoring, and emergency response in the
petroleum sector,
*  Enhance the legal and regulatory frameworks for environmental management at the national
level by drafting the needed implementing regulations and strengthening the enforcement
capacity, and
*  Promote greater involvement of project-affected people and civil society in decision-making
for sustainable development.
3. Benefits and target population:
25.   The benefits to the Cameroon economy, and to its petroleum sector in particular, will be:
-  environmental risks will be identified at an early stage, enabling mitigating action to be
triggered within an appropriate timeframe,
-  the net environmental impacts of the petroleum sector development will be positive; in
particular, the tourism potential of the Kribi area will be maintained,
m  the environmental offsite enhancements and the IPP will be implemented, and will improve
governance performance of Cameroon in environmental management,
-  the potential for social conflicts in the pipeline area will be minimized,
*      environmental management capacity in Cameroon will be enhanced in the petroleum
sector in a transparent and visible way; this in turn will help strengthen overall environmental
management systems in the country and attract more foreign investment, and
- public opinion will become more aware of the environmental safeguards built into the project;
this will demonstrate the benefit of conducting environmental assessment of large
infrastructure projects, thereby creating a constituency for more sustainable development in
Cameroon in the future.
26.   The target population for CAPECE is:
*  people living and conducting economic activities in the vicinity of the pipeline and its marine
terminal,
*  public servants and state-owned agency personnel in the petroleum, social and environmental
sectors, and
*  the public interested in the environmental and social aspects of the PDPP.
27.   Particular attention will be paid under the project to:
* impacts on people affected by land acquisition,
* HIV/AIDS monitoring and impact on concerned people affected by the project in close
collaboration with UNAIDS, and
* impacts on indigenous peoples in the area affected by the project.



9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
28.   According to the Presidential order of August 24, 1999, the PSMC has the mandate to monitor the
implementation of the environmental management plans, to review public comments and respond to
public inquiries on the environmental aspects of pipeline projects, and to prepare reports on
environmental aspects of pipeline projects and operations. In this presidential order, the PSMC's
executive arm, the PS, has been equipped with six sections: (a) environmental, route and security section,
(b) administration and accounting section, (c) economy and finance section, (d) engineering and local
resources mobilization section, (e) legal counsel section, and (f) communication and education section.
All of these six sections will need capacity strengthening to carry out their new mandates. In addition,
three field units will be established by the PSMC to ensure the implementation of its monitoring and
coordination mandates on the ground. The field units will closely coordinate their field work with the
decentralized services involved in overseeing and monitoring the various environmental and social
aspects of pipeline construction and operations. The organigram of the PSMC is shown in Annex 2.
29.   The project will assist PSMC through support at two levels: the central level for all the
coordination and monitoring activities and, in the field, three mobile units (two terrestrial and one
marine), which will closely monitor pipeline construction activities. Coordination will primarily concern
seven ministries (those in charge of Environment and Forestry, Mines and Energy, Health, Urban Affairs,
Interior, Transport, and Higher Education and Scientific Research). Logistical support provided under
the project will be managed as a "pool" by the Permanent Secretariat. The Government will provide the
oversight of the implementation of the IPP and the environmental offsets, conduct its share of the
monitoring of the environmental and social impacts in coordination with COTCO's and the Bank's
monitoring systems. PSMC will conduct Information-Education-Communication (IEC) activities aimed
primarly at local populations, other ministerial departments and external stakeholders, in coordination
with the COTCO's IEC activities. Accounting, financial and procurement management will be conducted
by PSMC using World Bank acceptable procedures and processes. The procurement plan is being
prepared and will be ready by effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
30.   Alternative scenarios were depicted to analyze (i) the without project situation, and (ii) alternative
institutional arrangements. As to the non-project situation, there was a consensus among Government and
non-government partners that, without CAPECE, the Authorities would be ill equipped to meet their
obligations to implement and oversee safeguards under the PDPP. Additionally, it was emphasized that
without the project, the Government's present inability to provide environmental oversight of the
petroleum sector would be perpetuated.
31.   As to the institutional scenarios, two alternatives weie considered:
(i) use of the Ministry in charge of the Environment to lead the environmental capacity building
process for the institutions concerned; and
(ii) focus on an interministerial body to target the specific areas for improvement within each
relevant Ministry and agency.
32.    The first alternative would have allowed the effort to operate within the institutional roles and
mandates of Government institutions as defined in the 1996 environmental law (96/12). However, this
option was considered very risky given current weaknesses in the areas where the mitigation and
monitoring of environmental and social impacts of PDPP require most skills and expertise, and the limited



10
capacity MINEF has to mobilize and coordinate other Ministries and Agencies so that they can intervene
in an orderly and timely fashion. The second alternative was preferred in view of its inter-institutional
nature, its specific focus on the PDPP operation, and the easy access of SNH leadership to the President of
the Republic to resolve conflicts and make decisions that are beyond the control of individual ministries.
The use of the PSMC, under the trusteeship of the National Oil Corporation (SNH), an established
operational unit, will allow fast service delivery in the field, where it is needed, and is the most efficient
way to provide protection to the environment and the population within the present context of urgent
mobilization. A longer term solution for environmental management of the petroleum sector in Cameroon
will be established during the course of CAPECE implementation, based on a long term vision study (see
details in Annex 2).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision    1
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings 
l_________________________  ________(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                                  Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Sustainable forestry management    SAC III (1998-2003)               S              S
Mitigating the environmental impact of Transport Sector Project      S              S
linear infrastructure              (1997-2002)
Railway Privatization project   N/A           N/A
(2000-2004)
Improving public services delivery  Health (1995-1999)               U             U
capacity
Other development agencies
Improving biodiversity conservation -  Biodiversity Conservation and  S             S
GEF                                Management (1997-2000)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), N/A: Not
Applicable
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
33.   Implementation of forestry-related conditionality under SAC III has required extended dialogue
among Government, the Bank, the IMF, other donors, and the private sector. The lesson learned has been
that transparent, open, and intensive dialogue, involving all elements of civil society as well as
Government, is crucial for policy reform in this sector to be accepted and sustained. Continued, broad
public debate and international attention is needed as part of the strategy to ensure that Government lives
up to its commitments to environmental management in the context of the PDPP. The IEC activities of
this project address this issue.
34.   The Cameroon Transport Sector Project successfully piloted the approach of developing
environmental management capacity within sectoral agencies in Cameroon. The project combines support
for strategic environmental assessment at the sectoral level, with capacity building for managing and
monitoring environmental impacts at the subsectoral (roads) level. The project demonstrates that sectoral
environmental performance can be significantly improved if there is adequate political willingness and
resources are made available for this purpose. CAPECE enhances environmental capacity in a multi-
sectoral agency and aims at achieving both the sectoral efficiency and the overall coordination of
interventions, in which the Ministry in charge of environment plays a major role.



I 
35.   The Cameroon Health Sector Project, in contrast, has demonstrated the limited absorptive
capacity of public institutions in the health sector and the difficulty of reaching the poor with health
services, particularly those in remote rural areas. New approaches need to be tried, including the
delegation of basic health awareness activities and distribution of key supplies to civil society partners
outside of government. CAPECE includes the involvement of NGOs for service delivery, and the design
of the critical health management component is being done in close cooperation with UNAIDS.
36.   The GEF Biodiversity Conservation and Management Project was designed to strengthen
Government capacity to coordinate, control and support a variety of biodiversity conservation initiatives
in the country. Although project activities have proceeded well at most of the project sites, Government
coordination has been poor until recently. Following an extensive mid-term review, the project was
restructured and extended with the addition of an action plan to improve Government performance. The
site of Campo Ma'an, which includes a future biodiversity offset in the context of the PDPP, has been
subject to logging pressure in the past and its proper management has been contested. However, the
Government recently took the important step of providing improved protection to the core area at Campo
Ma'an, as well as in Mbam & Djerem. The gazetting of two National Parks (Campo Ma'an for 264,064
ha, and Mbam & Djerem for 416,512 ha) has been officially published on January 6, 2000. The additional
support to be provided under the PDPP Offsite Environmental Enhancement Program (OEEP), funded by
the Environmental Foundation which will be established by COTCO, will complement the activities
launched under the GEF project and help support sustained (25 years) implementation of the site
management plan.
37.   The preparation of the PDPP has included the formulation of an Environmental Assessment (EA)
for which several rounds of improvement and fine tuning have been needed. The debate generated and
questions posed by this EA process have demonstrated the extreme importance of a good communication
strategy to fully inform all stakeholders (NGOs and media in particular) of the actual measures taken for
the protection of the local environment in the pipeline project. This information needs to be based on
solid data collection and processing, hence the importance of the monitoring activities funded under
CAPECE. This experience has underscored the need for and the relevance of including IEC activities in
the project.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
38.   The PSMC was established to manage all activities related to the PDPP, including its
environmental and social impacts. The environmental subcommission of PSMC worked with the project
sponsors (COTCO) to design the environmental and social safeguards of the PDPP throughout the project
preparation period. This subcommission includes representatives from MINEF, the Ministry of Urban
Affairs, the Ministry of Research and Higher Education, the Ministry of Health, and the University. It is
chaired by the representative from MINEF. In February 1999, PSMC launched a diagnostic study to
identify the capacity building requirements for Govemment to assume its role in the management of the
environmental impacts of petroleum sector development. The results of this study were discussed in a
week long workshop with Bank staff in July and form the basis for the preparation of this project.
39.   In March, 1999, the President of Cameroon hosted a meeting of the Congo Basin Heads of States
on biodiversity and sustainable forest management. At this meeting, he reaffirmed the commitment of the
Government of Cameroon to the sustainable management of its natural resources and biodiversity. In the
same month, the Minister of Environment and Forestry established temporary legal protection for the
areas intended to serve as environmental offsets in connection with PDPP and initiated the gazettement
process. Shortly thereafter, key and politically difficult personnel and organizational changes were made
in the Central Forestry Directorate (a new Director was appointed) and in the Departments in which the



12
offset areas are located. In late May, the Government selected the Permanent Secretary for Environment
in MINEF, an appointment that should facilitate implementation of the NEMP. In August, the Prime
Minister signed decrees creating the institutional structures for unified technical management of two key
biodiversity areas, including Campo Ma'an. The gazettment of Campo Ma'an and Mbam Djerem National
Parks took place on January 6, 2000. These actions indicate a renewed commitment on the part of the
Government to improve environmental management and promote sustainable development.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
40.   Bank support will build on previous Bank contributions to enhance the overall environmental
management capacity of GoC, which started with an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant that
helped support the NEMP process and continued with EA capacity building under the Transport Sector
Project. The capacity built in the petroleum sector under CAPECE will expand the network of
environmental management institutions in Cameroon. The project is also designed to coordinate with the
NEMP II program funded by other donors (UNDP and Germany).
41.   The PDPP will benefit from CAPECE and Bank support and involvement in the following ways:
*  Helping coordinate the activities of seven major ministries (MINEF, MMWE, MINUH, MSA,
MT, MESRS, Interior) will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of PDPP execution.
*  Implementing the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies will ensure that the
environmental and social risks of the PDPP are minimized.
*  Applying the Bank's experience with capacity building for environmental management
worldwide has helped improve project design through an integrated approach (training,
institution building, networking).
*  Helping to design and supervise the long term vision study for the petroleum sector will
encourage the use of an analytical approach that builds on the the Bank's experience.
*  Bringing to bear the Bank's experience in the design and implementation of IEC strategies
will help the Government improve its communication with internal and external stakeholders.
*  Utilizing the partnerships of which the Bank is a part will offer a network that will enable the
Government to build its environmental management expertise rapidly.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 7)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
42.   Valuing the benefits of additional environmental management capacity is a difficult task, complex
for any capacity building project. However, the cost of the project to Cameroon is minimal in relation to
the benefits Cameroon is expected to draw from the PDPP and, more generally, from a better managed
petroleum sector (for instance, the Government Oil Spill Response Plan addresses the whole scope of
potential oil spills in the country, within or outside the context of the pipeline). The CAPECE project also
helps to provide the guarantee of good performance needed to mobilize participation by the PDPP lenders.
2. Financial:
Fiscal Impact:
43.   The Project will create an environmental and social regulatory framework for the petroleumsector
and will establish a small, but effective, permanent capacity to monitor and implement this framework
which will require Government support. Fiscal revenue from the petroleum sector will be more than
adequate to cover this limited incremental cost.



13
3. Technical:
44.   The Project will create an advanced technological capacity to monitor the environmental impact
of a large infrastructure project. The Cameroonian staff in charge of monitoring air, water and soil quality
will learn new techniques and the use of new equipment that will be useful in the context of other
infrastructure projects. The laboratories that will execute the analyses required will also improve the
general knowledge of environmental management in Cameroon. This project provides an opportunity for
Cameroon to bring its environmental management capacity in the petroleum sector up to date.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
45.   The Project will be executed under the coordination of the PSMC. Major activities will be
handled by the PSMC and its six operational units and three field units. Other ministries and agencies will
be involved in the execution of the Project, including the ministry in charge of environment (MINEF), the
ministry in charge of health (MH), the ministry in charge of mining and energy (MMWE), the ministry in
charge of urban affairs (MINUH), the ministry in charge of social affairs (MSA), the ministry in charge of
higher education and scientific research (MESRS), the ministry in charge of transport (MT), the ministry
in charge of decentralized administration (Interior) and universities of Cameroon.
b. Project management:
46.   The Project will be managed by the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee. Administrative
and financial aspects will be handled by the Administrative and Accounting section of the Committee's
Secretariat and the Human Resources section of SNH, which are staffed by experienced SNH staff. The
borrower will appoint the Permanent Secretariat's managerial staff, in accordance with the Presidential
order, and will inform IDA. The TOR of the technicians in the field units will be jointly agreed upon by
IDA and the GoC. Their selection will be made by the borrower with the non-objection of IDA.
5. Social:
47.   This project is aimed at institutional capacity building, including outreach to civil society and the
media.  It is designed to establish a transparent dialogue between the Government and various
stakeholders in order to promote public participation in pipeline project activities. In particular, the
project will help implement programs aimed at ensuring adequate compensation for lost assets, protecting
public health, enhancing the welfare of indigenous peoples, and protecting Cameroon's cultural heritage.
While CAPECE has not been designed with the main objective of confronting the HIV/AIDS epidemic, it
will contribute to intensifying action against this epidemic in close collaboration with other partners and
the local communities.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category C
48.   This is a capacity building project with very little physical investment. All equipment funded
under the project will comply with the latest environmental specifications. Environmental benefits are
expected from this project which will help build national capacity in management of environmental
impacts of petroleum projects.



14
7. Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
49.   People living alongside the pipeline route have been consulted during the Envircnmental
Assessment of the PDPP, particularly in the context of the PDPP compensation. Their opinions and
concems have been integrated into the design of the PDPP. During project implementation, the field units
will regularly be in contact with affected people (virtually on a daily basis) and will facilitate dialogue
between the population, COTCO, and the staff of the decentralized public services.
50.   The Government employees who will benefit from training and technical assistance in this project
will acquire more modern and better skills that they can use in other circumstances, e.g. in the expanding
field of environmental management, particularly in the petroleum sector. The capacity building project
has been prepared through a participatory workshop involving key stakeholders from Government.
b. Other key stakeholders:
51.   The general public and the media will receive timely and sound information on the state of the
environment and the social situation in the pipeline project area, on the status of implementation of the
environmental offsets and the IPP, as well as on the performance of the safeguard mechanisms put in
place. Channels will be established to facilitate feedback from the public, and eventually beneficiary
participation in monitoring and evaluation activities.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
52.   The capacity put in place in PSMC will initially be relatively extensive, to monitor impacts on the
ground during the construction period. During operation, capacity requirements will be much more limited
and can be sustained at a low cost. In most countries, however, the limitations of an interministertal
committee for managing the environment have usually appeared after a few years. The Government's
sustainable capacity to manage environmental impacts in the petroleum sector will be the subject of a
major long term vision study (see Annex 2) to be conducted towards the end of the project. It will use the
first results of the Monitoring and Evaluation system to assess the achievements and performance of
PSMC and recommend an appropriate strategy for the longer term.



15
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of commitment by Government to           S         Contractual obligations to implement the
fully implement safeguard policies.                     EMP under the IBRD loan to Cameroon for
the PDPP.
International Advisory Panel.
Public opinion/lEC component.
Lack of coordination among different         M          Centralization of authority under PSMC.
governmental agencies.                                  Training and incentives for decentralized
agency staff.
Lack of participation by project affected     S         IEC component.
people.                                                 IPP participatory approach.
International Advisory Panel.
Personnel do not remain in the public        M          Supportive working conditions are offered
service after training has been received                to the trained personnel.
and/or are not motivated to act against all
forms of environmental and social
degradation.
Equipment and procedures are not in place    M          A Project Implemention Manual (PIM)
in time and/or they are not operational                including a Procurement Plan will be
when and where they are needed.                         adopted by GoC prior to project
effectiveness. Procurement and
management of equipment are centralized
at PSMC and equipment use will be
programmed on a monthly basis.
Procedures will be regularly audited.
The International Advisory Panel (IAP)'s     M          The terms of reference for the Panel
advice is not discussed within PSMC, not                emphasize its pedagogic relationship with
acted on, and not disseminated broadly.                 PSMC. The GoC will make the Panel's
reports publicly available. Bank
supervision will look closely at this issue.
From Inputs to Outputs
PSMC staff are unable to coordinate           S         Training of PSMC staff will emphasize the
sectoral ministry action on the ground.                 catalytic role of the field units and the skills
required to coordinate the interventions of
line ministries.
Monitoring is not performed or is not used    S         Bank supervision will pay particular.
for the improvement of project performance              attention to the implementation of the
Management Information System and
Environmental Monitoring Information
System and the dissemination of EMIS
results. Failure to conduct proper
monitoring will be a cause for suspension
of disbursements.
Overall Risk Rating                          M          Supervision will be intensive and
conducted in conjunction with pipeline
supervision.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
53.   This project is linked with the controversial Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project. In
effect, it is part of the environmental management plan (EMP) for that project. Under the EMP, the
Government of Cameroon has committed itself to ensure that pipeline project activities are carried out in
accordance with national standards and to monitor implementation on behalf of the people of Cameroon.
As a result of CAPECE implementation, the GoC will increase its capacity to set and enforce such
standards, with special emphasis on the welfare of project affected people, particularly the poor and
vulnerable ethnic groups. The EMP proposes to address biodiversity and indigenous peoples concerns
related to the PDPP through a mechanism (the Environmental Foundation) which is largely independent of
Government control. However, the Government, through the PSMC acting with the technical support of
MINEF (for biodiversity) and relevant academic institutions (for indigenous peoples), will monitor and
support the implementation of these programs. This will provide a learning experience which may
become a platform for future improvements in Government policy and performance.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
54.   Adoption of the Project Implementation Manual (including the Terms of Reference for key staff
and studies, the training plan and the Manual of Procedures) is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
The other two conditions of effectiveness are:
e Cross-effectiveness with the PDPP Loan Agreement, and
* Adequate financial management of the PSMC.
2. Other
55.   None
H. Readiness for Implementation
56.   [ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[X] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The procurement plan is being prepared and will be ready by effectiveness. It will be included in the
Project Implementation Manual.
1. Compliance with Bank policies
57.      aroject complies with all appla nk policies.                |           /
Jie           ier                Carott                           Se   Michailof
Tae TeCm Leader                  Sector Manager                     ountry Director



17
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
Key Performance
Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:        Sector/country reports:    (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
Improve resource mobilization, PDPP operation meets   Reports by PDPP private     Sponsors and the
environmental standards and   operators (COTCO).      Government agree on
yields on average about US$                           their respective roles.
20 m per year to Cameroon
over 28-years.
Improve productivity of the   Poor people in the project area Annual reports by the PSMC, Transparent processes for
poor.                     are better off when pipeline    starting year 4. Compensation local participation in
operates.                  Plan Impact study.         project activities and
Commitment to manage      benefits.
PDPP carries over to
petroleum sector as a whole.
Improve climate for private    Environmental standards  Public expenditure reviews.
sector development         established under the project
are applied throughout the
sector. Increased investment
in petroleum sector.
Outcomes to Objectives
Key Performance
Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcomelimpact             Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Establish a national capacity   1) The Government's response 1) Periodic (bi-yearly) reports 1) Resources and equipment
for environmental management time for accidents and spills  by PSMC.             provided are used
and monitoring of the Chad-  reaches an international                            effectively.
Cameroon pipeline project    benchmark by 2005, with
action taken against sponsor in
case of non-compliance.
2) Vulnerable groups along the 2) Annual reports from the    2) Baseline data is readily
pipeline maintain at least their Environmental Foundation.   available.
current cultural, economic and PSMC reports.
health status, beginning one   IAP reports.
year after the construction of
their portion of the pipeline.
3) Biodiversity in the     3) Annual reports from the    3) The Environmental
Environmental offsets is   Environmental Foundation.   Foundation is established
effectively protected.     State of the Environment   and properly funded, and
report (mid-project period) by GoC fulfills its obligations
PSMC.                      to support the offsets.
4) Commercial poaching is   4) Environmental report by    4) Government strengthens
kept to a minimum in the   PSMC, with input from      poaching control in the area.
pipeline area.             MINEF (yearly).



18                                           Annex I
Outputs to Outcomes
Key Performance
Indicators     _   Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to
component:                                                                        Objective)
i) Enabling environment for   *  Norms and standards for  Report of legal consultant IAP Norms and standards have
environmental management for    all decrees are based on   reports.               been designed in a
the petroleum sector, including  international standards                           consensus-building mode.
regulatory framework, is in    adapted to the
place and disseminated, based  national/local context.
on consensus with all      4  Magistrates possess the   Training reports
stakeholders.                  necessary knowledge to
sanction infringement of
environmental policies
and apply the laws
consistently.
*  Transparency of         Surveys.                    The overall transparency of
processes in the                                   processes in the public
environmental and social                           sector in Cameroon has
areas is improved.                                 improved.
ii) Stakeholders are adequately *  Consistent information is Reports/articles
informed of the environmental  provided from
and social aspects of the      government to parliament
pipeline project.              and other national
partners.
* External stakeholders are Reports/articles
well informed.
iii) Public services are  4*  Level of competency of  Training Reports            Personnel remains in the
delivered in a fair, efficient and    public servants is                           public service after training
timely manner by provincial    increased.                                          has been received.
delegations of ministries  4*  Compensation has been   Government and COTCO        Government and sponsors
involved.                      paid in full after one year reports.               have paid their shares of the
of project.                                        compensation.
*  Reduction in delays of    PSMC reports              Sponsors agree to cooperate
Government intervention.                           to the inspections and allow
4  Compliance of the       EMIS and external monitoring fair measurements.
sponsors with national
laws is consistently high.
iv) Environmental status is    *  Quality of the       EMIS and external monitoring Sponsors implement
continuously monitored and     environment in the                                 adequately their share of the
progress in capacity is known.  pipeline influence area is                        EMP.
satisfactory.
*  Quality of information    IAP Reports               IAP has access to the critical
gathering is good.                                 information required from
the sponsors.



19                                          Annex I
Inputs to Outputs
Key Implementation      Monitoring & Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Indicators        I                          I
Project Components I Sub-    Inputs:  Indicators      Project reports            (from Components to
components:                   USS                                                Outputs)
1,000'
(rounded)
1. Development of an           1,400
enabling regulatory
framework
1.1. Draft decrees & carry out   140 12 decrees and    Decrees published
training                             regulations by
12/01. 50 staff
trained in the new
regulatory
framework by
7/02.
1.2. Long Term Vision Study      260 Study completed  Monthly progress report
by 7/04.         showing discussions with
PSMC
1.3. PPF repayment              1,000
2. Strengthening               2,800
coordination capacity
2.1. Permanent Secretariat      2,100 Three PSMC      Monthly progress reports    Staff is motivated.
experts trained (by IEC Evaluation (Mid-term and Incentives are
7/01):           ICR)                       appropriate. Working
Biophysical,     Study reports.             relationships between
Socio-economics,                            local staff, contractors,
Health.                                     and expatriate TA are
Study of zones at                           effective.
risk (Year 1).
Socio-economic
impact study (Year
5).
2.2. Field Units                 700 Eleven Field Unit Monthly progress reports.  Coordination among
staff trained (by                           technicians and
7/01):                                      communicators is
Biophysical (5),                            effective, as well as
Socio-economics                             between PSMC staff
(4), Health (2).                            and the administration.
3. Strengthening               5,400
intervention capacity                .
3.1. In health management        900 20 Health centers  Health Status Report (Mid-    Ministry of Health and
strengthened by   term and ICR). Health service contractor in charge of
7/02.            delivery reports published  this component are fully
(Mid-term and ICR).        effective.
3.2. Re: Oil Spill Response      700 Plan completed by Government Oil Spill
7/02.            Response Plan (Mid-term).



20                                          Annex I
Key Performance
Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Project Components I Sub-   Inputs:  Indicators      Project reports           (from Components to
components:                  US$                                                Outputs)
1,000'
(rounded)
3.3. In decentralized ministries  3,800 70 civil servants  PSMC monthly progress
trained by 7/02 in reports
natural resources
management, oil
spill response,
conflict
management, and
pollution
prevention and
management.
At least 80% of
civil servants that
have received
training under the
Project remain
with the Project.
4. Monitoring & Evaluation      800
4.1. Services of an             400 First report of    IAP Evaluation (Mid-term and Panel Members are well
International Advisory Panel        International    ICR)                       respected both locally
Advisory Panel   Annual reports received.  and internationally and
published by 7/01. Recommended actions taken.  cooperate efficiently.
4.2. Environmental              400 Project          Management Information
Management Information              management,      System report
System (EMIS) and Project           monitoring and    Environmental Monitoring
Management & Control                evaluation system  report
operational by
12/00. EMIS in
place by 7/01.



21
Annex 2: Project Description
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
The context
1.    The Project aims at developing the capacity of Cameroon to deal with environmental management
issues associated with the construction and operation of a system transporting oil by pipeline through
Cameroon from the Chadian frontier to the marine area near Kribi on the Cameroon Atlantic coast. More
specifically, the Project aims at strengthening existing and building additional capacity for the
implementation and monitoring of the mitigation measures defined by the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) for the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (PDPP). Cameroon needs to strengthen
the capacity of all its institutions dealing with the various impacts of the PDPP and to coordinate their
efforts in this endeavor.
2.    Environmental Management includes the full range of activities required to safeguard the afEcted
population and the affected natural environment against negative impacts. In that context, environmental
management includes nature conservation, but has a broader scope, including protecting human health and
minimizing local social conflicts.
3.    The GoC has made the strategic choice to have the EMP implemented centrally by one
coordinating body. This choice aims at ensuring maximum consistency in the activities of the various
administrations having precise mandates in this project, facilitating the contacts between the Government
and COTCO, the pipeline operator in Cameroon, through the selection of a single interlocutor, and
reaching maximum efficiency in situations where interventions are required quickly and need to be
implemented without any bureaucratic delay.
The institutional setup
4.    The main body responsible for the environmental management of the PDPP is the Pipeline
Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC), chaired by the Head of SNH, the national oil company. In
order to fulfill its mandates and responsibilities, the PSMC is organized into two branches: (a) the "Comite
de Suivi" (CS) which is the administering board and policy-maker, and (b) the Permanent Secretariat
(PSMC), which is the operational arm. The relationship between CS and PSMC is detailed in the
presidential order and will be included in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PSMC is
equipped with six different sections in charge of the various aspects of the PSMC's mandates, and three
field units. These sections are the following:
(a) An Environment, Route and Security (ERS) Section which will carry out the following:
* Provide an interface with the International Advisory Panel,
*  Coordinate all interventions related to environmental management for the pipeline,
* Manage the three field units,
* Provide an interface with the other units of the PSMC, in particular the Legal Unit (LS),
* Manage all the common functions (including oversight of the implementation of the
Compensation Plan, the Indigenous Peoples Plan - IPP - and of the Offsite Environmental
Enhancement Program - OEEP - as described in the EMP)
* Monitor the outcomes and the performance of the program.



22                                         Annex 2
(b) A Legal Section which oversees the preparation of the required regulations and procedures, and
reviews all legal aspects of the PSMC work program and activities,
(c) An Administration and Accounting Section,
(d) A Communication and Education Section which will be in charge of the projecVs Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) component,
(e) An Economics and Finance Section, and
(f) An Engineering and Local Resource Mobilization Section.
Field Units: Also, the PSMC will manage two terrestrial and one marine field unit during pipeline
construction, to fulfill its mandate to monitor the impacts of construction activities on the ground.
5.    The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the Compensation Plan (CP) of the PDPP,
which have been approved by Cameroon, identify the monitoring and control actions that are the
responsibility of the Government. These actions relate to the biophysical (soils, air, water) environment,
the socio-economic activities and health management. Also and as part of its oversight responsibility for
the Environmental Foundation (see annex 10), the Government will monitor all environmental
enhancement activities in the Campo and Mbam-Djerem National Parks and the implementation of the
Indigenous Peoples Plan.
6.    According to the EMP recommendations, the operator (COTCO) will establish three field-based
monitoring units, among which one will be oriented towards monitoring marine activities, for pipeline and
the off-shore facility construction. The PSMC will also equip itself with three field units each comprised
of three (3) specialists, one in each of the three intervention areas identified: biophysical impacts, socio-
economic impacts, and health management (the latter, only one person rotating from one field unit to the
other). Field units will be in charge of the daily monitoring of pipeline construction impacts, and thus will
develop two-way communication with the local administration and COTCO and, in particular, with
COTCO's monitoring units.
7.    The PSMC will oversee the implementation of the components of the capacity building program:
procurement and management of equipment and supplies, logistical support, training program, and
technical assistance. The coordination section (ERS) is the focal point for Government activities to
implement its responsibilities for the mitigation of the environmental and social impacts of the PDPP.
Project components
8.    The components and sub-components of CAPECE are as follows.
I. Strengthening the institutional, regulatory and legal framework:
1. 1. Drafting, dissemination and enforcement of implementing regulations.
1.2. Long Term Vision study.
II. Strengthening of coordination capacities:
I. 1. Central coordination at the Permanent Secretariat of PSMC, including IEC activities.
11.2. PSMC Field Units.
III. Strengthening of public intervention capacities:
111. 1. Public health management.
111.2. Oil Spill Response Planning: Plan and implementation.
111.3. Support to decentralized administrations.
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E):
IV. 1. International Advisory Panel.
IV.2. Environmental management, performance and capacity monitoring systems.



23                                         Annex 2
Project Component 1 - Development of an enabling regulatory framework
Cost: US$ 1.3 million (including the repayment of the PPF), IDA funding:
US$ 1.25 million.
9.    The country presently faces three difficult challenges in managing the environment in the
petroleum sector: (i) the lack of implementation decrees for most of the environmental legislation that has
been passed recently, (ii) the lack of clear procedures for delivering permits and authorizations to the
pipeline sponsors, and (iii) the lack of technical and financial resources in Government to carry out the
program of environmental monitoring and promote poverty alleviation through the PDPP. CAPECE's
first component addresses the first two challenges by developing enabling regulations and procedures for
environmental protection in the petroleum sector. It will also design a long tenn vision for environmental
management in the petroleum sector in Cameroon.
(a) Preparation and publication of the required implementation decrees.
Cost: US$ 0.14 million.
10.   The implementation of the 1996 environmental law (96/12) and other environmental protection-
related laws that have been enacted as a follow up of the National Environmental Management Plan
(NEMP) is hampered by the lack of appropriate implementing regulations. CAPECE will assist in the
drafting and development of implementation decrees and strengthening enforcement capacity of all
agencies involved in pipeline impact monitoring. The list of priority implementation decrees to be
published is given below (Box 1).
Box 1: High priority decrees to be prepared and published on environmental management in
the petroleum sector in Cameroon include:
The following decrees and orders for the implementation of the Borrower's Law No. 96/12
dated August 5, 1996 "portant Loi-cadre relatif a la gestion de l'Environnement":
(i) articles 17-19: implementation modalities for carrying out an environmental impac
assessment;
(ii) articles 31 and 33: implementing modalities related to measures to prevent and fight al
marine pollution coming from vessels and facilities located on or off shore;
(iii) article 36: implementation modalities concerning prevention of pollution of soil and sub-
soil;
(iv) articles 43 and 47: implementation modalities concerning waste management;
(v) articles 21, 30.1, and 38: implementation modalities related to the conditions and
requirements for the release of pollutants in air, water, soil and sub-soil, including inland
waters;
(vi) articles 57.1 and 58: implementation modalities related to chemical toxic aid/or hazardous
substances; and
(vii) articles 60 and 61: implementation modalities related to noise and odor nuisances.



24                                          Annex 2
(Box 1 continued)
* The following decrees and orders for the implementation of the Borrower's Law No.
98/15, dated July 14, 1998, related to "etablissements classes dangereux, insalubres et
incommodes",:
(i) article 7: norms related to the delimitation of the safety perimeter for"etablissements
classes";
(ii) article 18: conditions of certification of civil servants in charge of inspection of
" etablissements classes"; and
(iii) article 20: conditions of certification of individual experts and organizations to perform
controls and audits of " etablissements classes", and certification of laboratories to monitor
the quantity and quality of effluents produced by" etablissements classes".
* The regulations for the implementation of the Borrower's Law No. 96/11 dated August 5,
1996, articles 5 and 1O, related to "normalisation" and concerning the list of substances
whose spilling, immersion and incineration in marine waters are prohibited.
11.   The preparation of these implementing regulations will be done through close coordination among
all governmental agencies involved in environmental management and protection and legal instruments
drafting. Workshops will be organized to discuss the draft regulations at various stages to ensure large
and adequate participation of stakeholders, administrative commitment, and future applicability and
implementation of the proposed regulations.
12.   A training program  for staff involved in environmental monitoring and environmental law
enforcement is being prepared in the framework of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and will be
implemented during the course of the project. Dissemination and public information campaigns on the
published regulations will be organized under the IEC component. Material related to environmental law
requirements and enforcement will be disseminated among all interested stakeholders.
13.   The completion of the legal component will require the recruitment and assistance of two
international consultants, one specialized in environmental norms and standards, the other one specialized
in environmental law. A team of national consultants which will benefit from the short-term support of an
international environmental law expert will be necessary. Terms of references for this purpose have been
prepared by PSMC and agreed by the Bank. A total of 6 person-months of international consultants will
be needed.
(b) Development of a Long Term Vision for environmental management of
the petroleum sector. Cost: US$ 0.26 million.
14.   The management of the environmental and social impacts of the petroleum sector can only be
sustainable when the Government of Cameroon has decided on its optimal institutional setup and put it in
place. A study, to be carried out in year 3 of the project, will help develop this long term vision. It will
assess the present institutions and their performance, develop scenarios on alternative institutional setups,
and provide the decision makers with the elements and information required to choose among the
scenarios. The terms of reference for this study will be included in the PIM. It will require the input of 6
person-months of international consultants and 6 person-months of national consultants.



25                                         Annex 2
Project Component 2 - Strengthening Coordination Capacity for
Environmental Management
Cost: US$ 2.8 million, IDA funding: US$ 1.04 million.
15.   The coordination provided under the Pipeline Steering and MonitoriDg Committee will include:
*  Technical coordination of the field interventions (health, biophysical and socio-economic
impact management),
*  Ensuring liaison with the sponsors, and
*  Implementing an IEC strategy, including HIV/AIDS prevention and community care of
affected and infected people, to keep all the stakeholders informed of the progress
accomplished.
16.   During the pipeline construction, the field units and the strengthened central PSMC staff will
include 14 key professionals and a reasonable number of support personnel (see PSMC's organigram
below). The staff will be placed at the disposal of the project by Government departments for the duration
of the project. The terms of reference of the professional positions are being drafted by the central PSMC
unit and will be included in the PIM. Positions will be advertised within the administration, and the
selected candidates will be placed at the disposal of PSMC. The capacity of the whole staff in PSMC and
the concerned administrations will be increased through specialized training, and logistical support will be
provided. A training plan is being prepared and will be included in the PIM. Incentives are being
developed to ensure that the trained staff put the training they receive to the best use for the project. In
areas where national staff cannot be found, technical assistance by international consultants may be
provided.
17.   The increased capacity will be primarily located in the field, where the actual environmental
impacts should be avoided or mitigated. A light coordinating capacity will also be built at the central
PSMC level, in order to facilitate cross-sectoral cooperation. Also, at PSMC central level, capacity for
information, education and communication (IEC) on the themes developed by CAPECE will be enhanced,
in coordination with the communication strategy of COTCO.
(a) Central Coordination. Cost: US$ 2.1 million.
18.    The specific tasks related to the environmental activities will be caried out by a team of high-level
specialists to be located in the Environment, Routing and Security section (ERS) of the Permanent
Secretariat of PSMC. The specialists will cover the whole range of bio-physical, socio-economic and
health management skills required for the implementation of the EMP (see box 2). They will report to the
Permanent Secretary of PSMC and work closely with the Communication Division of SNH on the IEC
sub-component. The cost of logistical support to the central coordinating unit over the project period is
estimated at US$ 2.1 million.
Box 2: General skills required in the central unit:
  one biophysical specialist (environmentalist, fauna and flora, pollution management),
.  one socio-economic specialist (population, local development, conflict resolution), and
*  one human health (public health management) specialist familiar with HIV/AIDS epidemic.



26                                                                                                      Annex 2
Presidence
SNH
Ressources Humaines et
des Affaires Gendrales
Direction Financiere
Division Juridique
.. ... Division   de  la  Communication   ............................. .....................
Figure 1: Organigram  of PSMC
Comite de Suivi
Secretariat Permanent
Secretaire Permanent
Section Environnement                                        Section Administration et      Section Ingenierie et                                                 Section
Trace et Securite             Section Economie et               Comptabilit6             mobilisation des Ressources       Section Conseil Juridique       Communication et
Finance                                              locales                                                               Education
Bio-Physicien                    Economiste (s)              _Comptable                        Ing6nieurs                       Juriste (s)                     gents de IEC
_Socio-Economiste                   Analystes (s)                -Agent d'Achat               |                                     Personnel de soutien
-Expert en Gestion Sante            Financiers (s)              _Logisticiens (s)
-Assistants (e) Techniques                                        -Agent de compensation
Techniciens                                                  _Archiviste et Comptable Matieres
Personnel de soutien                                         _Personnel de soutien
_.  I                         I                           I                          I
Unite sur le Terrain      Unite sur le Terrain       Unite sur le Terrain           Equipe en
(Terrestre)               (Terrestre)                (M aritime)                    Reserve
Effets Bio-Physiques       Effets Bio-Physiques        Effets Bio-Physiques            Effets Bio-Physiques
Economie-sociale           Economie-sociale            Economie-sociale                Economie-sociale
Gestion-Sante
Environnement Marine



27                                             Annex 2
(b) Field Units. Cost: US$ 0.7 million.
19.    The three field units will have the same mix of skills as the central one, with a focus on natural
resource management because of the nature of the environmental issues in the field (pollution expertise
will be managed centrally and made available to the field units on request). The field units will manage
their own logistics and their activities will be coordinated by one of the technical specialists. The major
responsibility of the field units will be to monitor COTCO's performance and to ensure that inspection and
control activities that need to be performed by Government agencies are indeed conducted in a timely and
technically/ scientifically acceptable manner. The cost of logistical support and local consultant services
for the field units is estimated at US$ 0.7 million.
Box 3: General skills required in each field unit:
*  one biophysical specialist (environmentalist, fauna and flora) full-time,
.  one socio-economic specialist (population, local development, conflict resolution) full-time, and
*  one human health (public health) specialist moving from one unit to another as needed.
The central unit will contract locally for specialized services when needed. The project also makes
provision for contracting for expert services in at least the following areas:
-  Conducting a planning study of sites likely to be impacted by the construction of fixed facilities
("zones at risk").
-  Providing support to and monitoring the activities of the Environmental Foundation with respect to the
implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Plan.
-  Providing support and monitoring of the impact of pipeline construction on cultural heritage, with
particular reference to archaeological impacts.
i  Conducting a socio-economic study with beneficiary participation to assess the impacts of pipeline
construction on project affected people.
20.    The field units will be responsible for a small number of direct interventions, e.g., advising
COTCO on technical matters that need immediate attention or that are of minor importance. The bulk of
the activities of the field units, however, will be to ensure proper liaison with the relevant local
representatives of governmental agencies (MINEF, MMWE, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social
Affairs, Transportation) to encourage them to enforce the applicable standards, regulations and laws in
their respective areas of competence and fulfill their responsibilities. This activity will include contacting
the proper administrative unit, presenting requests in a proper format, following through to ensure a quick
response to the request (administrative authorization, or technical control) and recording the results of the
intervention in the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.
21.    The field units will work closely with local representatives of these governmental agencies that
will be involved during the construction and the operation of the project. In cases where local expertise is
insufficient, specialists from central services of governmental agencies will intervene or private experts
will be contracted. The field unit staff will be selected on the basis of their field experience and their
ability to work with other staff from the decentralized and central technical services of GoC. The staffing
of the field units will require a total of 13 specialists (3 teams of three people each + 1 backup team + 1
specialist in marine environment), adequate transport and communication equipment. Selection of staff for
these positions will be subject to Bank approval.



28                                         Annex 2
22.   The activities to be undertaken jointly between the Field Units and the various agencies involved
in environmental management and protection within the government of Cameroon are described below.
Biophysical environment.
23.   The activities include:
* monitoring atmospheric emissions;
* monitoring wastewater management;
* control of the hydraulic tests of the pipeline;
* protection of surface and underground water resources;
* protection of soils against erosion;
* protection of vegetation and fauna;
* monitoring of the activities of the offsite environmental management programs;
* monitoring marine outlets and assuring protection of the marine environment; and
* assessing the biophysical risk.
During the construction phase, the emphasis will be on administrative surveillance and permanent control
of works; during operations, the emphasis will be on the control of the consequences on the environment.
Socio-economic activities.
24.   The activities include:
* monitoring the implementation of the Compensation Plan;
* assisting local authorities to manage the consequences of population movements related to the
construction activities;
* promoting the participation, as relevant, of Cameroonian Small and Medium Enterprises
(SME);
- monitoring the recruitment and training plans of COTCO;
- control of the respect of the Right Of Way, and of the conditions of its utilization during the
operational phase;
- the protection of cultural, archaeological and religious sites, and the proper handling of
archaeological chance finds; and
* the monitoring of IPP activities.
Socio-economic staff in the field units will be trained in the process of conflict resolution using the most
modern techniques. The skills acquired in these training sessions will be used during the course of
working with the local communities located in the area of influence of the pipeline. The conflict
resolution skills will be particularly useful in managing the relationship between the crew of operators'
workers and local dwellers.
Health Management.
25.  The activities of the health specialist cocrdinator in the field units (one specialist will cover the
three field units on a rotating basis) will include:



29                                          Annex 2
* monitoring the health status of citizens in the regions traversed by the pipeline;
* identifying the needs for interventions from the Ministry of Health to improve the health
status and decrease any negative health impacts of the pipeline's construction and operation;
*  monitoring the implementation of COTCO's health-related interventions, including the
community health management outreach, and the health aspects of the Indigenous Peoples
Plan;
*  liaising with the biophysical and the socioeconomic experts to identify possible health issues
(e.g. from poor drinking water quality) as early as possible, before negative impacts occur;
*  liaising with local UNAIDS bureau to better respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic; and
*  facilitating emergency interventions.
This specialist will move from one field unit to another and will not be attached to any particular field unit
during the construction of the pipeline.
(c) Training (cost included in the above figures)
26.    Training will be provided to PSMC staff, as well as to staff of involved Government institutions
(see component 3). A total of over 100 professionals will receive short training sessions, mainly provided
on-the-job in Cameroon. The training will be coordinated by the PSMC Permanent Secretariat (with the
assistance of the Human Resources Unit of SNH), where feasible, with the training provided by COTCO
to their field staff and with that provided for the Chadian counterparts (CTNSC), under the Chad
Petroleum Sector Capacity Building project, to maximize synergies. A total budget of US$ 700,000 has
been allocated for training.
27.    Training will be provided for the following specialities/skills: (i) envircnmental and petroleum
specialists (environmental management concepts and methods, environmental assessment and review,
environmental monitoring, design and implementation of environmental mitigating measures), (ii) health
specialists (environmental health, including HIV/AIDS monitoring and mitigation), (iii) socio-economic
specialists (surveys and monitoring of income, design and monitoring of compensation schemes), (iv)
administrative officers (financial management, procurement, disbursement capacity), (v) magistrates and
other employees of the judicial system to strengthen their ability to ensure compliance with the new legal
and regulatory framework on environment for the petroleum sector and (vi) all the specialists involved in
the project (management, office technology, networking, English language, knowledge management).
Training will be provided to the three field units as well as to headquarters staff of the Permanent
Secretariat.  As relevant, the audience in training sessions will incorporate contractors and other
stakeholders to facilitate communication between these groups and PSMC.
28.    The priority will be on hands-on training in Cameroon. For training activities where no supply is
available in Cameroon, a limited number of training sessions may be organized abroad. Participants to
these sessions will commit themselves to remaining at the service of the project for at least 3 years after
completion of the training. A full Training Plan will be incorporated into the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM), to be prepared before effectiveness.



30                                          Annex 2
Box 4: List and schedule of training activities
Information on the EMP (project launching soon after effectiveness)
Environmental Management Information Systems (2000)
Legal training (2000)
Pollution inspectors (2000)
Training for coast guards (2001)
Implementation of the new environmental protection decrees (2000-2001)
Implementation of the Government Oil Spill Plan (2001)
Languages and Information Technology (2000 and 2001)
Health, including HIV/AIDS, training (2000-4)
Training for IEC (2000-4)
(d) Information, Education, and Communication (cost included in the above
figures)
29.   The IEC activities financed under the project will include:
* Outreach to foreign stakeholders;
C Communication with the the project affected population, NGOs, Exxon, COTCO and related
companies, the rest of the Government and the general public;
lEC strategy preparation, and
* Setting up and maintenance of an Internet site and a Knowledge Management System.
30.   Logistical and training requirements for the IEC activities have been assessed and a budget of
US$ 200,000 has been allocated to that sub-component. The health management sub-component has its
own IEC activities which are additional to the US$ 200,000.
Project Component 3 - Strengthening Intervention Capacity for
Environmental Management
Cost: US$ 5.4 million, IDA funding: US$ 2.71 million.
31.   This component of CAPECE supports the implementation of the EMP by supplying Cameroonian
agencies with the equipment, the skills and the working environment that will allow them to perform their
basic functions in a rapid response mode and efficiently. Key sub-components are:
* Health management,
* Government Oil Spill Response Planning and Implementation, and
* Capacity Building in decentralized services of the Cameroonian Administration.
(a) Health management. Cost: US$ 0.9 million.
32.   During pipeline construction, COTCO will take responsibility for work-related health issues,
while the Republic of Cameroon will need to deal with public health issues that might otherwise generate
diseases or injuries associated with the pipeline project among the neighboring population. Principal
concerns are the possible transmission of vector and sexually transmitted diseases (especially HIV/AIDS),
traffic and other injuries, and potential project impacts on food supply and nutrition.



31                                        Annex 2
33.   Although HIV/AIDS prevalence in Cameroon is moderate in comparison to eastern and southern
Africa (the most recent estimates are an average prevalence of 7% in Cameroon), the problem reaches
major proportions in certain population subgroups (truckers 15%, sex workers up to 20%), according to
available statistics. Cameroon does not yet have a national HIV/AIDS strategy; the Bank intends to
pursue this issue in the context of the forthcoming CAS discussions. The appropriate strategy in this
situation is to focus on prevention and on changing the behavior of the groups at the highest risk.
Construction workers, casual labor, truckers and suppliers, and camp followers will be the target groups
for the HIV/AIDS prevention program under the PDPP and CAPECE. COTCO will conduct a program of
health education and immunizations, including subsidized sale of condoms. HIV/AIDS status will be
monitored through an Epidemiological Information System and a Sentinel Surveillance System
established for workers. COTCO will also implement a Community Health Outreach Program focusing
on information, education, and other targeted health activities.
34.   To complement these activities carried out by COTCO, under CAPECE, the Ministry of Health
will strengthen its statistical data collection and processing, provide training to community health workers,
and improve the delivery of community health services by providing vaccines, medications, and
laboratory analysis services and supplies in 10 health districts located along the length of the pipeline
route. Specifically with respect to HIV/AIDS, the Government will also contract with an experienced
local NGO to deliver a program of information, education, and social marketing in the project area, under
the supervision of the National AIDS Committee. The cost of this program over five years is estimated at
US $140,000. There will also be coordination with UNAIDS and their sentinel site monitoring.
(b) Government Oil Spill Response Planning and Implementation
Cost: US$ 0.7 million.
3 5.   The Government of Cameroon needs to undertake activities to complement the efforts of COTCO
in preventing and mitigating environmental and social impacts. In particular, COTCO has prepared a
General Oil Spill Response Plan and will prepare Area Specific plans which will require coordinated
actions on the part of the GoC. A study will design a national emergency response plan against accidental
(terrestrial or marine) pollution by hydrocarbons. This. study will be carried out by a combination of
international and national consultants with the full involvement of all potential stakeholders.
36.   The terms of reference of this feasibility study have been drafted and will be annexed to the PIM.
A copy is available in the project files.
(c)   Capacity  Building  in  decentralized services  of the  Cameroonian
Administration. Cost: US$ 3.8 million.
37.   The relevant ministries, including those in charge of Environnent, Mines, Urban Affairs, and
Transport, will be strengthened through training, networking and logistical support. The target for
training and equipment financing is the field staff in the decentralized administrative units along the route
of the pipeline. That staff will have a key role to play in providing directly the assistance needed to
monitor and mitigate the environmental and social impacts, in a coordinated way, upon call from the field
units of PSMC. Given the limited extent of practical and effective interministerial coordination in the field
in Cameroon, much of the initial work of the field units of PSMC will be to set up a framework for such
cooperation.



32                                        Annex 2
38.   The agencies involved in the implementation of the project will benefit from the pirchase,
operation and maintenance of needed equipment. The equipment will include (i) office equipment
(computers, modems, cellular phones, radios, fax machines), (ii) vehicles, and, (iii) specialized equipment
for measuring and monitoring environmental impacts. The Permanent Secretariat of PSMC will retain the
overall management and allocation of the equipment financed under this project. It will grant permission
to the respective collaborating Government institutions to use the equipment on the basis of a pre-
established monthly program, periodically inspect the stock and obtain periodic reports on the use,
location and the state of the equipment funded under the project. Recurrent costs of the equipment will be
funded by SNH for the duration of the project
39.   The cost of training for decentralized agency staff is included in the training cost given under
component 2. Logistic support, including recurrent costs, for decentralized agency staff is estimated at
US$ 4.1 million over the life of the project. In this amount, US$ 1.0 is allocated for local consultancy
services, such as private laboratory analyses and short interventions by qualified local experts in specific
fields.
Project Component 4 - Project management, monitoring and evaluation
Cost: US$ 0.8 million, IDA funding: US$ 0.77 million
(a) Services of an International Advisory Panel. Cost: US$ 0.4 million.
40.   The services of an International Advisory Panel (IAP) will be contracted by PSMC/SP/ERS on
behalf of the GOC. Services are anticipated to be required in the following fields: (i) biophysical
environment - generalist, (ii) biophysical environment -marine biology, (iii) socio-economy, and (iv)
environmental health. The composition of the IAP may vary over the years, according to the priority
areas to be covered. The experts will be mobilized from a specialized company or university, with a
minimum of one visit per year. The IAP will report to the PSMC/SP and the Committee itself as required.
The Panel's annual reports will be supplied to the PSMC/SP and will be officially approved and thereafter
made public. Copies will be made available to the Bank. The initial terms of reference (first year) and the
experts' profiles will be included in the Project Implementation Manual. The IAP will work very closely
with UNAIDS. The cost of IAP intervention is estimated at about US$ 400,000 over the five-year period.
(b) Project Management and Control. Cost: US$ 0.4 million.
41.   The project will fund the establishment, operation and maiitenance of:
* An Environmental Management Information System (EMIS) which will compile the
information gathered by the project and external partners on the state of the environment, health
and livelihood indicators in the pipeline influence area, and disseminate it to GoC as well as
external stakeholders.
* A management, monitoring and evaluation system (MIS) that will monitor the enabling
activities planned in the CAPECE and evaluate if capacity is being built. It will also monitor all
actions to be undertaken by the government for a sound environment management.
Both systems are being developed jointly and with the same approach in Chad and in Cameroon to ensure
maximum compatibility.
42.   The EMIS will compile the information gathered by the project and extenal partners on the state
of the environment, health and livelihood indicators in the pipeline influence area, and disseminate it to



33                                          Annex 2
the government as well as external stakeholders. The design and development of EMIS will be finalized
during the first year of CAPECE implementation. For that purpose, two consultants (a designer, likely an
international consultant, and a developer, likely a national consultant) will be hired. The system will be
designed according to the following principles: (i) sharing of technical data (measures of environmental
indicators on biophysical, health and socio-economic topics) between stakeholders (government and
COTCO mainly) through a common database maintained by COTCO or, if found appropriate, by an
external sub-contractor; (ii) organization of data will follow the structure of the EMP (biophysical, socio-
economic and health themes subdivided into topics); (iii) production of detailed technical periodic reports
listing all data on the environmental impact of the pipeline shared in the common database; and (iv)
communication of an environment report to all partners (NGOs, Government, international partners,
donors, etc.) through summary tables available on a Web site and periodically published by the
government or, if found appropriate, by an external sub-contractor.
43.   Management, Monitoring and Evaluation system. The project MIS will (i) enable a sound
planning of activities to be undertaken within a comprehensive logical framework; (ii) set mutually
agreed, realistic and clear objectives for each activity and measure gaps between actual and targeted
values of these indicators; (iii) respond to the needs of the PSMC regarding the management, monitoring
and evaluation of the project activities and the supervision, implementation and monitoring of the EMP
and (iv) produce a variety of reports adapted, to the extent possible, to the needs of the various
stakeholders in order to present relevant information in a synthetic and ready to use manner, that will feed
into the IEC activities. The design of the system, which is already underway, is being finalized and will
be described in the PIM. An important feature of the system will be its link with the financial and
accounting system that will enable a comparison of financial data with technical outputs. Operation of the
system will be under the responsibility of a monitoring and evaluation specialist whose terms of reference
are to ensure that procedures for planning, monitoring and evaluation are implemented according the
manual; and to produce each periodic report, in accordance with the procedures set-up for the monitoring
and evaluation, identifying activities where there are discrepancies between amount disbursed and
physical output, identifying the reasons for such discrepancies, and eventually suggesting solutions to the
identified problems.
44.   Annual technical and financial audits of project management will be conducted. A financial
analysis will be conducted at mid-term to evaluate progress towards cost-effectiveness of the
organizations in place.



34                                                 Annex 2



35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
Local        Foreign      Total
Project Cost                US $million    US $million  US $million
Total Baseline Cost                         5.90          4.10        10.00
Physical Contingencies                    0.13          0.13         0.26
Price Contingencies                       0.27          0.37         0.64
Total Project Costs                         6.30          4.60        10.90
Total IDA Financing                         2.00          3.77        5.77
Local    Foreign     Total
Project Cost By Category         US $million US $million US $million
Transport equipment                           0.10       0.40        0.50
Other equipment                               0.10       0.20        0.30
Services & Training                           0.90       3.10        4.00
Incremental Operating Costs                   5.20       0.90        6.10
Total ProjectCosts   6.30      4.60       10.90
Total IDA Financing    2.00    3.77        5.77






37
Annex 4: Financial Summary
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
Years Ending
The Government    IDA                  Total    Foreign     Local    Taxes &
Amount      %      Amount      %       Amount       %      Currency   Currency    Duties
A. Equipment and vehicles
Equipment                                                  0        0      315.6     100        315.6     3.7      220.9       94.7    (171.9)
Vehicles                                                   0        0      437.0     100        437.0      4.8      371.5      65.6    (205.0)
Equipment Subtotal, vehicles and materials                   0        0      752.6     100        752.6      8.5      592.4      160.2    (376.8)
B. Consultant services                                       0        0    5,013.5      100     5,013.5    41.8    3,109.8    1,903.7    (537.4)
C. Operating Costs                                      5,235.0   100.0          -        -     5,235.0    49.8      939.9    4,295.1   (1,379.4)
TOTAL                                                 5,235.0    47.6    5,766.1     52.4    11,001.1    100.0    4,642.1    6,359.0  (2,293.6)
Totals, including Contingencies
2001      2002       2003       2004       2005       Total
1. Consultant services             2,847.8    1,144.5     581.7      471.5      505.4     5,550.9
2. Equipment                   -    412.8        39.0       11.6      11.9       12.2       487.5
3. Vehicles                          455.4      186.6         -          -          -       642.0
4. Operating Costs                  1,180.5    1,314.3    1,411.2    1,357.1    1,351.3    6,614.4
TOTAL                               4,896.4    2,684.5    2,004.5    1,840.5    1,868.9    11,001.1



38                                             Annex 5



39                                      Annex 5
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CAMEROON Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
1.    General. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Cameroon was carried out in
1993, showing that procurement procedures in Cameroon do not conflict with Bank Guidelines. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Cameroon's
procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. Under NCB, the procedures
should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are made known to all
bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for
preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in
bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not
precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-
determined and transparent methods ; (vii) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any
non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents
prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are submitted to IDA and found acceptable. A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations Development, to advertise for
major consulting assignments and any ICB. Publication of a GPN in the national press or official gazette is
also required for NCB. The program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and
procurement methods for the five-year duration of the project are summarized in Table A below. Consultant
selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized in Tables Al and
B below.
2.    Goods financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), and
Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. To the extent
feasible, contracts for vehicles and computer equipment will be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
US$ 250,000 equivalent or more each. Procurement of computer equipment and vehicles would be preferably
carried out under single responsibility contracts. Procurement through IAPSO may be envisaged for vehicles.
Other goods (mainly office supplies and communications equipment) will be procured through NCB
procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.413 million. For National Shopping, for individual contracts
of less than US$ 20,000 and an aggregate amount of US$ 55,000, the Borrower would seek price quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers.
3.    Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997
revised in September 1997, and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank,
will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e.
those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. The Government has been
briefed during appraisal and negotiations about the features of the new Consultants Guidelines, in particular
with regards to advertisement and bid opening. Consulting services financed by IDA would be for (i) studies,
supervision, support of project implementation, financial management support, and financial audits; and (ii)
consultancies on technical matters and training. Selection of consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$ 5.55
million, would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost evaluation by
weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The coordination unit would ensure widely publicized



40                                        Annex 5
procurement notice to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed upon criteria, the executing agency
will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short-lists.
4.     Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature, the Least-Cost
Selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price being selected
provided its technical proposal received the minimum qualifying mark. Consultants services for small and
simple services (estimated to cost less than US$30.000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000) would be based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), based on the consultants' experience and
competence relevant to the assignment. Services for lectures and small studies, for a total amount of
US$90,000 which can be delivered by individuals, would be selected through comparison of qualifications
among Individual Consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. Single
Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used for training provided the aggregate amount of such
contracts does not exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 over the project life. Short-lists of consultants for
contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient
number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms
have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration.
5.    IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$50,000 equivalent for
goods will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover 97% of the contract
amounts for works, goods, and consultants -- see Table B below. Selective post-review of contracts awarded
below the threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff --
using audits, and other consultants, as necessary.
6.    Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
Borrower. Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, short-lists,
selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts.
Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated
to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the
Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a
critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the
above-mentioned prior review thresholds. For all consultant contracts subject to prior review (estimated
above US$50,000), opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-
objection to the technical evaluation. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds
will be maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. For
training abroad, the program - containing names of candidates, cost estimates, content of courses, periods of
training and selection of training institutions - will be reviewed by IDA annually.
7.    Frequency of procurement supervision missions. One supervision mission every twelve months
will include special procurement supervision for post-review/audits. The procurement specialist at the World
Bank resident mission in Yaounde will be in permanent contact with the project staff.
8.    Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase aggregate cost by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA's prior no-
objection for the proposed modification.
9.    Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements.  National bidding
procedures for public procurement in Cameroon need to be improved. Staff still need training and guidance
by consultants and by the Resident Mission. Procurement would be managed by one executing agency: the



41                                       Annex 5
Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC) under the trusteeship of the Societ6 Nationale des
Hydrocarbures (SNH). The agency will include a procurement specialist assigned to this project and would
use consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks. An assessment of the capacity of PSMC was carried
out during appraisal. The existing staff of PSMC has been found acceptable. The Government will submit a
short list of at least three candidates for each position and, with IDA approval, will appoint the project
accountant and the procurement specialist. The PSMC will be reinforced by (i) upgrading the skills of the
staff in the PSMC; (ii) training of backup staff (procurement specialists, accountants) recruited among the
staff of PSMC; and (iii) on an exceptional basis, hiring of short-term consultants.
10.   Procedures Manual. Within the framework of CAPECE implementation, the SNH procurement
procedures will be upgraded in compliance with IDA's requirements. To this extent, a procurement
procedures manual will be built on the existing SNH procedures and will include: (i) procedures for calling
for bids, selecting consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts; (ii) internal organization for supervision
and control, including operational guidelines defining the role of the executing agency and reporting
requirements and (iii) disbursement procedures. A final version of the Procedures Manual acceptable to IDA
will be completed by effectiveness.
11.    Prior to project effectiveness, the Government will review and agree with IDA on: (a) a procurement
plan for the first year; (b) the Procedures Manual; (c) standard bidding documents to be used under NCB
procedures for goods; and (d) a plan for training the PS and PSMC's staff. During negotiations, the
Government has provided assurances that it will: (a) use the Procedures Manual; (b) use the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the
Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (d)
update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to compare
target times and actual completion, indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement, revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of
allowances for contingencies, as well as revised timing of estimated procurement actions, and transmit it to
IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related documents; (e) carry out, during annual reviews, an
assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's
procurement experience, and propose for IDA's consideration any modification to the current procedures to
the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments; and (f) take the necessary measures to
ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Proeurement Phase$              Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents        4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders           4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                 2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                      2
Payments                               3



42                                           Annex 5
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(In US$ 000 equivalent - tax included)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                 Costs (including contingencies)               Total
(Amount IDA financed)
ICB        NCB         Other        N.B.F
1. Goods                          642.0        412.8        74.7                    1,129.5
______________________   (437.0)  (260.3)    (55.3)                    (752.6)
Equipment                                    412.8        74.7                      487.5
(260.3)      (55.3)                    (315.6)
Vehicles                        642.0                                               642.0
(437.0)                                            (437.0)
2. Services
Consulting Services &          3,880.5     1,558.7       111.7                    5,550.9
Training
(3,523.9)   (1,395.5)     (94.1)                  (5,013.5)
3. Operating Costs                                                    6,614.4       6,614.4
(0)           (0)
Total                             4,522.5     1,971.5       186.4     6,614.4      13,294.8
(3,960.9)   (1,655.8)    (149.4)        (0)       (5,766.1)
Notes: a.      Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
b.     ICB = International Competitive Bidding
c.     NCB = National Competitive Bidding
d.     Other procurement methods include shopping, selection of consultants following IDA guidelines,
expenditures following Government's administrative procedures acceptable to IDA, and direct
purchasing of goods.
e.     N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
f.     "Goods" includes purchase of equipment, related supplies, and vehicles.
g.     Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation,
management and supervision, including office supplies, communication costs, and travel allowance of
project staff, but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants.



43                                          Annex 5
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(In US$ million equivalent - tax included)
A. Firms
Generally                   4.88                                                      4.88
Audits & Standard Nature               0.18                                           0.18
Small contracts<$30,000                           0.20                                0.20
Training                                                     0.20                     0.20
B. Individuals
All                                               0.09                                0.09
TOTAL       4.88       0.18       0.29       0.20                    5.55
Note
QCBS =           Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
LCS              Least-Cost Selection.
CQ =             Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications.
Other =          Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, and Single Sourcing.
N.B.F. =         Not Bank-financed.



44                                     Annex 5
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(Amount in US$)
Expenditure      Contract Value    Procurement    Contracts Subject to
Category        (Threshold)        Method      Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value in US$ million
1. Goods         US$50,000 and      ICB           US$0.437 m/ US$0.437 m
above
Between US$20,000  NCB          US$0.260 m/ US$0.260 m
and US$50,000
Below US$20,000    3 quotations   US$ 0.0 m/US$0.055 m
(national)
2a. Consulting   US$50,000 and      QCBS +        US$4.920 m/ US$4.920 m
Firms            above              Short List    Technical evaluation
receives IDA non-objection
before opening financial
proposals.
Below US$30,000    CQ
Below US$30,000    Single Source
for training
Below US$50,000                 Short lists may be comprised
entirely of national firms if
there are at least three
reliable national firms
2b. Individual   US$50,000 and      Comparison   US$0.0 m/ US$0.0 m
Consultants      above              of at least 3
CVs
Below US$50,000    Comparison   US$0.0 m/US$0.090 m
of at least 3
3. Operating Costs  NA              NA            NA
4. Miscellaneous   NA               NA            NA
Total Value of                                    US$ 5.617 m/US$ 5.766 m
Contracts Subject                                 (or 97% of the total value of
to Prior Review:                                  contracts)



45                                      Annex 5
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in             Disbursement
(US$ million)
1. Equipment, Vehicles, and           0.680  100% of foreign expenditures and
Supplies                                     85% of local expenditures
2. Consultant Services (including     4.050  100%
auditing), and Training
3. PPF Repayment                       1.000  Amount due
4. Unallocated and Contingencies      0.040
Total        5.770
12.   Disbursement Procedures. Disbursements will be made in accordance with the procedures and
policies outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
13.   Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Expenditures under contracts for goods, consulting
firms and individual consulting services valued at less than US$ 50,000; training valued at less than US$
30,000 will be claimed for financing using SOEs. Documents verifying expenditures under SOE procedures
shall be retained, for review by IDA Supervision Missions and independent audit, at project offices
14.   Special Account. There will be one special account in CFAF opened at a bank acceptable to IDA,
which will be managed by PSMC. The Authorized Allocation of IDA funds to this account will be US$
300,000 equivalent. Upon effectiveness, 50% of the authorized allocation ($150,000 equivalent) will be
deposited in this account. Once disbursements from the account total 800,000 SDR, the $150,000 balance of
the Authorized Allocation will be deposited. The PSMC special account will finance expenditures under
categories 1 and 2.
1S.   The Special Account will be managed on an imprest basis, using acceptable accounting records
suitable for managing imprest accounts. The executing agency will keep accounting, procurement, and
reporting records suitable for the project components. The financial statements will be prepared and project
accounts consolidated by PSMC for the public management component, and will prepare monthly withdrawal
applications for replenishment of the Special Account, regardless of the level of activity during the month.
IDA will replenish directly the special account.
16.   Minimum Value for Direct Payments and Issuance of Special Commitments (SCs). Direct
payment requests and applications for issuance of special commitments must be valued at least 20% of the
special account advance outstanding at the time of submission. Therefore, when the Special Account is
$150,000, the minimum application value for direct payments and SCs will be $30,000 which will increase to
$60,000 once the entire authorized allocation is advanced to the special account.
17.   Flow of Funds. No subsidiary accounts or use of the special 90-day advance procedure will be
authorized. Government's share of expenditures will be financed at the time of payment to suppliers and only
the IDA-eligible portion will be withdrawn from the Special Account.
18.   Financial Management. All measures will be taken to make the project accounting system for the
proposed project fully compliant with OP/BP 10.02 by effectiveness. The accounting staff of PSMC is
adequately qualified and trained for keeping project accounting records, as documented by the latest audit



46                                        Annex 5
reports of PSMC, which indicate that the recommendations of external auditors have been implemented and
have resulted in an audit opinion free of significant qualifications. The accounting software currently installed
at PSMC is adequate for the purposes of project accounting and appears capable of keeping the books for
several project accounts simultaneously. PSMC will submit to IDA quarterly Project Monitoring Reports
starting in the second phase of the project, no later than 18 months from project effectiveness. PSMC will
prepare by end-1999 an action plan acceptable to IDA to ensure timely production of the Project Monitoring
Reports.
19.   Before effectiveness, the PSMC will propose three suitable project accountant and procurement
specialist candidates to IDA and appoint said project accountant and procurement specialist acceptable to
IDA. PSMC will submit monthly statements of account in the appropriate format, with a view to
consolidating project accounts.
20.   PSMC will prepare annual accounts for external audit, not later than four months after the end of the
borrower's fiscal year. Signed audit reports will be submitted annually to IDA no later than six months after
the end of the borrower's fiscal year. The audit reports will cover project accounts, the respective special
account, and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
21.    PSMC would take the following actions to upgrade its project management capability:  before
effectiveness, it would: (a) define tasks and the project administrative, accounting, financial and procurement
arrangements; (b) modify as needed the project procedures manual and accounting plan, including operational
guidelines defining the role of the executing agency and reporting requirements; (c) upgrade the computer
system and staff capacities as necessary; (d) finalize the project procedures manual as an annex to the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM); (e) submit an action plan acceptable to IDA for the preparation of Project
Monitoring Reports starting in the second phase of the project; and (f) appoint auditors, acceptable to IDA, to
audit the project accounts and the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) in accordance with internationally
acceptable auditing standards and in such detail as IDA may request; during project implementation,
undertake annual audits and submit them to IDA within six months from the end of the respective fiscal year.
22.   In compliance with the presidential order 433 organizing the PSMC, SNH will provide PSMC with
the necessary financial and administrative support.  To this extent, SNH would utilize the project
administrative and accounting plan developed to meet the Bank's financial systems requirements.
23.   PPF reimbursement. PPF 935-0, which had been established for the preparation of the pipeline
project, will be reimbursed out of this credit because of the IDA conditions that are applied to it.
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
Annual      1.59      2.16 1    0.84      0.49      0.45 r    0.23
Cumulative     1.59      3.75      4.60       5.09      5.54      5.77



47
Annex 6: Project Processing Schedule
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
Project Schedule                                       Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             March 1999            March 1999
Appraisal mission departure                     August 1999           July 1999
Negotiations                                    October 1999          February 2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   April 2000
Prepared by: Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee, Yaounde, Cameroon.
Preparation assistance: Marthe Malouf-Hardesty and Maria Mims
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Speciality
Jean-Roger Mercier                       Team Leader; Biophysical aspects
Mohammed Abdou Bekhechi                  Deputy Team Leader and Legal/regulatory Framework
Cynthia C. Cook                          Socio-economic aspects
Luc Lecuit                               Monitoring & Evaluation
Guy-Joseph Malembeti                     Procurement
Joseph Bonlong                           Financial Systems
Georges Visihio Minang                   Relationship with NGOs and civil society
Jack Titsworth                           Institutions
Pascal de Guidici, Consultant            Health
Justin Dovoedo, Consultant               IEC
Eric Chinje                              IEC
Jerome Chevallier                        Quality Control






49
Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Manual (Manuel de Mise en Oeuvre - in French), including the draft Terms
of Reference for the Government Oil Spill Response Preparation Study and the Manuel des Procedures of
SNH.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-memoire of the appraisal mission (August 1999)
C. Other
CAPECE - proposal for Monitoring and Evaluation (September 1999)
Rapport d'etude de Renforcement des capacites de gestion environnementale dans le secteur petrolier au
Cameroun. Buursink/RCM, Mai 1999
Decree 97-116 dated 07/07/97, to lay down the terms and conditions of implementing Law No. 96/14 of
5 August 1996 goveming the transportation by pipeline of hydrocarbons originating from other countries.
Order no. 433 of 24 August 1999, governing the organization and functioning of the Pipeline Steering and
Monitoring Committee.
*Including electronic files



51
Annex 8: Status of Bank Group Operations
31 -May-1 999
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
Closed 57
Projects
Difference Between
Board Date Fiscal Year                    Last PSR                                                 Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating b/   Original Amount in US$           Disbursements'
Millions
Active Projects                  Development Implementation  IBRD     IDA   Cancel. Undisb.    Orig. Frm Rev'd
Objectives   Progress
1992   P000400 FOOD SECURITY                U          U              0        0         0      0        0       0
1995   P000411 HLTH/FERT/NUTRITION          U          U              0    40.32         0  32.08   27.17    0.44
1996   P041553 PE/TA                        S          S              0    11.86         0    5.95    6.57       0
1996   P000393 TRANSPORT SECTOR             S          S              0    56.14         0  31.28   18.39        0
1998   P055684 IUT DOUALA (LIL)             S          S              0      5.01        0   4.81    2.41     0.03
1998   P054443 SAC III                      S          S              0   196.75         0 105.83    55.9   60.13
1999   P045348 AG.EXT.&RES.                 S          S              0    15.35         0  14.42    3.93        0
SUPPORT



52
CAMEROON
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-May-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval             Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1979                     Alucam                        0.00    0.00     0.93    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.93    0.00
1986                     CICAM                         2.02    0.00     0.00    0.00     2.02    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/94/97/98            Pecten Cameroon              60.00    0.00     0.00  190.00    25.24    0.00     0.00   79.94
1994/96                  AEF Proleg                    0.34    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.34    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994/96                  AEF United Trspt              0.47    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.47    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995                     AEF Comp Avicole              0.28    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.28    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         63.11     0.00     0.93   190.00   28.35    0.00     0.93   79.94
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00



53
Annex 9
Cameroon at a glance9219
ance                          ~~~~~~~~~9/22199
~Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharatt   Low,              _      --. - --   -
Cameroon      Africa  incomo       Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      14.3       628,   3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   610       480       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      8.7       304     1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-48
Population (%)                                        2.8       2.6       1.7
LJabor force (%)                                      3.2       2.6       I.9      GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
M"otrecentestimate(latest yearavaIlabloe,1932-98)                                capitr                       enrolnt
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              47         33       31
Life cxpectancy at birth (years)                      57         51       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              52         91       69
Child mralnutrition (% of children under 5)            .          ..       ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                41         47       74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  28     -  42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population  89         77                     _Cameroon
Male                                                83        :84      113                  Low-income group
Female                                              84        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987      1997       1598 9- t       __.        -     
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                           3.4    12.3        9.t       8.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP               28.5    24.7       16.2      184                      Tr
Exports of goods and servicestGDP           25.1    t15.7      268.      2.                       Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                  25.7    21.0       20.6      20.2
Gross national savinqs/GDP                   3.2    20.0       14,9      W5.S                       T
Current account balance/GDP                 -7.6    -5.0       -1.3      -2. 6
Interest payments/GDP                        0,9:    15        2.1       306-   Domestic                      Investment
Total debtWGDP                              31.4    33.2      101.9    ilc.S      Savings
Total debt serviceiexports                   7.9    30.4      : 20,4 .    27.2
Present value of debVGDP                           ..  ,.      87,0      94.7
Present value of debVexports                   .        ..    314.5    339.6
Indebtedness
T197-87 1988-98   21997        1998  1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP; ;iti                          77.5i    : -0.852    5.1    :5.0 10    5.3            ..... _ Cameroon
GNP per capita                      6.4    -3.8       1.7       3.7       2.4                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      13.4    -1.8    11.5         4.7       3.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 33.6    24.8       42.1      42.4     20
Industry                                    18.4    30.1       22.1      21.6     10
Manufacturing                              9.0    13.2       10.6      10.7      0
Services                                    48.0    45.1       35.8      35.9    -1096    7   98
Private consumption                         64.4    66.9       71.2      70.6    -20
General government consumption               9.8    12.2        8.2       9 2                    -       --*.-GDP
Imports of goods and services               27.8     19.4      22.4      25.0              -    GD_     _      GDP
1977-87 1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growrth)
Agriculture                                  5.0      3.9       7.5       6.8    30
Industry                                    15.4    -4.3        7.7       7.7    20
Manufacturing                             11.5    -1.6        8.2       8.2    10
Services                                     6.0    -1.7       -0.9      -0.8      0
Private consumption                          6.1      0.9      11.2       3.3   -10           >           96   97   98
General government consumption               9.5    -0.9      -15.4      16.1    .20
Gross domestic investment                    9.9    -3.3        9.5      17.9    .301
Imports of goods and services               10.8      0.5      19.5       8.3            -Exports   --*.-Imports
Gross national product                       9.5    -1.0        4.6       67
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wi
be incomplete.



54
Annex 9
Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%-
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                             14.8    13.2        5.2       2.8     20
Implicit GDP deflator                        5.9    -2.4        2.7       1.1     to
Government finance                                                                 o,0   _       
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                             94   95   96   97   98
Current revenue                              0.0    18.4       15.1      16.2    .10
Current budget balance                       0.0      4.7       0.8       1.3              _-GDP deflator   C.-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      0.0   -13.0       -0.7      -1.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                          809    1,729     1,968    1,875      2,500
Fuel                                         ..    843        743       592
Cocoa                                        ..    291        245       298     2,o0o
Manufactures                                 ..    230        291       423     uso*
Total imports (cif)                           .. 1,853  1,347  1,379 1,00h h h h _
Food                                         ..    133        155       173
Fuel and energy                              ..      16       136       149      soo
Capital goods                                ..    580        399       403            9
92  93 94  95  96 97          8
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      60       104      105
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..     46         97      101               mExports        mimports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                         ..    131        108      104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               851    2,054      2,443    2,343      o
Imports of goods and services                944    2,538     2,041     2,185       iE_'
Resource balance                             -93    -484        402      158
Net income                                  -197    -159       -609     -471
Net current transfers                         34      31         86       95    -3
Current account balance                     -257    -611       -120     -218    4i     l
Financing items (net)                        255    1,168       263      180      s 
Changes in net reserves                        2    -557       -142       39    -6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        45       ..        11       11
Conversion rate (DEC, localLUS$)           247.8   318.7      541.1    602.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS milli
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,057    4,081     9,293    9,597
IBRD                                        72     545       410       350                        350
IDA                                         88     239       609       701                 1427         701
-156
Total debt service                            68      652       513      659                                -
IBRD                                         6      70        113       97           e8                      405
IDA                                          1       3          9       10            1 /
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             37      50        137
Official creditors                        209      158         18       -62
Private creditors                         145       17        -28       -40
Foreign direct investment                    9       12        45       50
Portfolio equity                             0       0          0        0                           5877
World Bank program                                                                A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Commitments                                  0        0         0      218      B -IDA  0D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Disbursements                               36      82        126       82      C - IMF                      G - Short-tia
Principal repayments                         1      30         81       74
Net flows                                   35      52         45        8
Interest payments                            5      43         41       33
Net transfers                               29        9         4       -25
Development Economics                                                                                              9/22/99



55                                 Annex 10
Annex 10: Summary
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE)
Project Documentation
Summary of the Environmental Assessment (EA) of the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Export
Project - responsibilities of the Government of Cameroon
1.   By accepting the Environmental Documentation of the Petroleum  Development and
Pipeline Project (PDPP), the Government of Cameroon (GoC) has agreed to participate actively
in the implementation of safeguard measures. They will ensure that the potential environmental
and social impacts of PDPP are prevented, mitigated or compensated for and that the monitoring
will confirm the efficacy of these measures ex post. These measures are grouped in an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), which represents the operational section of the
Environmental Assessment as prescribed in OD 4.01 and OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment, February 1999). The EMP allocates the largest share of the implementation
responsibility to the oil companies consortium. The GoC's EMP implementation responsibilities,
although key to the succpss of the operation, are much more limited in scope and in size than the
Consortium's. The detailed description of GoC's responsibilities in the EMP follows.
2.   The safeguard measures have been developed during a long preparation process, which
involved extensive consultation with the GoC and the affected population. The objective of the
Cameroon EMP is to describe measures and actions that will be implemented by the GoC and
COTCO during the construction and operation/maintenance of the Project to eliminate or reduce
key potential biophysical, socioeconomic and health impacts identified in the EA to acceptable
levels. Successful execution of the EMP requires that the specific actions proposed are
undertaken by the responsible Project parties.
3.   The Environmental Documentation describes the safeguard measures in a series of
coordinated activities:
X  Induced Access Management Plan
*  Management Plan for Cultural Properties
*  Environment Alignment Sheets, Environmental Line List, and associated Handbook
*  COTCO's Environmental Monitoring Plan
*  Biophysical/socioeconomic/health technical requirements and specifications
*  Compensation Plan
*  Environmental Foundation Plan
*  Offsite Environmental Enhancement Plan
*  Indigenous Peoples Plan
*  Oil Spill Response and General Oil Spill Response Plan
*  Decommissioning
*  Community Health Outreach Program
*  Consultation



56                                Annex 10
Induced Access Management Plan (IAMP)
4.   The Plan was developed to address potential induced access issues/concerns alcng the
Cameroon Transportation System's pipeline route regarding:
*  Impacts on wildlife in the Mbere Valley, the area between the Pangar and Lom rivers
and the area between Belabo and Nanga Eboko, and
* Attendant impacts on vegetation/habitats in the same identified sensitive areas.
A number of access controls that have been previously used in linear-type projects have been
incorporated in the IAMP in order to reduce/preclude vehicular access and impede the movement
of pedestrians into the above listed areas. The implementation of the IAMP is a joint
responsibility of COTCO (information and installation of physical barriers) and of GoC (control
of induced access impacts, enforcing hunting and wildlife-poaching regulations, and timber
harvesting regulations).
Management Plan for Cultural Properties
5.   The Plan includes:
* Procedures for identifying cultural properties in the immediate vicinity of the
Cameroon Transportation System (CTS)'s easement,
-  Techniques to be implemented during the construction phase of the Project to limit
direct impacts to important archaeological, historical and paleontological sites,
- Proposed treatment methods for different types of archaeological, historical, and
paleontological sites located within the CTS's easement or likely to be discovered
during the construction phase, and
X Standards to be implemented regarding the documentation and reporting of cultural
resources discovered and treated by the project
COTCO is responsible for managing this Plan, with the GoC providing oversight and monitoring
the quality of the work and the use of the property discovered.
Environment Alignment Sheets, Environmental Line List, and associated Handbook
6.   The environmental baseline data collected will be managed in an Information System (IS)
which includes:
* Vegetation/land use classifications
* Villages of indigenous peoples
* Vegetation and wildlife resources
* Vegetation and wildlife protection measures
* Monitoring, surveys and seasonal restrictions
* Fisheries protection measures
* Induced access management control measures
* Erosion and sediment control measures
* Soil handling and special area reclamation measures
COTCO is responsible for the development of the Alignment Sheets, the Line List and the
associated Handbook. The GoC's monitoring system will cross-reference these data.



57                                Annex 10
COTCO's Environmental Monitoring Plan
7.   The Plan includes:
*  Structure of COTCO's environmental monitoring organization,
*  Roles and responsibilities of positions in COTCO's environmental monitoring
organization,
*  Activities for COTCO's field monitors regarding biophysical, socioeconomic and
health matters,
*  Processes for documenting the observations of COTCO's field environmental
monitors,
*  Processes for tracking the rectification of a non-compliance situation,
*  Processes for informing appropriate parties in the event that a potential non-
compliance situation is identified, and
*  Process for stopping work in the event of a serious non-compliance situation.
This Plan is fully the responsibility of COTCO.
Biophysical/socioeconomic/health technical requirements and specifications
8.   The technical requirements and specifications will apply to all the contractors of the
Pipeline project and is a condition of their selection, and the lack of compliance to these
requirements and specifications would constitute a breach of their contractual arrangements with
COTCO. In more detail, these requirements and specifications are represented by a number of
requirements and specifications:
-  Job Specification Coordination Procedures (31, including 7 environmental/social)
  General Project Specifications (21, including 14 environmental/social)
- Cameroon/Chad Specifications (200, including 8 environmental/social)
These requirements and specifications are the responsibility, in Cameroon, of COTCO.
Representatives from GoC will review the contents of the requirements and specifications and
will be trained to identify failure to comply with these requirements and specifications.
Compensation Plan
9.   Compensation is due to the many farmers and dwellers who had crops and other property
on the land easement for the CTS, as well as for communal resources. The amount of
compensation has been assessed by using the national legal requirements and combining them
with the World Bank's requirements.
10.  The Compensation Plan includes:
*  A summary of the individuals, households and communities affected by the Project.
*  Definitions of the types of resources for which individuals and households will be
entitled to receive compensation and of those for which community compensation
will be paid.
*  An outline of the process used to identify eligible individuals and households,
conduct public consultation, and assess and pay appropriate compensation, as well as
to determine community priorities for community property compensation.
*  Grievance procedures.
*  Overview of the monitoring process.
*  Plan's budget and timeline.



58                               Annex 10
Although, by appropriate design, no involuntary resettlement is expected from the project, the
Compensation Plan defines circumstances that may trigger involuntary resettlement and the
procedure that would be followed, should such resettlement need arise.
11.   The Compensation Plan has been estimated to cost about US$ 6-7 million, and will be
implemented jointly by COTCO and GoC. The Government has specific responsibilities under
Cameroon law to verify the valuation of lost assets and to ensure the payment of (partial)
compensation. COTCO will finance most of the costs under the plan, with GoC responsible only
for that portion of compensation required under Cameroon law.
Environmental Foundation Plan
12.  To support the implementation of the Offsite Environmental Enhancement Plan (OEEP)
and the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP), COTCO will make a US$ 3.5 million capital contribution
to an Environmental Foundation in order to:
* Provide defined long-term support for environmental enhancement activities in the Mbam-
Djerem and the Campo Ma'an National Parks; and
* Provide defined long-term financial support for Bakola Pygmy-related development
activities in the region of the Atlantic Littoral forest surrounding the pipeline easement
between Lolodorf and Kribi.
13.  The Environmental Foundation will be managed by a Management Board comprising one
representative of GoC, one from COTCO, one well-known and respected Cameroonian citizen
and two internationally recognized scientists. It will elect the Board's president among the Board
members.
14.  Other key Foundation members include the Fund Investment Manager, the Foundation
Administrator, the Community Development Facilitator, and Implementation Organizations
which will be selected through a bidding process.
15.  GoC's role in the Foundation includes the selection of a representative at the Board and an
oversight of the operation of the Foundation through its regular reporting.
Offsite Environmental Enhancement Plan (OEEP)
16.  In order to mitigate for low-level residual impacts to biodiversity and natural habitat value
resulting from the construction and operation of the CTS, COTCO will undertake an OEEP.
Central to this program is COTCO's partial funding (through the Foundation) of conservation
projects in Mbam-Djerem and Campo.
17.  The OEEP includes scientific studies and research, conservation actitivities and
conservation education programs. It is expected that US$ 2.9 of the Foundation's capital fund
will be dedicated to the OEEP.
18.  The GoC has important obligations to support the implementation of the OEEP:
* Legally establish and effectively protect the designated areas,
* Provide staff, housing, and office space at both sites, and
* Pay recurrent costs (staff salaries, allowances, supplies, equipment not eligible for
COTCO support, and utilities).



59                                 Annex 10
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP)
19.  In order to mitigate any potential long-term indirect adverse effect on the vulnerable
Bakola Pygmy population in the Atlantic Littoral forest traversed by the pipeline (- 120 km), an
IPP has been developed. The measures in this plan are in addition to those listed in the
Compensation Plan.
20.  The objective of the IPP is to provide long-term benefits to the Project-affected Pygmy
population via assistance to programs/projects that address Pygmy health, education, and
agriculture activities. Due to the historical association of local Bantu groups with the Bakola
Pygmies, the IPP also addresses some health issues of the Bantu groups.
21.  The IPP offers a framework within which Bakola Pygmy groups would leverage their own
resources through grants made by the Environmental Foundation (total contribution provisionally
estimated at US$ 600,000 out of the Foundation's US$ 3.5 million). At this stage, only a generic
description of potential IPP programs has been made, including basic literacy and education
initiatives, hygiene assistance, improved water supply, and agriculture. The actual activities to be
supported by the Foundation will be selected and designed with the full participation of the
intended beneficiaries.
22.  The role of the GoC will be to oversee the performance of the IPP. Projects implemented
under the IPP may need to be coordinated with the local programs of the respective decentralized
services.
Oil Spill Response
23.  The prime focus of the PDPP's oil spill countermeasures is incident prevention, which will
be achieved via well-designed facilities and equipment, sound maintenance and operating
procedures, effective training of personnel and contractors, and a high degree of awareness and
concern by all parties. Despite these preventive measures, the possibility of an oil spill (terrestrial
or marine) still exists.
24.  An Oil Spill Response Plan (OSRP) is being developed. It will include a three-tier
strategy: the Oil Spill Response Preliminary Approach, which was presented in the PDPP EMP
documents, a General Oil Spill Response Plan, completed in September 1999, and Area-Specific
Oil Spill Response Plans, which will be developed at least 6 months before the first oil is
produced.
25.   The marine portion of the OSRP will adhere to international conventions and agreements
such as the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) and the International
Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78).
26.  The preparation and the implementation of the three-tier strategy of the OSRP is the
responsibility of COTCO. In parallel, the GoC will develop its own oil spill response plan, which
goes beyond the PDPP to address oil spill response capability in general, within the framework of
the CAPECE project.
Decommissioning
27.  In the latter stage of the PDPP's operations phase, a complete and comprehensive
decommissioning plan for the Cameroon portion of the PDPP facilities will be prepared. It will
be in accordance with applicable Republic of Cameroon legislation and recognized international



60                                Annex 10
practices for upstream petroleum industry sites and facilities at the time when decommissioning
takes place. The plan will be prepared in a participatory way.
28.  Decommissioning of the Cameroon portion of the PDPP and making financial provisions
for that decommissioning is the obligation and the responsibility of COTCO. Decommissioning
itself will be performed by contractors overseen by COTCO.
29.  It will be GoC's responsibility to oversee the decommissioning, monitor its actual
implementation and approve the works once finished. This will take place a long time in the
future, so it is outside the scope of the present project, but will call upon the capacity to be
created, which therefore needs to be sustained in the petroleum sector.
Community Health Outreach Program
30.  A cost-effective community health outreach program, primarily directed at addressing
some of the public-health related impacts that are external to PDPP itself, will be developed and
implemented by COTCO. It is intended to target selected issues and to be limited to locations
near permanently staffed Project field facilities. It will include:
* Behavioral information, education and communication (IEC);
*  Culturally acceptable and sustainable interventions; and
* Direct funding to Private Volunteer Organizations (PVO/NGOs) which are focused
on educational and other targeted health interventions.
31.  The GoC bears responsibility for the management of public health in the areas traversed by
the pipeline. It will strengthen, in parallel, its presence and interventions in the field, both
permanently and within the Field Units, through the CAPECE project.
Consultation
32. COTCO will consult regularly and frequently with civil society and project affected
populations. The GoC will also inform the public and key stakeholders of the environmental
and social consequences of pipeline construction and solicit their feedback in order to
improve project performance. The IEC component of the project will develop capacity in
PSMC to meet this responsibility on behalf of the GoC.






[BRD 30660
10                                  Gorooo                                 150    ~~~~~~~~~~~~C KH A
CAMEROON                                                                                                                                                                                                      I  ooooiopotottr        o ' 
r                                                  ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A;o    -,D6
PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT                                                             NIGERIA                                                                 f-                 pnj 0TkIli   'o
CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f
PROJECT                                                                                                                       /                                                             T roo6ooror
NATIONAL PARKS                                                                                                                 /          Tign6-oer0                                          p onors      .      '  ''
OF FSET.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 9ood%:o2~    T. oooo
* bouodaries of OFFSET oorr- pond to f-                                                                                      t  
boEo-dri-e ol Nohonol P.k. k'
koordoriet of OFFSET ore ihin
hooodoroesof NOtntl P.rk, 6ut ..l _o                                             .                                                                                     bongoO    1'              /              I
yet fully detoroiorod.                                                                                kont''          '             M""or/            I                        X
INDICATIVE INDIGENOUS PEOPLE PLAN AREA                                       J"           OWuno                                                /  NdI0               Mid                       /
- * - - - PIPELINE ROUTE                                                                                            0 KuoC                                                                                                         N
K..b.                                                                       ~~~~~~CENTRAL
1)      PUMPING STATIONS                                                                  Nbeogw        -'                  " "                                                            Bol                               F s         A
MAIN RIVERS                                                                                            "                                                                d' I   9  Bo lro                         A F RICA N
o       SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                                           O      .; Niyj                          R  E P U  B  L I C
-PAV ED  ROADS                                                                                tIo                          oot'                           Qo 
RAILROADS                                                             -oB
0       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                      r-   _Lo,. y"'00,r,boIio                                                     /
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                             ,0   "                              "Yl-_                                                                                        13it-t E  -ert  Rotooti
hbonalEl5o ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     Aon MIoo 16c m                      15o
!<  h      ~~~~,.   a Mblooooyo                                                             \,                                       N ,>
.. .... - =- , .- . - - ^ ~~~~/                                                                                                           Nv  1S<,    
u ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ Lni                                                            LIBYA
T                                                                                                                           MALIgm1ima  Ooir    NIGERA
-- ----- X  z     , ;       b'Cirrpo  C-                                                                                 )       f\.           _ .    NChod                  SUDIAN
or'ocI  Fok'                                                                        t,A  "y..
0      40     60      20    160 KILOMETERS                                                                               ; W  '-t .Natf*,*.*          P     c     r     k          X                       NIGERIIA
0    20   40    5       8 b   O0MtULS                          G    F-       F                                            j                                                                                t ,I;o oMILE S                     -,
CONGO                wproducrS,ylb.M .    pD.,,Ln u ni, jNt0 f r^wozd CENTRAL  ";
TbSboooooriee. coIors denoomootioro ond ooyother rbreatinhoohoowr  W   i  -e .....  ,sf ; .......a  - ,    .-   ..EQUATORIAL                                                                                          O 'O  N     A
Gbi -tp to,prdoced by tb. Mop Lteoi9 UoitofTh. W-rloool                                                GUI EA .n, e
on t    &t -  ippdoo y, -o tbhe port of Ihe Wold fo-k G o.p . oy                    . -y;_Ua1                                                                                                                             '    .-
jod2tenoot 00he legoletoro, of ooy territoryor oycoolnorsenoeot  -. -~o (:=:-.                                                                                                                 siav)=_
orcoptonce of sorb b,ooo4orirs o            t-.-                                                                                                                                           00       BAGOE         rGA        (CONGO         DE     EP.0A B    O  N  OF
1      100 ,                                                                                                                                      CONGO
FEBRUARY 2000



