Report No. PID7779
Project Name                     Cameroon Petroleum Environment Capacity(@) ...
Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       CMPE48204
Borrower(s)                      The Government of Cameroon
Implementing Agency              Pipelines Steering and
Monitoring Committee
BP 522
Yaounde, Cameroon,
The Permanent Secretary
Telephone: (237) 209860
Fax        (237) 204651
Date the initial PID
was  prepared                    April 22, 1999
Date Expanded PID Prepared       October 27, 1999
Date Appraisal started           July 26, 1999
Projected Board Date             December 15, 1999
Country and sector background
1. Because of its offshore oil resources and favorable agricultural
conditions, Cameroon has one of the best-endowed and most diversified primary
commodity economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Still, it faces many of the
serious problems experienced by other underdeveloped countries, such as
political instability, a top-heavy civil service, and a generally unfavorable
climate for business enterprise. The development of the oil sector created
rapid economic growth between 1970 and 1985. Growth came to an abrupt halt in
1986, precipitated by steep declines in the prices of major exports: coffee,
cocoa, and petroleum. Export earnings were cut by almost one-third and
inefficiencies in fiscal management were exposed. In 1990-93, with support
from the IMF and World Bank, the government began to introduce reforms
designed to spur business investment, increase efficiency in agriculture, and
recapitalize the nation's banks. Political instability, following non-
transparent elections in 1992, brought IMF/WB structural adjustment to a
halt. Although the 50t devaluation of the currency in January 1994 improved
the potential for export growth, mismanagement remains and is the main
barrier to economic improvement.
2. The Government of Cameroon has been working with the support of the World
Bank and IMF to improve and consolidate macroeconomic stability and
management of public finances. Since mid-1996, there is evidence of
determination on the part of the Government of Cameroon to tackle the
economy's fundamental problems. In this context, the World Bank has provided
three Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC) which have supported the
Government's efforts in macro economic sector reforms and the liberalization
of the economy. The first and second SACs were successfully completed and a



follow-up SAC III is currently being implemented. The IMF approved an ESAF
program in August 1997 which was successfully implemented, and a second
annual program was approved by the IMF in September 1998.
3. Over the last three years, Cameroon's economic performance has
significantly improved. Cameroon has attained primary surpluses of 5.5-6
percent of GDP per year, all external arrears have been eliminated except to
bilateral non-Paris Club creditors, and the growth rate of GDP has risen to
over 5 percent in real terms. Major structural reforms have been
implemented, or are under way, including a far-reaching privatization program
covering all utilities that is scheduled for completion in the next 18
months.
4. Since 1985 oil production has declined although Cameroon is currently the
fifth largest producer of petroleum in sub-Saharan Africa (following
Nigeria, Angola, Gabon and Congo-Brazzaville). Petroleum development
activities were revived in 1996 following government approval of new
financial incentives for oil production from marginal fields with less than
20 million recoverable barrels over a 3-5 year economic life. In 1998,
legislation was passed to encourage foreign investment in petroleum and gas
exploration and production. This legislation included tax incentives which
were linked to the risks taken in prospecting for new fields. These
incentives allowed exploitation in recently opened oil and gas fields to
compensate for the 10-15 percent decline in traditional sources.
Consequently, existing petroleum production levels have been sustained at
about 110,000 barrels/day and even risen with new exploration. Oil and gas
account for 26t of exports. Petroleum product management is not free of
environmental and social risks and the Government's ability to respond to and
mitigate these risks is very weak.
5. The Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project (CCPP) is sponsored by a Consortium
composed of Exxon (40%), Shell (40%) and Elf (20%) who will jointly develop
the Doba oil fields in the south of Chad over a 30 year period and build a
pipeline that traverses Chad and Cameroon from Doba to the west coast of
Cameroon at Kribi. An offshore loading station will also be built near
Kribi. IFC is participating in the funding of the consortium's investments
for about US$ 150 m of the US$ 3,500 m total investment, including the
implementation of the Environmental Management Plans (EMP).
6. The development of the oil fields will be wholly-owned by the consortium
but the export system will be owned and operated by two joint-venture
pipeline companies, one for the portion located in Cameroon (COTCO) and the
other for the portion located in Chad (TOTCO). These companies will be
majority-owned by the oil companies (80 percent) but the Government of Chad
will hold minority interests in both pipeline companies responsible for
exporting its oil, while the Government of Cameroon will hold a minority
interest in the Cameroon pipeline company. The World Bank (IBRD) has been
approached by the Governments to help finance their respective shares in the
companies for a total of US$ 90 m as well as help finance parallel capacity
building projects to assist Chad and Cameroon in managing the environmental,
social and revenue aspects of the pipeline project. This CAPECE project is a
capacity building project which has been developed at the request of the
Government of Cameroon to ensure the smooth implementation of its
responsibilities in the Cameroon EMP and in environmental management in
general.
-2-



7. The construction of the pipeline through Cameroon is scheduled to start
during 2002 and last for about two years. The development of the oil fields
in Doba (Chad) will take nearly four years. The Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) and the Compensation Plan (CP) for the pipeline and its associated
infrastructure have been finalized. They have been made available to the
public in June 1999. In compliance with Bank policies, they contain an
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) as well as the management of environmental
offsets for Cameroon (Campo Ma'an and Mbam Djerem). The environmental and
social safeguards apply to five major sectors:
petroleum: prevention of oil spills
rural development: implementation of the IPP and of the environmental
offsets
health services: for the prevention of transmission of disease
infrastructure: prevention of negative environmental and social impacts of
road construction and maintenance
social development: implementation and monitoring of the Compensation Plan.
No project-related resettlement is expected in Cameroon.
8. The CCPP Consortium is responsible for the implementation of most of
these safeguard measures. The role of the Government of Cameroon will be to
(i) control the proper execution of these safeguard measures, (ii) monitor
the status of the environment around the pipeline and its associated
infrastructure and (iii) oversee the management of the environmental offsets
and implementation of the IPP. The capacity to undertake these, as well as
the experience in doing so at this scale, are presently lacking and need to
be developed.
9.  The Government (GoC) has shown its commitment to protecting Cameroon's
environment by preparing a National Environmental Management Plan (NEMP) in
1996. Major laws have been passed, including the Forest Law of 1994 and, in
direct application of the NEMP, the Environmental Framework Law of 1996.
Implementation decrees for the latter have been drafted (including for
Environmental impact Assessment (EA) and pollution management) and are
expected to be soon published with the assistance of UNDP on a separate
project (NEMP-II).
10. The NEMP includes a list of activities to be implemented which are of
high priority. The full integration of the implications of the NEMP in the
various sectoral policies also needs to be carried out. The GoC lacks the
capacity to enforce existing legislation as well as to implement its NEMP.
Coordination among the various governmental bodies and agencies involved in
environmental protection is weak. The Permanent Secretariat for the
Environment (SPE) has only recently been established in the Ministry of
Environment and Forestry (MINEF). The strategy identified in the NEMP calls
for a relatively light coordination function carried out by the SPE, with
sector ministries assuming the main responsibilities for regulating and
monitoring environmental concerns in their respective areas.
11. The government has established the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring
Committee (Comite de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines - PSMC), to oversee
and monitor all social and environmental aspects of the pipeline project.
This role is consistent with the recommendations of the Environmental
Assessment of the CCPP and with Cameroon's NEMP. The PSMC is responsible for
ensuring that Cameroon complies with its obligations under the Environmental
Management and Compensation Plans for the CCPP. It is composed of an inter-
-3 -



ministerial coordination Committee and of a Permanent Secretariat. An
"arrete" which describes in detail the role, functions and composition of the
Interministerial Committee, as well as of the Permanent Secretariat, has been
published on August 24, 1999.
Project objectives
12. The project aims to develop and establish a national capacity in Cameroon
for the environmental management and monitoring of the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline
Project (CCPP). This capacity will also help Cameroon address environmental
issues in the petroleum sector, a critical requirement to attract and
maintain a high level of foreign investment in the country.
Project description
13. The Cameroon Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) project
will ensure that the Government of Cameroon makes the Chad Cameroon Pipeline
Project comply with the environmental and social safeguard policies of the
World Bank Group, a precondition for the involvement of the international
community in the funding of CCPP. Because of its capacity building
objective, CAPECE will help implement the three key objectives of the
Cameroon Country Assistance Strategy (CAS):
improve resource mobilization,
improve productivity of the poor, notably through the implementation of the
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) and the Compensation Plan,
improve the climate for private sector development e in this regard, the
project will target private sector development in the petroleum sector
(environmental assessment, environmental audits).
The project aims to enhance Government capacity to protect the environment
and mitigate the potential negative social and environmental impacts of the
CCPP. It will, in particular, support the implementation of project plans
for compensation, prevention and management of health impacts, indigenous
peoples and biodiversity conservation.
14. The major activities to be implemented by the Government can be
categorized as follows.
Construction Period (year 2-4)           Operation period (year 5-25)
Prevention of terrestrial oil            Prevention and management of marine &
spill risks &  wastewater management     terrestrial oil spill risks
Mitigation of environmental health
risks during construction
Oversight of the management of the       Oversight of the management of the
environmental offsets                    environmental offsets
Oversight of the implementation          Oversight of the implementation of
of the Indigenous Peoples                the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP)
Plan (IPP)
Prevention and management of
poaching risks during construction
-4-



The activities funded under the CAPECE project will be.
Development of an enabling framework
Drafting of, publication of, training on and dissemination of 12 decrees
regulations to implement the framework law on environmental management of
1996
Long term vision study
Coordination Capacity Enhancement (PSMC)
Central level (Permanent Secretariat)
Field Unit levels (bio-physical, socio-economic)
Information, Education & Communication (IEC)
Intervention Capacity Enhancement
Health Management activities (Ministry of Health, NGOs)
Government Oil Spill Response Plan and implementation
Local administrative capacity enhancement (Transports, Forestry, Mining,
Research)
Monitoring & Evaluation
Provision of the Services of an International Advisory Panel
Monitoring of the implementation of the EMP and Management Information System
16. The PSMC and the Chadian Committee in charge of environmental management
of the petroleum sector (National Technical Committee for the Monitoring and
Control of the environmental impacts of pipeline projects) will regularly
cooperate under the IEC component of this project and the environmental
component of the parallel Chad Petroleum Capacity Building project, the
appraisal of which started in June 1999.
Project financing
17. Total project cost is estimated at US$ 13.29 m, and the IDA funding
requirements have been estimated at US$ 5.77 m, with GoC financing US$ 7.52
m, including taxes and duties.
Project implementation
18. The Pipelines Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC) was established
by the decree 97/116 of July 7, 1997, "to lay down the terms and conditions
of implementing Law 96/14 of August 5,1996, governing the transportation by
pipeline of hydrocarbons originating from other countries". An arrete
"organizing and setting the operating rules of PSMC" assigns a series of
responsibilities to the committee, among which the following concern
management of the environmental and social impacts of pipeline projects:
monitoring and implementation of environmental management plans,
review of queries and comments from the public on the environmental aspects
of projects,the production of reports on the environmental component of the
pipeline project.
Project sustainability
19. The need for environmental management in the petroleum sector will
extend over a longer period than the CAPECE project's five years of
operation. The Government of Cameroon, during these five years, will
undertake a long term vision study to determine (i) the optimal
institutional, regulatory and policy frameworks for improving environmental
management in the petroleum sector, (ii) the resource requirements for
putting in place and maintaining these frameworks and (iii) the resources
- 5 -



available to implement them.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
20. Implementation of forestry-related conditionality under SAC III has
required extensive dialogue between Government, the Bank, IMF, other donors,
and the private sector. The release of the second tranche of the SAC,
related to the forestry conditionality, has needed extensive dialogue due to
delays by the GoC in fulfilling certain conditions of tranche release. The
lesson learned from this experience has been the need for transparent, open,
intensive and extensive dialogue, involving all elements of civil society as
well as Government, in order for policy reform in this sector to be accepted
and sustained. Continued broad public debate and international attention
will be needed to ensure that the Government lives up to its commitments on
environmental management in the context of the pipeline project.
21. The Transport Sector project first brought to the Government's attention
the importance of addressing environmental impacts at a sectoral level.
Consistent with the approach proposed in the NEMP, this project is
successfully building environmental management capacity in the Ministry of
Public Works and has developed an agenda for environmental management
capacity building in the Ministry of Transport. The lesson is that capacity
can and should be developed in sectoral agencies, and can be effective even
in the absence of strong leadership from the Ministry of Environment.
22. The privatization of Hevecam, Socapalm, and Camrail under the
Privatization Program has shown that weak environmental assessment and
management capacity results in poor concession policy design and can hamper
the privatization process. Building environmental management capacity for
the country is therefore key to attracting future private investment and
putting Cameroon on a sustainable growth path.
23. Although the Forestry Law provides that all development projects which
may harm the forest cover of the country should be subjected to a prior
environmental assessment, such assessment has not been done as part of the
preparatory work for the allocation of new forestry concessions, and there is
no capacity to do so in the Forestry Department. The GEF Biodiversity
Conservation Project, implemented by the Department of Wildlife in the
Ministry of Environment and Forests, has also encountered major
implementation problems, which are only now being addressed after a prolonged
Mid-Term Review. Improved coordination and capacity building within this
Ministry is essential to bring Cameroon's performance on environmental
management up to international standards. The present project will not
address this issue directly, but will help to lay the foundations for a
potential future Forestry/Environment operation that would support this
objective.
24. The Cameroon Health Sector Project, in contrast, has demonstrated the
limited absorptive capacity of public institutions in the health sector and
the difficulty of reaching the poor with health services, particularly those
in remote rural areas. New approaches need to be tried, including the
delegation of basic health awareness activities and distribution of key
supplies to civil society partners outside of government. The project awaits
government proposals in this respect and the team will discuss them during
appraisal.
-6-



Critical Risks
Risk                               Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of commitment by              S                Contractual obligations under
Government to fully implement                       the EMP in the IBRD loan to
safeguard policies.                                 Cameroon International
Advisory Panel Public
opinion/IEC component.
Lack of coordination among         M                Centralization of authority
different governmental agencies.                    under PSMC Training and
incentives for decentralized
agency staff.
Lack of participation by project   S                IEC component
affected people.                                    IPP participatory approach
International Advisory Panel
Personnel do not remain in the     M               Supportive working conditions
public service after training                       are offered to the trained
has been received and/or are not                   personnel.
motivated to act against all
forms of environmental and
social degradation.
Equipment and procedures           M               A Project Implemention Manual
are not in place in time and/or                     (PIM) including a Procurement
they are not operational when                       Plan will be adopted by GoC
and where they are needed.                         prior to project effectiveness.
Procurement and management of
equipment are centralized at
PSMC and equipment use will be
programmed on a monthly basis.
Procedures will be regularly
audited.
The International Advisory          M               The terms of reference for the
Panel (IAP)'s advice is not                         Panel emphasize its pedagogic
discussed within PSMC, not                          relationship with PSMC.  The
acted on, and not                                  GoC will make the Panel's
disseminated broadly.                               reports publicly available. Bank
supervision will look closely at
this issue.
Overall Risk Rating                 M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk),
N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Supervision will be intensive and conducted in conjunction with pipeline
supervision.
Poverty category
-7-



25. This project will participate in alleviating poverty by facilitating the
Pipeline project and thus allowing the Government of Cameroon to share the
benefits of the pipeline with the poor directly (Indigenous Peoples Plan) or
indirectly (protection of natural resources, the access to which is essential
for long term poverty alleviation).
Environmental aspects
26. This is a Category C project, as it is a capacity building project with
very little physical investment. All equipment funded under the project will
be state-of-the-art and will follow the latest environmental specifications.
Environmental benefits are expected from this project which will help build
national capacity in management of environmental impacts of petroleum
projects.
Program Objective Categories
27. CAPECE will contribute to improved environmental management of the
petroleum sector in Cameroon through a combination of capacity building and
institutional development.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:         (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Jean Roger Mercier
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-5565
Fax:        (202) 473-8185
Annex 1: Project Description
CAMEROON: Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
The context
1.      The Project aims at developing the capacity of Cameroon to deal with
environmental management issues associated with the construction and
operation of a system transporting oil by pipeline through Cameroon from the
Chadian frontier to the marine area near Kribi on the Cameroon Atlantic
coast. More specifically, the Project aims at strengthening existing and
building additional capacity for the implementation and monitoring of the
mitigation measures defined by the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for
the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Export Project. Cameroon needs to strengthen the
capacity of all its institutions dealing with the various impacts of the
Petroleum Export Project and to coordinate their efforts in this endeavor.
- 8 -



2.      Environmental Management includes the full range of activities required
to safeguard the affected population and the affected natural environment
against negative impacts. In that context, environmental management includes
nature conservation, but has a broader scope, including protecting human
health and minimizing local social conflicts.
3.      The GoC has made the strategic choice to have the EMP implemented
centrally by one coordinating body. This choice aims at ensuring maximum
consistency in the activities of the various administrations having precise
mandates in this project, facilitating the contacts between the Government
and COTCO, the pipeline operator in Cameroon, through the selection of a
single interlocutor, and reaching maximum efficiency in situations where
interventions are required quickly and need to be implemented without any
bureaucratic delay.
The institutional setup
4.      The main body responsible   for the environmental management of the
pipeline project is the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC),
chaired by the Head of SNH, the national oil company. In order to fulfill
its mandates and responsibilities, the PSMC is organized in two branches: the
"Comite de Suivi" (CS) which is the administering board and policy-maker,
and the Permanent Secretariat (PSMC) which is the operational arm. The
relationship between CS and PSMC is detailed in the presidential order and
shall be included in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PSMC is
equipped with six different sections in charge of the various aspects of the
PSMC's mandates, and three field units. These sections are the following:
An Environment, Routing and Security (ERS) Section which will carry out the
following:
Provide an interface with the International Advisory Panel,
Coordinate all environmental interventions related to environmental
management for the pipeline,
Manage the three field units,
Provide an interface with the other units of the PSMC, in particular the
Legal Unit (LS),
Manage all the common functions (including oversight of the implementation of
the Compensation Plan, the Indigenous Peoples Plan e IPP e and of the Offsite
Environmental Enhancement Program e OEEP e as described in the EMP)
Monitor the outcomes and the performance of the program.
A Legal Unit which oversees the preparation of the required regulations and
procedures, and reviews all legal aspects of the PSMC work program and
activities,
An Administration and Accounting Unit,
An Communication and Education Unit which will be in charge of the project's
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) component,
An Economics and Finance Unit,
An Engineering Unit.
Field Units: Also, the PSMC will manage two terrestrial and one marine field
unit during pipeline construction, to fulfill its mandate to monitor the
impacts of construction activities on the ground.
-9-



5.      The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the Compensation Plan (CP)
of the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Export Project, which have been approved by
Cameroon, identify the monitoring and control actions that are the
responsibility of the Government. These actions relate to the biophysical
(soils, air, water) environment, the socio-economic activities and health
management. Also and as part of its oversight responsibility for the
Environmental Foundation (see annex 10), the Government will monitor all
environmental enhancement activities in the Campo and Mbam-Djerem National
Parks and the implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Plan.
6.      According to the EMP recommendations, the operator (COTCO) will
establish three field-based monitoring units, among which one will be
oriented towards monitoring marine activities, for pipeline and the off-shore
facility construction. The PSMC will also equip itself with field units
comprised of three (3) specialists, one in each of the three intervention
areas identified: biophysical impacts, socio-economic impacts, and health
management (the latter, only one person rotating from one field unit to the
other). Field units will be in charge of the daily monitoring of pipeline
construction impacts, and thus will develop two-way communication with the
local administration and COTCO and, in particular, with COTCO's monitoring
units.
7.      The PSMC oversees the implementation of the components of the capacity
building program: procurement and management of equipment and supplies,
logistical support, training program, technical assistance. The coordination
unit (ERS) provides the Government with the ways and means to implement its
responsibilities for the mitigation of the environmental and social impacts
of the pipeline.
Project components
8.      The components and sub-components of CAPECE are as follows.
I. Strengthening the institutional, regulatory and legal framework
I.1. Drafting, dissemination and enforcement of implementing regulations
I.2. Long Term Vision study
II. Strengthening of coordination capacities
II.1. Central coordination at the Permanent Secretariat of PSMC, including
IEC
II.2. PSMC Field Units
III. Strengthening of public intervention capacities
III.1. Public health management
III.2. Oil Spill Response Planning: Plan and implementation
III.3. Support to decentralized administrations
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
IV.1. International Advisory Panel
IV.2. Environmental Management, Performance and Capacity Monitoring
Systems
Project Component 1 e Development of an enabling regulatory framework
Cost: US$ 1.3 million (including the repayment of the PPF), IDA funding: US$
1.3 million
9.      The country presently faces three difficult challenges in managing the
environment in the petroleum sector: (i) the lack of implementation decrees
- 10 -



for most of the environmental legislation that has been passed recently, (ii)
the lack of clear procedures for delivering permits and authorizations to the
pipeline sponsors, and (iii) the lack of technical and financial resources in
Government to carry out the program of environmental monitoring and promote
poverty alleviation through the pipeline project. CAPECE's first component
addresses the first two challenges by developing enabling regulations and
procedures for environmental protection in the petroleum sector. It will also
design a long term vision for environmental management in the petroleum
sector in Cameroon.
(a) Preparation and Publication of the required implementation decrees.
Cost: US$ 0.15 million
10.     The implementation of the 1996 environmental law (96/12) and other
environmental protection-related laws that have been enacted as a follow up
of the National Environmental Management Plan (NEMP), is hampered by the
lack of appropriate implementing regulations. CAPECE will assist in the
drafting and development of implementation decrees and strengthening
enforcement capacity of all agencies involved in pipeline impact monitoring.
The list of priority implementation decrees to be published is given below
(Box 1).
Box 1: High priority decrees to be prepared and published on environmental
management in the petroleum sector in Cameroon
(i) the implementation modalities of articles 17 e 19 of the National
Environmental Framework Law concerning environmental impact assessment
(ii) the list of substances for which spilling, immersion and incineration
in marine waters are prohibited under Cameroonian legislation
(iii) describing the measures taken to prevent and fight all marine pollution
coming from vessels and facilities sited on or off shore
(iv) describing the implementation modalities of the measures laid out in
article 36 (2) of the environmental framework law, concerning pollution
control
(v) describing the conditions under which waste collection, sorting,
storage, transport, recovery, recycling, or any other form of waste
processing and recycling is performed, as well as the technical prescriptions
for burying waste
(vi) defining the conditions under which a pollutant can be emitted in air,
water or on the ground, as well as norms and standards for such emissions in
the natural environment, including inland waters
(vii) describing the implementation modalities of the measures mentioned in
article 58 of the Environmental Framework Law, related to chemical, toxic
and/or hazardous substances, as well as the list of these toxic and/or
hazardous substances
(viii) describing the implementation modalities of the measures in article
61 related to noise and odor nuisances
(ix) Regulation on radioactive substances
(x) Regulatory text establishing the conditions under which individuals or
organizations qualify for the controls and audits of gazetted industries, as
well as laboratories qualified to determine the quantity and quality of
effluents produced by the said industries
(xi) Regulatory text determining the safety perimeter around gazetted
industries
(xii) Decree establishing the service modalities for the employment of civil
- 11 -



servants in the administration in charge of gazetted industries
11.     The preparation of these implementing regulations will be done through
close coordination among all agencies involved in environmental management
and protection and legal instruments drafting at governmental level.
Workshops will be organized to discuss the draft regulations at various
stages to ensure large and adequate participation of stakeholders,
administrative commitment, and future applicability and implementation of the
proposed regulations.
12.     A training program for staff involved in environmental monitoring and
environmental law enforcement is being prepared in the framework of the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and will be implemented during the course
of the project. Dissemination and public information campaigns on the
published regulations will be organized under the IEC component. Material
related to environmental law requirements and enforcement will be
disseminated among all interested stakeholders.
13.     The completion of the legal component will require the recruitment and
assistance of two international consultants, one specialized in environmental
norms and standards, the other one specialized in environmental law. A team
of national consultants which will benefit from the short-term support of an
international environmental law expert will be necessary. Terms of
references for this purpose have been prepared by PSMC and agreed by the
Bank. A total of 6 person-months of international consultants will be
needed.
(b) Development of a Long Term Vision for environmental management of
the petroleum sector. Cost: US$ 0.28 million.
14.     The management of the environmental and social impacts of the petroleum
sector can only be sustainable when the Government of Cameroon has decided on
its optimal institutional setup and put it in place. A study, to be carried
out in year 3 of the project, will help develop this long term vision. It
will assess the present institutions and their performance, develop scenarios
on alternative institutional setups, and provide the decision makers with the
elements and information required to choose among the scenarios. The terms of
reference for this study will be included in the PIM. It will require the
input of 6 person-months of international consultants and 6 person-months of
national consultants.
Project Component 2 e Strengthening Coordination Capacity for Environmental
Management
Cost: US$ 3.1 million, IDA funding: US$ 0.9 million
15.     The Coordination provided under the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring
Committee will include:
Technical coordination of the field interventions (health, biophysical and
socio-economic impact management),
Ensuring the liaison with the sponsors,
Implementing an IEC strategy to keep all the stakeholders informed of the
progress accomplished.
16.     During the pipeline construction, the field units and the strengthened
- 12 -



central PSMC staff will include 16 key professionals and a reasonable number
of support personnel. The staff will be placed at the disposal of the
project by Government departments for the duration of the project. The terms
of reference of the professional positions are being drafted by the central
PSMC unit and will be included in the PIM. Positions will be advertised
within the administration, and the selected candidates will be placed at the
disposal of PSMC. The capacity of the whole staff in PSMC and the concerned
administrations will be increased through specialized training, and
logistical support will be provided. A training plan is being prepared and
will be included in the PIM. Incentives are being developed to ensure that
the trained staff put the training they receive to the best use for the
project. In areas where national staff cannot be found, technical assistance
by international consultants may be provided.
17.     The increased capacity will be primarily located in the field, where the
actual environmental impacts should be avoided or mitigated. A light
coordinating capacity will also be built at the central PSMC level, in order
to facilitate cross-sectoral cooperation. Also, at PSMC central level,
capacity for Information, education and communication (IEC) on the themes
developed by CAPECE will be enhanced, in coordination with the communication
strategy of COTCO.
(a) Central Coordination. Cost: US$ 2.3 million
18.     The specific tasks related to the environmental activities will be
caried out by a team of high-level specialists to be located in the
Environment, Routing and Security section (ERS) of the Permanent Secretariat
of PSMC. The specialists will cover the whole range of bio-physical, socio-
economic and health management skills required for the implementation of the
EMP (see box 2). They will report to the Permanent Secretary of PSMC and
work closely with the Communication Division of SNH on the IEC sub-component.
The cost of logistical support to the central coordinating unit over the
project period is estimated at US$ 2.1 million.
Box 2: General skills required in the central unit
one biophysical specialist (environmentalist, fauna and flora, pollution
management)
one socio-economic specialist (population, local development, conflict
resolution)
one human health (public health management) specialist
(b) Field Units. Cost: US$ 0.8 million
19.     The three field units will have the same mix of skills as the central
one, with a focus on natural resource management because of the nature of the
environmental issues in the field (pollution expertise will be managed
centrally and made available to the field units on request). The field units
will manage their own logisitics and their activities will be coordinated by
one of the technical specialists. The major responsibility of the field
units will be to monitor COTCO's performance and to ensure that inspection
and control activities that need to be performed by Government agencies are
indeed conducted in a timely and technically/ scientifically acceptable
manner. The cost of logistical support and local consultant services for the
field units is estimated at US$ 0.7 million.
- 13 -



Box 3: General skills required in each field unit
one biophysical specialist (environmentalist, fauna and flora) full-time.
one socio-economic specialist (population, local development, conflict
resolution) full-time.
one human health (public health) specialist moving from one unit to the other
as needed.
The central unit will contract locally for specialized services when needed.
The project makes provision for contracting for expert services in at least
the following areas:
Conducting a planning study of sites likely to be impacted by the
construction of fixed facilities ("zones at risk").
Providing support to and monitoring the activities of the Environmental
Foundation with respect to the implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Plan,
Providing support and monitoring of the impact of pipeline construction on
cultural heritage, with particular reference to archaeological impacts.
Conducting a socio-economic study with beneficiary participation to assess
the impacts of pipeline construction on project affected people.
20.     The field units will be responsible for a small number of direct
interventions, e.g. advising the consortium and their central unit on
technical matters that need immediate attention or that are of minor
importance. The bulk of the activities of the field units, though, will be
to ensure proper liaison with the relevant local representatives of
governmental agencies (MINEF, MMEWR, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social
Affairs, Transportation) to enforce the applicable standards, regulations and
laws in their respective areas of competence and fulfill their
responsibilities. This will include contacting the proper administrative
unit, presenting requests in a proper format, following through to ensure a
quick response to the query (administrative authorization, or technical
control) and recording the results of the intervention in the Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) system.
21.     The field units will work closely with the local representatives of
these governmental agencies that will be involved during the construction and
the operation of the project. In case where local expertise is insufficient,
specialists from central services of governmental agencies will intervene or
private experts will be contracted. The field unit staff will be selected
on the basis of their field experience and their ability to work with other
staff from the decentralized and central technical services of GoC. The
staffing of the field units will require a total of 13 specialists (3 teams
of three people each + 1 backup team + 1 specialist in marine environment),
adequate transport and communication equipment. Selection of staff for these
positions will be subject to Bank approval.
22.     The activities to be undertaken jointly between the Field Units and the
the various agencies involved in environmental management and protection
within the government of Cameroon are described hereafter.
Biophysical environment.
23.     The activities include:
-   monitoring atmospheric emissions;
-   monitoring wastewater management;
-   control of the hydraulic tests of the pipeline
- 14 -



- protection of surface and underground water resources;
-   protection of soils against erosion
-   protection of vegetation and fauna;
-   monitoring of the activities of the offsite environmental management
programs;
-   monitoring marine outlets and assuring protection of the marine
environment ;
-   assessing the biophysical risk.
During the construction phase, the emphasis will be on administrative
surveillance and permanent control of works; during operations, the emphasis
will be on the control of the consequences on the environment.
Socio-economic activities.
24.     The activities include:
-   monitoring the implementation of the Compensation Plan,
-   assisting local authorities to manage the consequences of population
movements related to the construction activities;
-   promoting the participation, as relevant, of Cameroonian Small and Medium
Enterprises (SME);
-   monitoring the recruitment and training plans of COTCO
-   the control of the respect of the Right Of Way, and of the conditions of
its utilization during the operational phase;
- the protection of cultural, archaeological and religious sites, and the
proper handling of archeological chance finds;
-   the monitoring of IPP activities.
Health Management.
25.     The activities of the health specialist coordinator in the field units
(one specialist will cover the three field units on a rotating basis) will
include:
-   monitoring the health status of citizens in the regions traversed by the
pipeline
-   identifying the needs for interventions from the Ministry of Health to
improve the health status and decrease any negative health impacts of the
pipeline's construction and operation,
-   monitoring the implementation of COTCO's health-related interventions,
including the community health management outreach, and the Indigenous
Peoples Plan,
-   liaise with the biophysical and the socioeconomic experts to identify
possible health issues (e.g. from poor drinking water quality) as early as
possible, before negative impacts occur,
-   facilitate emergency interventions.
This specialist will move from one field unit to the other and will not be
attached to any particular field unit during the construction of the
pipeline.
(c) Training
26.     Training will be provided to PSMC staff as well as Government
institutions involved (see component 3) to a total of 30-40 professionals
with short training sessions, mainly provided on-the-job in Cameroon. The
training will be coordinated by the PSMC (Permanent Secretariat with the
- 15 -



assistance of the Human Resources Unit of SNH) with the training provided by
COTCO for their field staff, and, if feasible, with that provided for the
Chadian counterparts (CTNSC) to maximize synergies. A total budget of US$
700,000 has been earmarked for training.
27.     Training will be provided for the following specialities/skills: (i)
environmental and petroleum specialists (environmental management concepts
and methods, environmental assessment and review, environmental monitoring,
design and implementation of environmental mitigating measures), (ii) health
specialists (environmental health monitoring and mitigation), (iii) socio-
economic specialists (surveys and monitoring of income, design and monitoring
of compensation schemes), (iv) administrative officers (financial management,
procurement, disbursement capacity), (v) magistrates and other employees of
the judicial system to improve them to implement the new legal and regulatory
framework on environment in the petroleum sector and (vi) all the specialists
involved in the project (management, office technology, networking, English
language, knowledge management). Training will be provided to the three
field units as well as to the coordinating agency. As relevant, the audience
in training sessions will incorporate contractors and other stakeholders to
facilitate communication between these groups PSMC.
28.     The priority will be on hands-on training in Cameroon.    For training
activities where no supply is available in Cameroon, a limited number of
training sessions may be organized abroad. Participants to these sessions
will commit themselves to remaining at the service of the project for at
least 3 years after completion of the training. A full Training Plan will be
developed within the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) before
effectiveness.
Box 9: List and schedule of training activities
Environmental Management Information Systems (2000)
Information on the EMP (project launching early 2000)
Pollution inspectors (2000)
Recycling of pilots (2001)
Legal training (2000)
Implementation of the new environmental protection decrees (2000)
Implementation of the Government Oil Spill Plan (2001)
Languages and Information Technology (2000 and 2001)
Health training (2000-4)
Training for IEC (2000-4)
Conflict Resolution (2000)
(d) Information, Education, and Communication
29.     The IEC activities financed under the project will include:
Outreach to foreign stakeholders, notably in OECD countries,
Communication with the the project affected population, NGOs, the Consortium,
the rest of the Government and the general public;
Setting up and maintenance of an Internet site and a Knowledge Management
system.
30.     Logistical and training requirements for the IEC activities have been
assessed and a budget of US$ 200,000 has been allocated to that sub-
component. The health management sub-component has its own IEC activities
- 16 -



which are additional to the US$ 200,000.
Project Component 3 e Strengthening Intervention Capacity for Environmental
Management, Cost: US$ 5.8 million, IDA funding: US$ 2.7 million
31.     This component of CAPECE supports the implementation of the EMP by
supplying Cameroonian agencies with the equipment, the skills and the working
environment that will allow them to perform their basic functions in a rapid
response mode and efficiently. Key sub-components are:
Health management,
Government Oil Spill Response Planning and Implementation,
Capacity Building in decentralized services of the Cameroonian
Administration.
(a) Health management. Cost: US$ 1.0 million.
32.     During pipeline construction, COTCO will take responsibility for work-
related health issues, while the Republic of Cameroon will need to deal with
public health issues that might otherwise generate diseases or injuries
associated with the pipeline project among the neighboring population.
Principal concerns are the possible transmission of vector and sexually
transmitted diseases (especially HIV/AIDS), traffic and other injuries, and
potential project impacts on food supply and nutrition.
33.     Although HIV/AIDS prevalence in Cameroon is low by African standards
(less than 59-), the problem is significant and reaches major proportions in
certain population subgroups (truckers 15%-, sex workers up to 20%), according
to available statistics. Cameroon does not yet have a national HIV/AIDS
strategy; the Bank intends to pursue this issue in the context of the
forthcoming CAS discussions. The appropriate strategy in this situation is
to focus on prevention and on changing the behavior of the groups at the
highest risk. Construction workers, casual labor, truckers and suppliers,
and camp followers will be the target groups for the HIV/AIDS prevention
program under the CCPEP and CAPECE. The Consortium will regularly screen
workers and conduct a program of health education and immunizations,
including subsidized distribution of condoms. HIV/AIDS status will be
monitored through an Epidemiological Information System established for
workers and a Sentinel Surveillance System set up in the communities affected
by work camps and fixed facilities. The Consortium will also implement a
Community Health Outreach Program focusing on information, education, and
selected preventive or curative actions. (See Annex 14 of the CCPEP PAD.)
34.     To complement these activities carried out by the Consortium, under
CAPECE, the Ministry of Health will strengthen its statistical data
collection and processing, provide training to community health workers, and
improve the delivery of community health services by providing vaccines,
medications, and laboratory analysis services and supplies in 10 health
districts located along the length of the pipeline route. Specifically with
respect to HIV/AIDS, the Government will also contract with an experienced
local NGO to deliver a program of information, education, and social
marketing in the project area, under the supervision of the National AIDS
Committee. The cost of this program over five years is estimated at US
$140,000.
- 17 -



(b) Government Oil Spill Response Planning and Implementation
Cost: US$ 0.7 million
35.     The Government of Cameroon needs to undertake activities to complement
the efforts of the Consortium in preventing and mitigating environmental and
social impacts. In particular, the Consortium is preparing an Oil Spill
Response Plan which will require coordinated actions on the part of the GoC.
A study will design a national emergency response plan against accidental
(terrestrial or marine) pollution by hydrocarbons. This study will be
carried out by national (?) consultants with the full involvement of all
potential stakeholders.
36.     The terms of reference of this feasibility study have been drafted and
will be annexed to the PIM. Copies are available in the project files.
(c) Capacity Building in decentralized services of the Cameroonian
Administration. Cost: US$ 4.1 million.
37.     The relevant ministries, including those in charge of Environment,
Mines, Urban Affairs and Transports, will be strengthened through training,
networking and logistical support. The target for training and equipment
financing is the field staff in the decentralized administrative units along
the route of the pipeline. That staff will have a key role to play in
providing directly the assistance needed to monitor and mitigate the
environmental and social impacts, in a coordinated way, upon call from the
field units of PSMC. Given the limited extent of practical and effective
interministerial coordination in the field in Cameroon, much of the initial
work of the field units of PSMC will be to set up a framework for such
cooperation.
38.     The agencies involved in the implementation of the project will benefit
from the purchase, operation and maintenance of needed equipment. The
equipment will include (i) office equipment (computers, modems, cellular
phones, radios, fax machines), (ii) vehicles, and, (iii) specialized
equipment for measuring and monitoring environmental impacts. The Permanent
Secretariat of PSMC will retain the overall management and allocation of the
equipment financed under this project. It will grant permission to the
respective collaborating Government institutions to use the equipment on the
basis of a pre-established monthly program, periodically inspect the stock
and obtain periodic reports on the use, location and the state of the
equipment funded under the project. Recurrent costs of the equipment will be
funded by SNM for the duration of the project.
39.     The cost of training for decentralized agency staff is included in the
training cost given under component 2. Logistic support, including recurrent
costs, for decentralized agency staff is estimated at US$ 335,000 over the
life of the project. In addition, US$ 1.0 is allocated for local consultancy
services such as private laboratory analyses and short interventions by
qualified local experts in specific fields.
Project Component 4 eMonitoring and evaluation
Cost: US$ 0.8 million, IDA funding: US$ 0.8 million
(a) Services of an International Advisory Panel
- 18 -



40.     The services from an International Advisory Panel (IAP) will be
contracted and provided to PSMC/SP/ERS. The services will be expected in the
following fields: (i) biophysical environment e generalist, (ii) biophysical
environment emarine biology, (iii) socio-economy and (iv) environmental
health. The composition of the IAP may vary over the years, according to the
priority areas to be covered. The experts will be mobilized from a
specialized company or university, with a minimum of one visit per year. The
IAP will report to the PSMC/SP and the Committee itself as required. The
Panel's annual reports will be supplied to the PSMC/SP and will be officially
approved and thereafter made public. Copies will be made available to the
Bank. The initial terms of reference (first year) and the experts' profiles
will be included in the Project Implementation Manual. The cost of IAP
intervention is US$ 408,000 over the five-year period.
(b) Project Management and Control. Cost: US$ 0.4 million.
41.     The project will fund the establishment, operation and maintenance of:
A Monitoring and Evaluation system that will monitor the enabling activities
planned in the CAPECE and evaluate if capacity is being built. It will also
monitor all actions to be undertaken by the government for a sound
environment management.
An Environmental Information System (EMIS) which will compile the information
gathered by the project and external partners on the state of the
environment, health and livelihood indicators in the pipeline influence area,
and disseminate it to the government as well as external stakeholders.
Both systems are developed jointly and with the same approach in Chad and in
Cameroon to ensure maximum compatibility.
42.     EMIS will compile the information gathered by the project and external
partners on the state of the environment, health and livelihood indicators in
the pipeline influence area, and disseminate it to the government as well as
external stakeholders. The design and development of EMIS will be finalized
during the first year of CAPECE implementation. For that purpose, two
consultants (a designer, likely an international consultant and a developer,
likely a national consultant) will be hired. The system will be designed
according to the following principles (i) sharing of technical data (measures
of environmental indicators on biophysical, health and socio-economic topics)
between stakeholders (government and COTCO mainly) through a common database
maintained by COTCO or, if found appropriate by an external sub-contractor;
(ii) organization of data will follow the structure of the EMP (biophysical,
socio-economic and health themes subdivided into topics); (iii) production of
detailed technical periodic reports listing all data on the environment
impact of the Pipeline shared in the common database; (iv) communication of
an environment report to all partners (NGOs, Government, International
partners, donors...) through summary tables available on a web-site
maintained by the government or, if found appropriate, by an external sub-
contractor.
43.     Monitoring and Evaluation system.   The project M&E system will (i)
enable a sound planning of activities to be undertaken for the three
functions above and that fit within a comprehensive logical framework; (ii)
set mutually agreed, realistic and clear objectives for each activity and
measure gaps between actual and targeted values of these indicators; (iii)
produce a variety of reports adapted, to the extent possible, to the needs of
- 19 -



the various stakeholders in order to present relevant information in a
synthetic and ready to use manner. The design of the system, which is already
underway, will be finalized during preparation of the project and described
in the PIM. An important feature of the system will be its link with the
financial and accounting system that will enable a comparison of financial
data with technical outputs. Operation of the system will be under the
responsibility of a monitoring and evaluation specialist whose terms of
reference are to ensure that procedures for planning, monitoring and
evaluation are implemented according the manual; and to produce each periodic
report, in accordance with the procedures set-up for the monitoring and
evaluation, identify activities where there are discrepancies between amount
disbursed and physical output, identify reasons for such discrepancies, and
eventually suggest solutions to the identified problems.
44.     Annual technical and financial audits of project management will be
conducted. A financial analysis will be conducted at mid-term to evaluate
progress towards cost-effectiveness of the organizations in place.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be
able to download the complete original version by going to
- 20 -



