Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,i-%a-  IL? 7f-A161
Report No. 6634-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 20, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienb ony in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofization.



CURRENCY ELUIVArDENTS
Currency Unit a Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1 2 Mex$ 1235
Mex$1 million - US$810
(May 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
W4EIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric:  British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)          m  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)    =  2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)              =  0.26 gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
AADT                        Average Annual Daily Traffic
BANOBRAS                    National Bank for Public Works and Services
CyPF                        Caminos y Puentes Federales, the
Toll Road and Bridge Authority
DGCOP                       Directorate General for Maintenance of Public
Works
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
HDM                         Hlghway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IBRD                        International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDB                         Tnter-American Development Bank
ICB                         International Competitive Bidding
LCB                         Local Competitive Bidding
NPV                         Net Present Vilue
PEMEX                       Mexican Petro'eum Monopoly
SAHOP                       Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SCT                         Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SHCP                        Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP                         Secretariat of Programing and Budgeting



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT SUMMARY     . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
II.   THE TPANSPORT SECTO   . . . . . . . . . . . . .........    4
A.   The Transport System:
(i)  Transport and the Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
(ii)  Institutional Framework . . . . . . . . . . * . . . .  5
(iii)  Transport Investment  .       .      .... .. ........    6
B.   Bank Involvement in the Sector and
Current Lending Strate',.    ................    6
C.  The Highway Subsector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
(i)  The Network   ..        .    ...  ..........    7
(ii)  Institutional Framework      ............  .   7
(iii)  Highway Investment  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
D. Highway Maintenance ....................  10
(i)  Status and Needs of the Network . . . . . . . . . . . 10
(ii)  Maiatenance Budgets . .  .  .. ...... . . . .. ... 12
(iii)  Maintenance Planning and Programing . . . . . . . . . 12
(iv)  Cost Recovery and Road IUser Charges . . . . . . . . . 12
III.   THE MAINTENANCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT   . . . . . . 13
A.   Project Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . 13
B.  SCT's Four-year Maintenance Improvement Program  . . . . . . 14
C.  The ProJect and Its Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
(i)  Project Objectives  . .. . . . . ... . . .  . . . .    15
(ii)  Project Scope . . . .                         . . . . 15
(iii)  Periodic Maintenance of Roads and Bridges . . . . . . 15
(iv)  Equipment Replacement, Rehabilitation and
Acquisition . oo. .......a....................... 16
(v)  Workshops, Tools and Equipment  . . . . . . . . .  . .  16
(vi)  Training Program       . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
(vii)  Consulting Services and Technical Assistance. . . . . 18
D.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . .  . . .  . . . .   . ... .   18
E.  Economic Evaluation and Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Fe  Risk Assessment  . . . * , * * * * a &   * . * * . . . .       21
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mexico in November 1986.  The Mission was comprised of Messrs. L. Schiffman,
Senior Transport Engineer (Mission Leader) and K. Ohbi, Economist. Mr. M.
Demarre, Bridge Engineer, assisted in establishing the project's bridge
component, and Mr. J. Duarte, Financial Analyst, assisted the mission in
matters related to accounting and auditing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   22
A.   Subproject Selection, Preparation and Evaluation . . . . .   22
S.  Project Execution   .. . .. ...   . O . e * * . . . X  . . . .   23
C.  Project Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . v. . . . . .   23
D.  Procurement and Consultant Services  . . a. . . .   . . . .   24
E.  Disbursements, Accounts and Audits   . . . . *. . . . . .     28
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
TABLES
2.1  Indicators of Highway Demand 1970-1985  . . . . . . . . . .   31
2.2  Transport Investment Summary (1977-1986)  .     .  .  . . . . . . .   92
2.3  Prior Transport Lending v . . o * . . . . . . .    o v .  v . . .  33
2.4  Highway Traffic on Selected Toll Roads  . . . . . . . . . . .   34
2.5  Development of the Road Network (1952-1986)   a                 35
2.6  Federal Highway Network - Design Criteria and Standards . . .   36
2.7  Distribution of Maintenance Personnel by Centro . . . . . . .   37
2.8  Federal Highway Investments (1977-1986)   . a . . . . . . a .   38
2.9  Condition Inventory of the Federal Highway Network (1985/86).    39
2.10  SCT's Maintenance Budgets . . . . . . . . . . a . . . . *     40
2.11  History of Fuel Prices  . . . . . .* *   * .  * * * eo* * *    41
2.12 Comparative Costs and Revenues  .. .. .  . . . . . . . . . .   42
3.1  Past and Ongoing Operations in the Highway Subsector  . . . .   43
3.2  Composition of Maintenance Improvement Program
and Physical Targets  ......,..... *.    e   *               44
3.3  Proposed SCT Road Maintenance Budgets   . . . . . . . . . . .   45
3.4  Pavement Strengthening Program  .    *  . . . e  e    * * * *  . * *  46
3.5  Periodic Maintenance Program for 1987 . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
3.6  Proposed Periodic Maintenance Program for 1988  . . . . . , .   48
3.7  Tentative Periodic Maintenance Program (1989-1991)  . . . . .   49
3.8   Summary of Estimated Costs  . . . . . . . *    * * . . . . e    o   a   50
3.9  Maintenance Interventions for Asphaltic Concrete Paved Roads    51
4.1  Allocation of Loan Proceeds . o. . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   52
4.2  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements   .  , . . . . .   *        53
ANNEXES
1.  Past Bank Involvement and Operational Issues
in the Highway Sector . ao. ....a    .     .a ,     . e  a   54
2.  Maintenance of Bridges on the Federal Highway Network . . . .   62
3.  SCT's Road Maintenance Equipment Fleet  . . . . a .  a . . .    72
4.  Road and Equipment Maintenance Training Program . . . . . . .   87
5.  Technical Assistance and Consulting Services  . . . . . . . .   99
6.  Economic Analysis and Evaluation of the Maintenance Program .  102
7.  Implementation Plan for Project Execution  .. .. a. * .. ,   113



Page No.
8.   Project Execution and Monitoring    v 8 . . . . . . . . . . .  117
9.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File  . .  122
CHARTS
Chart I - Organization of SCT .tionofeTe.v. v.vve124
Chart 2 - SCT:  Highway Maintenance Organization  . . 0 . . . . * . .  125
Chart 3 - Organization (Typical) Centro SCT . . . . . O e . . , . e e  126
MAP
IBRD 20343 - MEXICO: Federal Road Network



MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.
(BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:       United Mex:can States
Beneficiary:      Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT)
Amount:           US$135 million
Terms:           Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending        Loan proceeds to be relent to Government (for SCT) on same
Terms:            terms and conditions as the Bank loan with the Government
bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Objectives:      The objective of the proposed project is, primarily, to
assist the Government and SCT in improving road maintenance
operations for the federal network so that the present
backlog of deferred periodic maintenance can be reduced or
eliminated and maintenance requirements provided for in
future on a timely basis. In additior., the project would
help to promote the inplementation of appropriate cost
recovery policies for road users.
Project
Description:     The Project would help to support the Government's Five-Year
Maintenance Improvement Program (1987-1991). Financing
would be provided for a portion of the Program and would
include: (a) periodic maintenance of paved federal roads
and bridges; (b) provision of new, improved or expanded
workshop facilities, including required machinery, tools and
spare parts; (c) procurement of road maintenance equipment;
(d) implementation of SCT's equipment overhaul and
rehabilitation program; (e) training in equipment operation,
repair and maintenance and in road maintenance planning and
operations; and (f) consulting services for training and for
studies and technical support to upgrade maintenance
planning, design and execution. Since the needs greatly
exceed the funds available, the size of the Program is
based on the budgetary resources that the Government has
confirmed will be allocated and represents the minimum level
of expenditures needed to prevent further deterioration of
the federal road network.



- 2 -
Risks:           There are three main risks with regard to the Project.
The first concerns the possible failure by the Government to
allocate sufficient budgetary funds on a timely basis.
However, this rlsk is mitigated by the Government's
agreement to hold annual consultations on road investments
and to provide the necessary budgetary resources to carry
out the Federal Road Maintenance Improvement Program.
The second, concerning the Road User Cost Recovery Scheme,
involves the possibility that future progress on this policy
issue may face political resistance, particularly regarding
increases in taxes to fully recover the cost of road damage
attributable to trucks and other heavy vehicles. However,
the Government has taken a series of measures to increase
taxes on trucks In the 1987 tax law, including an initial
130% increase in road tolls for trucks which are to be
further raised to bring the total increase to 260% In 1987,
as well as substantial increases in annual truck permit
taxes. Also, the price of diesel fuel has been increased by
130% during the past year to bring it in line with border
prices. In light of the foregoing, and the Government's
agreement to implement the Road User Cost Recovery Scheme
and raise user taxes on trucks and other heavy vehicles to
cover at least the related marginal costs attributable to
them, this risk is also acceptable. Lastly, there is the
risk that the institutional strengthening aspects will not
be given the necessary priority. Project preparation has
proceede in close collaboration with Government authorities
in ord- a ensure commitment to objectives and minimize
these rw   9
Estimated Cost:  The total cost of the SCT 1987-1991 Highwav Maintenance
Improvement Program for the Federal Highway Network is
estimated at US$910 million. The proposed Project
represents 31% (US$282 million equivalent) of the total
program with a forelgn exchange component of US$135 million
equivalent.   The Bank loan would cover 100% of the foreign
exchange requirements of the project components.



-3-
Estimated Project Costs:                         ----          US$ million
Bank
Project Component                           Local    Foreign   Total  Participation
1.   Periodic Maintenance Program for
Roads on the Federal Highway Network       94.60      60.40   155.00    60.40
2.   Repair and Rehabilitation Program for
Existing Bridges and Culverts on the
Federal Highway Network                    15.25       9.75    25.00      9.75
3.   Workshop Construction, Rehabilitation,
Improvement and Expansion Program
including Workshop Tools and Equipment
and an Initial Stock of Spare Parts
for Scheduled Maintenance                   3.75       2.25     6.00      2.25
4.   Repair and Rehabilitation Program for
Existing Equipment                          2.50       5.50     8.00      5.50
5.   Procurement of New Road Maintenance
Equipment                                   2.50      32.50    35.00    30.00
6.   Training Program including Technical
Support for Training                        0.90       0.50      1.40     1.40
7.   Consulting Services and Technical Support   1.70         0.80      2.50     2.50
Total Base Costs                       121.20    111.70   232.90   111.80
Physical Contingencies                       12.10      11.20    23.30    11.20
Price Contingencies                          13.20      12.10    25.30    12.00
Total Project Cost 1/                  146.50    135.00   281.50   135.00
Financing:
US$ Million
Government                              146.5
Bank                                    135.0
Total                                   281.5
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year              1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual                   14.02/   9.0    28.3    32.4    25.7    17.5        8.1
Cumulative               14.0    23.0    51.3    83.7   109.4   126.9   135.0
Rate of Return: Over 40%.
1/ Includes US$45 million equivalent in taxes and duties.
2/  Early disbursements due to retroactive financing of initial works.



- 4 -
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
(i) Transport and the Economy
2,01      The dramatic swings in the Mexican economy over the past 10 years
have had a significant impact on the transport sector. The surge in economic
activity in the late 1970's and early 1980's with GDP rising by an average 6%
per year in real terms coupled with an unprecedented demand for imported
grains led to a period of high traffic growth for all modes of transport
(Table 2.1). The ports registered annual average increases of over 8X in
cargo tons handled from 1978 to 1981. Railway traffic increased by 5% per
year from 1977 to 1981 and would have been higher except for eerious
operational and physical bottlenecks. Highway traffic grew by over 13%
annually during the same period. Despite an extensive transport network,
including some 225,000 km of roads (75,000 km paved), about 20,000 km of
railways, 20,000 km of pipelines, some 33 ports serving international traffic
and 50 airports capable of handling medium and larger size aircraft,
transport bottlenecks were occurring which directly affected major economic
sectors,  Investment in transport, which had declined in relative terms from
26% of public sector investment before the 1970's to 9%, was accelerated,
particularly for ports and railways.  The sectoral focus was on prov.ding
sufficient capacity to support the oil-led growth of the economy.
2.02      By 1982, however, the fiscal over-expansion of the economy became
untenable.  The fiscal deficit reached over 17% of GDP.  Subsidies had
already reached over 8% of GDP by 1980. Capital flight accelerated and the
peso had to be devalued by 268% in nominal terms in 1982. GDP fell in 1982
and in 1983. As the Government's stabilization, demand-management program
took hold, traffic declined and the focus in the transport sector was on
helping to reduce the fiscal deficit by improving operational efficiency,
curtailing investment and reducing unwarranted subsidies. With declining
personal income and industrial activity and substantial real increases in
transport-related prices, road traffic grew by only 4% per year from 1981 to
1985 and rail traffic by a little over 1% annually. Port traffic declined by
3.5% over the period as domestic grain production recovered, replacing import
requirements.
2.03      The uncertainty in the economy makes long range estimates of
transport needs difficult. The restructuring of Mexican industry,
particularly in the steel and fertilizer subsectors has serious implications
for the transport sector. Furthermore, the focus on promoting
non-traditional exports to fuel the economic recovery suggests that new types
of commodity movements, which require higher levels of transport services as
compared with traditional traffic flows, will place new demands on the
transport system. Over the next several years, however, as budgets remain
limited, the emphasis in transport will be to: treat the backlog of
maintenance and rehabilitation works which have accumulated; minimize new
construction; and continue to rationalize public sector expenditures. The
following discussion of the sector generally focuses on issues which relate
to the highway subsector and road maintenance, in particular. A recent
Sector Strategy Paper (Green Cover, February 20, 1987) provides a broader



- 5 -
assessment of the main se^toral issues.  In addition, recent Staff Appraisal
Reports for the Second Highway Sector Project (2428-ME, FY84) and the Railway
Sector Project (2575-ME, FY85) provide a detailed discussiol, o. land
transport.
(ii) Institutional Framework
2.04      The transport sector in general is characterized by a relatively
stable and qui1ified cadre of high level staff which do not change
significantly with changes in Government administration. The principal
issue, however, which was continuously identified hy Bank sector reviews in
the 1970's, was the lack of coordination in the transport sector due to the
multiplicity of ministries responsible for the various modes. In late 1982,
the Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT) was reorganized
(Chart 1) to encompass all transport modes with three subsecretariats: one
for infrastructure, responsible for the design, execution and maintenance of
all civil works; one for operations, responsible for all transport
operations, tariffs and regulations and for overseeing parastatal
enterprises; and one for communications. In addition, a Directorate General
for Planning (DGP), answering to the Secretary, was established with
responsibility for investment and geaeral hudgetary planning and monitoring.
While the reformulation with regard to the subsecretariats was carried out
relatively smoothly, it has taken more time to establish an effective
planning entity with the capability to handle all transport modes. Staff,
organizational and technical constraints have had to be overcome.
2.05      Planning units within the various modal directorates are
responsible for identifying and proposing capital investments and operating
budget estimates. They provide the technical. details required for the
analyses of investments and, in some cases, carry out the economic
evaluations. DGP, in turn, has the responsibility for carrying out or
reviewing the economic evaluation and providing a multimodal, consistent
analytical framewvrk for the preparation of the medium- and long-term
investment programs. The Secretariat for Programing and Budgetting (SPP) has
played an important role in ensuring consistent modal planning. The
Directorate General for Public Infrastructure and Social Development of SPP
must approve the proposed SCT investment and oierating budgets and conducts a
serious review of all major investments in the sector. This Directorate is
also responsible for approving the budgets of the transport parastatal
enterprises and calls on the relevent directorates of SCT for their opinion.
2.06      Bank efforts through the recent loans to the various subsectors
have sought to help the Government in the upgrading of DGP's capabilities
with the belief that once DGP can demonstrate its ability to effectively
assess the various modes, its role within SCT, vis-a-vis the subsecretariats,
will be enhanced. While the unit's analytical skills and tools are
well-developed for highways, incremental measures have been taken to help DGP
acquire similar skills and tools for the evaluation of rail and port
operations and investments. Foreign and local consultant support has been
contracted and a team of young engineers has been organized as the analytical
core of DGP. Currently, consultants are working to develop a sectoral data
base, to develop and upgrade a set of consistent evaluation methodologies and
to prepare draft "Esquemas Directores", operational and investment
strategies, for each mode. The objective is to have established a



- 6 -
well-orgon'zed and trained planning unit by the end of this sexenium (1988)
with a well-defined sector strategy for the new administration.
(iii) Transport Investment
2.07      When the economic crisis began in 1982, Government had to curtail
radically the sectoral investment plans which were cut by 23Z in real terms
and by 1985, transport investment levels (about US$1,100 million equivalent)
were 43% below the 1981 levels (Table 2.2). The crucial prob'em faced by the
Government was that a broad range of works initiated in 1979-1981 could not
be finished. Therefore, resources were directed to those works which could
be completed quickly and generate immediate benefits while lower priority
undertakings at early stages of execution were stopped. Maintenance
e:rpenditures were generally sustained while construction and equipment were
cut.
2.08      The investment reviews for 1983 to 1985 confirmed the
appropriateness of the Government approach and supported the initiation of
certain high priority works such as the widening of highly congested toll
road sections to tour lanes. The reviews did conclude that there was a
growing backlog of investment needs and deferred maintenance, particularly in
the highway subsector. Since 1985, the fall in oil prices brought about
further economic shocks resulting in another investment budget reduction for
1986 of 39% in real terms from 1985 levels. Investments in roads are
reviewed in paragraphs 2.18 and 2.19.
B. Bank Involvement in the Sector and Current Lending Strategy
2.09      The Bank has made a total of 19 loans to transport to date covering
roads (10), railways (5), ports (3) and air (1) (Table 2.3). Details
concerning the development of Bank lending and conclusions of the audits of
completed projects in the highway subsector are provided in Annex 1. In
highways, as in the other subsectors, the projects met their original
objectives in terms of benefits generated and institution building but faced
delays and cost overruns 1/. While there have been substantial advances in
terms of investment planning, design and constrr-tion and operational
improvements under these projects, prior to 1982 there was much less success
or dialogue with regard to policy issues regarding pricing, user charges,
regulation and subsidies. The problem was partially institutional with the
loans going to the Secretariat of Public Works (SAHOP) or the railways, for
example, while the policies were determined by another secretariat.
2.10      Since 1982 and the change in administration, the role of the Bank
in the sector has changed significantly. The two basic reasons for the
change were the institutional reorganization bringing SCT and SAHOP together
(para 2.04) and, more importantly, the economic crisis during which Bank
lending was of macroeconomic importance and the policy isues which were of
concern to the Bank, were now also of concern to the Government. With the
1/  Third Highway Project (528-ME, FY1968), PPAR No. 832 of August 8, 1975,
Fourth Highway Project (695-ME, FY1970), PPAR No. 2575 of June 29, 1979,
Seventh Highway Project (968-ME, FY1974), PCR No. 5162 of June 25, 1984,
and First Highway Sector Project (1671-ME, FY1979), PCR of March 3, 1986.



- 7 -
reorganization of SCT, the raising of fuel prices to international levels
(para 2.28), the increase and reclassification of railway freight tariffs
reducing railway operating ratios from 145 in 1981 to 95 in 1985, the
enactment of a comprehensive contract between Government and the National
Railways (NdeM) to improve the railway operations and financial status, and
the preparation of studies and concrete proposals to tationalize and improve
cost recovery for roads and ports, the Government showed its commitment to
take the necessary actions in the sector. The Bank responded with a
comprehensive lending program resulting in the Second Fighway Sector Project
(2428-ME, FY84), the Lazaro Cardenas Port Project (2450-ME, FY84), the
Chiapas Rural Roads Project (2525-ME, FY85) and the Railway Sector Project
(2575-ME, FY85).
2.11      Th,e extended economic recession, exacerbated by 'he fall in
international oil prices coupled with the fact that the administration is
entering its last two years have led to a more limited lending program for
the sector. The upcoming projects, including the proposed Highway
Maintenance Project, are directed at meeting the immediate needs of the
present administration, in accordance with the Bank's overall lending
strategy, as well as providing a financing bridge into the early years of the
new administration. In the highway subsector, the Maintenance Project is
designed to help rationalize public sector investment, filling a financing
gap which is not covered by the Second Highway Sector Project (para 3.01),
and to increase public sector revenues through appropriate cost recovery
policies. In this way, the Maintenance Prolect complements the ongoing
Sector Project and is consistent with overall Bank Lending Strategy.
C. The Highway Subsector
(i) The Network
2.12      Road transport in Mexico has consistently maintained its position
as the major mode for both passengers and freight, accounting for over 90% of
all passenger-km and almost 50% of total freight ton-km. Road traffic
generally grew by 10% per year from 1971 to 1981 and since then is still
growing by 4% per year despite economic recession and substartial real price
increases for road related items (Table 2.4). The Federal Highway Network
(FHN), along with the rest of Mexico's road system, has evolved rapidly
(Table 2.5). From 1952, when there were only 27,000 km of roads, of which
16,000 km were paved, the road overall system has grown to over 225,000 km,
of which about 75,000 km are paved (including 1,500 km with four or more
lanes). The slower annual rate of growth of paved roads, from 6.6% per year
between 1952-1960, to 2.4% from 1975-1980 and to 2,0% from 1980-1986, is a
sign that the network has reached relative maturity and that, with the
exception of some areas, the trunk network is in place. Road investment in
the past ten years has shifted from the extension of the trunk network to
rural access roads and, more recently, to the widening of existing trunk
roads to relieve congestion. More information on the operational aspects of
the highway subsector and the road transport industry is provided in
Annex 1.
(ii) Institutional Framework
2.13      Under SCT's organization, road-related operational tasks are
divided between the Subsecretariat for Infrastructure and the Subsecretariat



- 8 -
for Operations (Chart 1). The Subsecretariat for Infrastructure has
jurisdiction over the General Directorate for Federal Roads, the General
Directorate for Rural Roads, the General Directorate for Technical Services
and over the General Directorate for Maintenance of Public Works (DGCOP) as
well. These Directorates have primary responsibility for the design,
construction and maintenance of roads under federal jurisdiction. The
Subsecretariat for Operations includes the General Directorate for Tariffs,
the General Directorate for Road Transport and the General Directorate for
Trafflc Safety, which are responsible for transport service aspects including
vehicle and service regulation tariffs, and safety and police functions. At
the state level, SCT maintains a fully staffed and equipped unit or Centro
SCT in each state (two in Veracruz) to carry out SCT's construction,
maintenance and operational functions.
2.14      Administration of the road network is principally under the
jurisdiction of the Federal Government, with the exception of state and
municipal roads:
(a)  Federal Highways:  SCT is directly responsible for the planning,
construction and maintenance of all federal highways; financing is
100% from federal funds. The network consists of 45,000 km, with
about 41,800 km paved (93%). Approximately 2,150 km have gravel
surfaces and the balance of 1,100 km are earth roads.
(b) Toll Facilities: While SCT plans and constructs toll roads and
bridges, they are operated and maintained by the Federal Road and
Bridge Authority (CyPF). The toll road network consists of 953 km,
of which about 52% have four or more lanes. Toll revenues cover
all operating costs including maintenance and substantial financial
surpluses have been generated in recent years.
(c) State Highways: Planning, construction and maintenance of the
56,000 km of state roads (51% paved) are the responsibility of each
state's highway administration. Coordination with the federal
authorities is carried out by state highway boards (Junta Local de
Caminos), of which the state Governor is chairman and on which SCT
is represented through its Centro SCT. A mixture of federal and
state funding is applied to cover maintenance and construction
costs.
(d)  Local Roads 2/:  The 1,500 km of local roads are also the
responsibility of the state highway boards, and financing is
provided on a t-i-partite basis between the federal government, the
state and local authorities and private enterprises.
(e) Rural Roads: Since 1971, a very large rural roads program has been
carried out, aimed at joining small towns and villages with the
nearest main road and providing temporary employment through the
application of labor-intensive construction methods. Over 85,000
km have been built in the last 15 years under a yariety of federal
2/ Those that, for administrative reasons, are not defined as rural roads.



- 9 -
programs and there are now about 94,000 km of these roads. All
rural roads programs have been now consolidated under SCT, with SCT
having responsibility for construction and maintenance and the
states participating ir. the selection and planning of new roads;
financing is 100% from federal funds.
2.15      SCT's General Directorate for Federal Highways (DGCF) has a large,
well organized staff that designs most of the federal highways and bridges in
the country employing modern techniques; the criteria and standards used
(Table 2.6) are adequate. Most of the construction work is done by DGCF
through contracting with some modernization (widening) works handled by SCT's
DGCOP using the same standards. There are competent Mexican consulting firms
engaged in highway and bridge design, but SCT employs them only when their
staff is fully occupied, and then mainly for major bridge design.
2.16      DGCOP (Chart 2) is responsible both for the maintenance of the
federal highway network and of the rural road system. Maintenance of toll
roads, however, is the responsibility of CyPF. Normal routine and periodic
maintenance is presently carried out mostly by DGCOP's own forces; major
betterment works ("modernization') and some periodic maintenance are carried
out by contract. DGCOP has approximately 15,000 personnel, 520 at
headquarters in Mexico City and about 450 at each centro and its satellites
(Table 2.7). It operates in each state through divisions attached to the
Centros SCT (para 2.13). The maintenance organization of each centro (Chart
3) is supervised by a Resident General for Maintenance responsible to the
Director of the Centro SCT, who in turn reports to the Minister, SCT. In
addition, the Resident General for Maintenance is supervised, insofar as
technical and operational matters are concerned, by the Director General for
Maintenance of Public Works, who is himself responsible, through the
Suboecretary for Infrastructure, to the Minister, SCT (Chart 1). Maintenance
crews are organized by residencies with approximately 100 workers covering
about 500 km per residency. The maintenance, operation and allocation of SCT
equipment are controlled by the Equipment Directorate which is part of
DGCOP. The Equipment Directorate is well organized including a planning and
programing department; systematic records are kept of each item of equipment
and each vehicle, recording its use and maintenance data and forecasting the
timing of its replacement. The main concerns with regard to the
institutional set-up of DGCOP are the planning and programing capabilities in
the central office (para 2.25).
2,17      The Road Construction Industry.  One of the results of more than 25
years of a sustained level of road construction in Mexico has been the
development of a large number of experienced and well equipped road
construction contractors and a well defined relationship between contractors
and SCT. Domestic contracting firms must register annually providing
detailed data on their operations. There is a wide range of capacity among
them, with the emphasis on medium-sized firms. Supervision of construction
is carried out satisfactorily by SCT personnel, There is a healthy
competitive climate among contractors and cons.ruction prices are reasonable,
discouraging foreign firms from bidding for highway contracts in Mexico.
(iii) Highway Investment
2.18        Highways have experienced a continual drop in the relative share
of transport investment, falling from over 60% of investment in 1977 to



- 10 -
almost 40% in the mid-1980's. In re,al terms, the recent cuts in public
sector investment have been particularly severe in the highways. The 1986
budget (Table 2.8) for federal highways (including construction and
maintenance) was 35% below 1985 levels with an equivalent US$ 300 million to
cover almost 46,000 kilometers of some of the most highly 'trafficked" roads
in Latin America. A review of the level of congestion and the condition of
the Mexican network confirm that the budgetary levels are now dangerously
low, leading to excessive vehicle operating costs and allowing the
progressive deterioration of the federal trunk network such that the cost of
future rehabilitation, when funds are finally available, will be
substantially higher. Improvement to four lanes can usually be justified
when traffic reaches between 6,000-8,000 vehicles per day on two-lane roads.
In Mexico, over 4,400 km of road have already reached daily traffic levels of
over 6,000 vehicles, while only 1,500 km of four- or six-lane road have been
provided. While traffic growth has declined because of the recessiort and
increased tolls and fuel prices, the problem of levels of service for
existing traffic remains severe and the estimated rates of return and first
year benefit ratios for modernization works are high.
2.19      The most serious risk caused by the low current budgetary levels,
however, is the accumulating backlog of deferred maintenance as periodic
maintenance needs are not met and the network is strained by more and heavier
vehicles than were originally anticipated. The same is true for rural road
maintenance whe-a after 15 years of building over 85,000 km of rural roads,
Mexico has paid too little attention to the maintenance of such roads.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on its
proposed 1987-1991 highway sector total expenditure program including
maintenance, The balance between construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance as shown in the Program is satisfactory, with a substantial
increase in the maintenance component (Table 3.3). Details of the highway
sector expenditure program for the period 1987 to 1991 are shown in the
Project File. In addition, it was agreed during negotiations that
consultations on the highway sector expenditure program would be held
annually to ensure that an appropriate balance between construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance is maintained, and that the Government's
detailed annual highway sector expenditure program will be acceptable to the
Bank. It was also agreed during negotiations that sufficient funds would be
made available to satisfactorily carry out required maintenance (para 2.24)
to acceptable standards (para 3.03).
D. Highway Maintenance
(i) Status and Needs of the Network
2.20      For the purposes of allocating maintenance resources, the federal
highway network is divided by DGCOP into three priority classes: the
priority basic network (17,000 km) generally with the highest traffic (over
5,000 vehicles per day (vpd)) connecting major cities; the basic network
(13,000 km) generally with 1,500-5,000 vpd; and the lower priority network
(15,000 km) with less than 1,500 vpd. On the lower priority network, SCT has
not carried out adequate routine maintenance or virtually any periodic
maintenance over the past several years. Many of these road sections have
asphaltic concrete pavements that are 15 to 30 years old, that were designed
and constructed to standards inadequate to properly support today's higher
axle loads (Annex 1) and are rapidly deteriorating. Similarly, the basic
network also has suffered, although to a lesser degree, from the same



- 11 -
neglect. Many of the pavements are substandard and are too weak to support
present day axle loads and traffic densities. The Priority Basic Network has
received adequate and timely routine maintenance and, to the extent that
funds have been available, periodic maintenance as well. Substandard and
weak pavements in this group, in some cases, have been strengthened or
reconstructed. Nevertheless, the preponderance of roads, even in the higher
priority category, have not received the periodic maintenance attention over
the last few years that their age, condition and traffic level would normally
dictate. On average, only about 3% per year have actually had either
periodic maintenance (overlay) or strengthening work carried out, far below
the amount needed to reduce the accumulated backlog or to satisfy current
requirements. Similarly, instead of the quadriennial sealing that should be
performed, only about 10% of these roads have been resealed each year. In
contrast, CyPF, with its relatively greater financial resources, has been
able to maintain its 953 km of toll roads in a very satisfactory manner.
2.21      Reeent inventories confirm the growing seriousness of the
situation. While only 6% of the network is classified as being in poor
condition, over 602 is classified as being in fair condition which indicates
a need for timely maintenance before a large portion of the network
deteriorates requiring more costly reconstruction (Table 2.9). A more
detailed review of the roads in fair and poor condition revealed that about
2,700 km require substantial strengthening beyond original design standards
in order to accomodate todayts axle loads and traffic. In addition, another
3,500 km represent the accumulated backlog of deferred periodic maintenance.
Furthermore, each year an additional 3,600 km will require overlays as part
of normal periodic maintenance. In 1986, however, DGCOP only carried out
about 1,000 km of overlay which would mean that the average kilometer of
federal paved highway would receive an overlay only once in a forty year
period.
2.22      The situation with reg&rd to bridges is very similar.  The FHN
includes about 4,500 structures over 6 m in length which are classified as
bridges. Of these, about 75% were built before 1950 %nd the design loads
prevailing at that time are no longer in keeping with current truck
loadings. Furthermore, poor design of details such as expansion joints and
bearings have contributed to the present deteriorated condition of the
bridges. Recent surveys indicate that about 950 of the bridges require
extensive periodic maintenance. In addition, another 450 bridges require
reconstruction, to provide strengthening, widening or improvement. Some of
this reconstruct4on, strengthening and widening works (about 100 bridges)
will be financed under the on-going Second Highway Sector Project (Loan
2428-ME), with the balance of 350 bridges reconstructed with financing from
the Government's own resources. Annex 2 provides additional details
concerning bridges on the federal highway network.
2.23      The SCT equipment fleet has also deteriorated during the last four
years as replacement budgets have been minimal and imports restricted. About
60% of SCT's 6,000 vehicles and heavy equipment units are over ten years old
and another 30X has an age of between four and ten years. The age of the
fleet coupled with a lack of spare parts have led to premature breakdowns and
low equipment availability. Some of tne shortfall has been made up in recent
years by leasing equipment from private contractors as a short term measure.
Further details relating to SCT's road maintenance equipment fleet are
provided in Annex 3.



- 12 -
(ii) Maintenance Budgets
2.24      The major factor In the deteriorating condition of the network has
been the lack of adequate maintenance budgets. While maintenance budgets
have steadily increased in real terms since 1982 (with the exception of 1986)
and have risen as a relative proportion of highway expenditures from 13% in
1981 to over 30% in 19B6 (Tables 2.8 and 2,10), it is clear that more
substantial increases will be required to eliminate the accumulated backlog
and meet normal anntal maintenance requirements. The maintenance outlay for
federal trunk roads in 1985 of US$3,500 equivalent per km should be increased
to an average US$5,000 equivalent per km over the next five years (Para
3.05). Similarly, rural road maintenance budgets should be raised from
US$250 equivalent per km to US$450 equivalent per km.
(iii) Maintenance Planning and Programing.
2.25      As a part of its annual maintenance planning and budgeting
exercise, DGCOP's maintenance resident engineers review and rate all the
federal roads in each of the areas under the responsibility of the Centros
SCT. m e list of each Centro's proposed maintenance work for the year,
prepared on the basis of this information by the maintenance residents, is
then reviewed by DGCOP's Programing and Evaluation Directorate which produces
a country-wide maintenance program based on priorities and budgetary
limitations. The authorized program is then sent back to the Centros for
implementation. Generally, the Centros SCT and the maintenance resident
engineers provide road inventory data in a satisfactory manner considering
the limitations of the rating system now in use (para 4.01). The Programing
and Evaluation Directorate however, needs substantial strengthening in order
to properly carry out its responsibilities. it presently has inadequate
qualified staff and also needs to upgrade its capabilities in terms of the
methodology used to determine priorities and the equipment available to it.
kiv)  Cost Recovery and Road User Charges.
2.26      To eliminate the backlog of deferred maintenance and meet normal
road maintenance requirements, substantial budgetary increases are needed
(para 3.05). With road construction and modernization budgets already cut to
a minimum, however, and budget resources restricted in the other subsectors,
there are limited opportunities for resource transfers within the sector or
subsector. Given the Government's need to reduce the public sector deficit,
then, the question arises as to whether road users are adequately covering
the costs of construction and maintenance of the network through various
road-related taxes and whether there are opportunities for increasing
revenues, minimizing the impact of the increase in maintenance budgets on the
fiscal deficit. SCT, in coordination with the B&nk, recently conducted a
study of road user charges 3/ which concluded that total revenues from all
road users are insufficient to cover total road construction and maintenance
needs. More importantly, the study concluded that trucks, in particular,
were not even covering the marginal road costs attributable to their use of
the highway network (all road rehabilitation costs and 70% of periodic
maintenance costs). If the cost of congestion on the network were added, the
deficits would be far greater.
3/ "Estudio Sobre Cargos a los Usiiarios del Sistema Carretero", SCT,
February 1985, and "Transport Pricing Study", World Bank, January 1986,



- 13 -
2.27      Based on the maintenance strategies and costs developed during the
preparation for this project, it is estimated that the Government should
spend about US$1,000 million equivalent per year to maintain the federal,
state and rural networks and to expand capacity to sustain present levels of
service in terms of congestion. Of this amount, about US$400 million
equivalent per year represents the marginal costs attributable to the passing
of vehicles over the network. Such marginal costs include all rehabilitation
costs but exclude all routine maintenance costs and 30% of periodic
maintenance costs both of which are attributable to the effects of time and
weather.
2.28      Present user tax revenues are derived from special automobile
purchase taxes, annual registration fees and tolls. Value added taxes on
transport items are excluded as are fuel taxes which are the normal source
for road-related revenues in most countries. Since 1982, fuel prices have
been raised considerably in real terms with diesel rising from US$0.35 per
liter in 1981 to US$0.153 per liter in 1987 (Table 2.11). With the decline
in the international price of oil and oil-related products, Mexico's domestic
price is now equivalent to its opportunity cost but does not provide an
adequate additional contribution for road infrastructure. Total tax revenues
are estimated at US$500 mlllion equivalent. Of the US$375 million of
marginal costs attributable to trucks, truck-related tax revenues amount to
only US$60 million equivalent, with the heavier trucks representing the
largest portion of the deficit (Table 2.12). The most important step in
reducing the deficit and raising federal road-related revenues is to raise
user taxes on trucks to cover at least the road damage (marginal) costs on
the trunk network attributable to them. While there are a series of possible
tax measures, the required increase would be equivalent to a US$0.03 per
liter increase in fuel prices. To be able to distribute the taxes more
equitably by vehicle weight, consideration should be given to raising the
annual registration tax progressively by gross vehicle weight. The impact on
total truck conts would be less than 3%. Some related steps have already
been taken by the Government, as detailed in para 3.24, but further action is
needed. At negotiations, the Government agreed that road user taxes on
trucks should be at least equal to wLe marginal costs attributable to the
road damage to the federal road network caused by those vehicles and has
provided a letter, satisfactory to the Bank, indicating the steps it intends
to take to accomplish this objective.
III. The Maintenance Improvement Program and the Project
A. Project Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01      Under the Second Highway Sector Project, flnancing has been mostly
directed at major reconstruction and modernization, improving some of the
more deteriorated roads and relieving the major congestion bottlenecks on the
trunk network. In addition, the Sector Project includes a component for
rural road periodic maintenance and rehabilitation in aa effort to obtain a
stronger Government commitment to better maintenance of rural roads. Through
semi-annual reviews, the Bank has monitored and discussed the overall



- 14 -
allocation of funds between maintenance anen construction. It was through
these reviews that the need for extending Bank technical and financial
support directly to trunk road maintenance became apparent. During the
Country Program Implementation Review held in July 1965, the Government
proposed that the Bank support its efforts to reduce the backlog of deferred
maintenance that had rapidly accumulated. A diagnostic review of the road
maintenance situation was carried out through the joint efforts of DGP, DGCOP
and Bank staff and a detailed Five-Year Maintenance Improvement Program was
prepared. While a portion of the funds under the Sector Project have been
redirected to finance an intensive road strengthening program covering
critically weak sections of the network (para 3.05) there are not sufficient
funds in the sector loan to support the broader periodic maintenance needs.
Government and Bank representatives agreed that a specific lending operation
directed at maintenance was appropriate and would help direct attention both
within SCT and the government financial agencies to the maintenance problem.
3.02      Bank loans in the highway subsector (Table 3.1), including the
ongoing Second Highway Sector Project, have focussed on Mexico's road
construction and modernization programs in an attempt to ensure the
application of appropriate technical and economic evaluation criteria and to
carry on a dialogue concerning general sector policies, While a portion of
the ongoing Second Highway Sector Project has been reoriented to include an
expanded road pavement and bridge strengthening program covering critically
weak sections of the federal highway network, there is a need for extending
the Bank's technical and financial support directly to road maintenance. The
proposed project would focus on overall maintenance and the institutional
improvements required as well as other deferred maintenance needs, and would
complement the ongoing sector project (para 2,11). The Project is consistent
with the Bank's country strategy by focussing on the rationalization of
public sector expenditures while ensuring that infrastructure is in a
satisfactory condition to support the economic recovery.
B. SCT's Five-Year Maintenance Improvement Program
3.03      With the establishment of highway maintenance improvement as a
rational priority, the Government has developed a comprehensive highway
maintenance improvement program to enhance its road maintenance planning,
administration and execution capabilities through a coordinated effort
directed at all aspects of maintenance operations. The program is based on
the development of a set of desirable (from a technical and economic
perspective) maintenance policies which would be gradually achieved over a
five-year period (1987-1991). It is focussed on the areas of particular
concern and weakness described in paras 2.20 to 2.25, taking into account the
available human, technical and financial resources of the Government, and is
directed specif'eally at the paved 41,800 km of the Federal Highway Network
for which SCT is responsible.
3.04      SCT's Five-Year Maintenance Improvement Program (1987-1991)
includes routine and periodic maintenance of federal paved roads and bridges;
acquisition of new road maintenance equipment and spare parts while retiring
overage and unusable equipment; construction, rehabilitation and improvement
of maintenance workshops including procurement of machinery, equipment and
tools; repair, rehabilitation, overhaul and reconstruction of existing
deadlined equipment including purchase of replacement parts and spare parts
for operational use; expansion and improvement of SCT's maintenance training
program; and technical assistance and consulting services for studies and



- 15 -
assistance in planning and programing maintenance operations. The
composition of the program is summarized in Table 3.2.
3.05      As shown in Table 3.3, SCT's overall maintenance budget for the
five-year period 1987 to 1991 is estimated to require expenditures totaling
US$1,310 million equivalent, including the proposed pavement and bridge
strengthening program and the amounts needed for rural road maintenance and
rehabilitation. Excluding the total budgetted amounts for rural road
maintenance and rehabilitation and for pavement and bridge strengthening, the
Maintenance Improvement Program requires about US$910 million equivalent over
five years or an average of US$180 million equivalent annually. This can be
compared with the maintenance budget in 1986 of US$93 million equivalent
(Table 3.3), This amount includes about US$20 million equivalent per year
for a five-year period which is needed to eliminate the accumulated backlog
of deferred periodic maintenance. The rural road maintenance and
rehabilitation work will require expenditures averaging US$40 million
equivalent per year, for a total of US$200 million. The pavement and bridge
strengthening program (Table 3.4) will need a total of US$200 million
equivalent over the five-year period. At negotiations, the Government
confirmed its agreement to the scope and composition of the program and
provided assurances that it will allocate the necessary budget resources for
the entire five-year Maintenance Improvement Program on a timely basis.
C. The Project and Its Components
(i) Project Objectives
3.06      The objectives of the proposed project are, primarily, to assist
the Government and SCT in improving their road maintenance capabilities and
operations on the federal network so that the present backlog of deferred
periodic maintenance can be reduced or eliminated and maintenance
requirements provided for in future on a timely basis. In addition, the
project would enhance the cost-effectiveness and help maximize the economic
benefits of road maintenance by improving maintenance planning and
management. Lastly, the project would promote the implementation of
appropriate cost recovery policies for roads such that taxes on heavy
vehicles cover at least the marginal road costs attributable to them.
(ii) Project Scope
3.07      The basis of the Project is the Government's Five-Year Maintenance
Improvement Program (1987-1991). Financing under the Project would be
provided for a portion of the Program (Table 3.3) including: (a) periodic
maintenance of federal roads and bridges carried out through contracts; (b)
provision of new, improved or expanded workshop facilities, including
required machinery, tools and spare parts; (c) procurement of new road
maintenance equipment; (d) implementation of SCT's equipment overhaul and
rehabilitation program; (e) training in equipment operation, repair and
maintenance and in road maintenance planning and operations; and (f)
consulting services for training and for studies and technical support to
assist in and upgrade maintenance planning, design and execution. Since the
needs greatly exceed the funds available, the size of the Program has been
determined based on the minimum level of budgetary resources required to
stabilize and improve the condition of the federal network. The Project
covers only a portion of the Program with the balance being funded by the
Government using its own resources (para 3.18).



- 16 -
(lii) Periodic Maintenance of Roads and Bridges
3.08      Roads.  Over the five year (1987-1991) period, 18,200 km of the
paved Federal Highway Network will be overlain with asphaltic concrete as
part of SCI's Maintenance Improvement Program (Tables 3.5 to 3.7). Of this
total, about 3,500 km represent the accumulated backlog of deferred periodic
maintenance. These roads, if not soon resurfaced, will be subject to further
rapid deterioration.  Another 3,000 to 3,500 km per year wiLll normally
require resurfacing. It is also necessary that the pavement surface be
sealed at intervals of four to six years, requiring treatment of about
7,500 km each year (of which about 5,000 km are overdue and represent
deferred works). Project financing will provide for 7,000 km (of the total
of 18,200 km) of periodic maintenance (overlay) and 9,000 km (of the total of
48,000 km) of chip sealing (surface treatment) of paved federal roads over
the five-year project period, all of which will be accomplished through
contracting (Table 3.2).
3.09      Bridges.  SCT's Maintenance Improvement Program includes about
950 bridges requiring periodic maintenance. Of this total, about 400
require major repairs and will be included for financing under the proposed
Project (para 3.18). The balance of approximately 550 bridges need minor
repairs and/or maintenance work which will be financed by the Government
using their own resources and which can be handled by the Centros during
routine maintenance operations. DGCOP's bridge monitoring and review system
will also be updated and strengthened to provide a permanent process of
bridge inspection and maintenance (para 3.17). Annex 2 provides details of
the proposed bridge repair and rehabilitation program.
(iv) Equipment Replacement, Rehabilitation and Acquisition
3.10      To carry out its maintenance responsibilities, SCT needs a fleet of
about 3,300 pieces of equipment. At this time, 60% of SCT's fleet of about
6,000 vehicles and heavy equipment units is older than ten years and another
30% is between four and ten years old. Under SCT's Maintenance Improvement
Program, 2,270 items of new vehicles and equipment will be acquired; 915
items of the existing fleet will be rehabilitated; and the best of the
remaining fleet will make up the balance. Over the period 1987-1991 about
3,000 overage, damaged or unrepairable vehicles will be written off and
scrapped (Table 3.2). The fleet should then have a reasonable age profile
much more in keeping with SCT's equipment maintenance capacity.
3.11      The Project will finance procurement of a portion of the new road
maintenance equipment and associated spare parts and implementation of all of
the equipment overhaul, rehabilitation and reconstruction work (915 units)
included in SCT's Maintenance Improvement Program. Annex 3 provides details
of the equipment procurement and rehabilitation programs.
(v) Workshops, Tools and Equipment
3.12      The Program will also provide new, rehabilitated, improved or
expanded central workshop facilities, in 31 Centros, including required
machinery, equipment, tools and spare parts, for repair and maintenance of
equipment used for maintenance of roads. In addition, 82 satellite
maintenance centers will be provided or improved. Further details and layout
plans are contained in the Project File. The Project will finance the civil
works involved and part of the workshop tools, equipment and spare parts
needed. Annex 3 provides details of the workshop program.



- 17 -
(vi)  Traiiing Program
3.13      DGCOP's training unit hts been operational for more than five years
and in 1986 p,:ovided training for about 1,400 managerial, technical,
equipment operators, mechanics and road maintenance personnel. However, its
training program has several significant deficiencies, especially in the
areas of heavy equipment operation and maintenance, on-the-job training of
road maintenance crews, up-grading the performance of field foremen and work
crew chiefs; bridge maintenance; dnd in road planning and programing. To
help DGCOP in correcting these deficiencies and to strengthen monitoring,
evaluation and feed-back in the training system, a significant training
component has been included in the proposed project.
3.14      With inputs from several of DGCOP's general residents and general
superintendents of maintenance of selected centro maintenance centers, the
DGCOP training unit has developed a revised training program to correct the
existing personnel deficiencies. This training program, to be implemented
under the project over a period of five years, would improve the performance
capabilities of about 30 general residents (engineers) for road maintenance
and 20 of their DGCOP central office counterparts, 30 general superintendents
for equipment and 30 of their shop superintendents and, through on-the-lob
training, an estimated 3,000 semi-skilled field work-crew members, 120 road
and bridge maintenance engineere, 300 road and bridge maintenance foremen,
1,200 maintenance mechanics and 4,500 heavy equipment operators.
3.15      As physical space for training in the existing centers is
acceptable, the Program includes provision for supplemental furniture and
office equipment for the central training unit and the eight training
centers, audio-visual equipment and training aids for the eight centers and a
more limited amount in the other 23 state maintenance centers to support
on-the-job training, specialized training equipment for the eight centers and
for the central training unit, the further development of the short-course
training modules and their implementation during the 1987-91 period,
including provisions for training of trainers in each of the state centers
who would be responsible for carrying out informal on-the-job training and a
small number of short study/observation trips abroad and in-country seminars
including some for training and evaluation for central training unit staff.
The training component of the Maintenance Improvement Program will be
included for financing under the Project.
3.16      DGCOP has been very successful in recent years in obtaining a
higher level of instructor ability and pertinent experience through
contracting nearly all training to consultant training firms and
organizations and it is intended to continue this practice. However, as an
institutional development measure the training capability of the DGCOP
training unit would be increased through the addition of a senior staff
member to monitor and evaluate training programs and to coordinate a
feed-back system for further improvement of training. In support of this,
resident road maintenance engineers and equipment maintenance superintendents
would receive instruction in training evaluation. In addition, the training
unit would convene periodic round table discussions to enable training staff
and the residencies to exchange views on maintenance-related matters and on
progress and the aptness of the training being given. During negotiations,
confirmation was obtained from the Government on the scope and composition of



- 18 -
the training program, including course content and use of consultants, along
the lines establlished during appraisal. Details of the training program are
shown in Annex 4.
(vii)  Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
3.17      As part of the Maintenance Improvement Program, SCT will carry out
a compreheusive road and bridge condition inventory using consultants to
augment DGCOP's staff where needed. The consultants will provide services
related to road roughness and deflection surveys, non-destructive testing of
bridge components, weigh-in-motion surveys and analysis and design of
maintenance interventions for roads and bridges. In addition, consultants
will be engaged to provide technical support to DGCOP's Programing and
Evaluation Directorate in improving maintenance planning and programing
systems, methods and execution. DGCOP's bridge moTtitoring and review system
would also be updated and strengthened to provide a permanent process of
bridge inspection and maintenance. The Project will include financing for
the consulting services and technical assistance included in the
Program. Annex 5 provides details of the services required along with
outline terms of reference. During negotiations, confirmation frem thp
Government was obtained concerning the scope and timing of consulting
services to be used, the terms of reference and the estimated cost.
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.18      The proposed project covers a portion of the civil works for
pavements and bridges (periodic maintenance); part of the new equipment to be
procured, including associated spare parts; rehabilitation of existing
equipment; workshop improvements; training and the provision of technical
support and consulting services. The estimated cost of the Project is
US$281.5 million equivalent with a foreign exchange cost of US$135 million.
The proposed Bank Loan, US$135 million, would finance the total foreign
exchange portion of the cost of selected items for Bank financing. Cost
estimates are based on prices as of May 1987, and include a 10% physical
contingency and about US$45 million equivalent for taxes and duties.
Detailed analysis has shown the foreign exchange content of the type of civil
works included in the Project to be about 39%, while, that for the equipment
rehabilitation program is estimated to be approximately 69%. Overall the
foreign exchange portion represents about 48% of the total cost of the
Project. The estimated cost of each project component, expressed in terms of
equivalent May 1987 US Dollars, and the estimated foreign exchange content
are shown in Table 3.8 and are summarized in the table below.



- 19 -
Project Component and Estimated Costs
-   Estimated Costs -     Foreign   Bank Parti-
Project Component                            (US$ Million Equivalent) Exchange   cipation
Local  Foreign   Total           (US$ Mllion)
Civil Works
1.   Periodic Maintenance Program for L,ads
on the Federal Highway Network             94.60   60.40   155l00    39      60X40
2.  Repair and Rehabilitation
Program for Existing Bridges
and Culverts on Federal Highway
Network                                    15.25    9.75    25.00    39       9.75
3.   Workshop Construction,
Rehabilitation, Inprovement and
Expansion Program including Workshop
Tools and Equipment and an Initial Stock
of Spare Parts for Scheduled Maintenance   3.75    2.25      6.00    39       2.25
Maintenance Equnpment
4.   Repair and Rehabilitation Program for
Existing Equipment                          2.50    5.50     8.00    69       r.50
5,   Procurement of New Road
Maintenance Equipment including
associated spare parts                      2.50   32.50    35.00    93      30.00
Training
6.  Training Program including
Technical Support for Training 1!           0.90    0.50     1.40    35       1.40
Consulting Services
7.   Consulting Services and
Technical Support                           1.70    0.80     2.50    33       2.50
Total Base Costs                     121.20  111.70   232.90    48    111.80
8.   Physical Contingencies                     12.10   11.20    23.30    48      11.20
Subtotal                             133.30  122.90   256.20    48    123.00
9.  Price Contingencies                         13.20   12.10    25.30    48      12.00
Total Project Cost                   146.50  135.00   281.50    48    135.00
-  as_                              -
1/ Does not include salaries of Government employees.
Note:   Inflation factors used to deternine price contingencies are: 3X for
1987, 1.0% for years 1988 through 1990, and 3.5% for years 1991 to
1995.



- 20 -
E. Economic Evaluation and Justification
3.19        The Federal Road Maintenance Improvement Program is well
justified economically with an estimated economic rate of return (ERR)
exceeding 40%. Annex 6 provides the details relating to the methodology used
and the results obtained. The program has been evaluated in two stages:
first, the impact of 27 alternative road nmaintenance policies on the traffic
related deterioration of 14 representative links of the network totalling 916
km wes tested in order to determine an optional road maintenance strategy;
and second, the results thus obtained were applied to the federal road
network and the budget necessary to implement the maintenance strategy was
derived. The first stage of the evaluation was carried out using the latest
version of the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III).
3.20        The representative links were selezted by SCT based upon a
detailed inventory of surface conditions on 2000 km of roads and supplemented
by a general inventory of the geometric and structural characteristics of the
network. The representative links typify the terrain, climate, traffic
structural and surface condition of the network. About 2,700 km of weak
pavements which will be strengthened under the ongoing Highway Sector Project
have been excluded from the analysis network.
3.21        The maintenance policies used in the analyses were
developed in collaboration with SCT's Directorate General of Maintenance and
reflect the maintenance operations in use in Mexico. mhe frequency of
application of these operations has been varied to reflect the various
intensities of the maintenance policies ranging from low to highly
intensive. The unit costs of the maintenance operations used are the higher
range of average costs applicable in Mexico (assuming contracting operations)
and are reasonable for the region. The traffic voldmes and their
compositions for each of the representative links were checked by SCT's
Directorate General of Planning and are based on the actual counts
supplemented by origin/destination data. The unit cost of vehicles, parts,
labor, lubricants and fuel were obtained by SCT's consultants through dealer
quotations. Ne value of time has been imputed to passengers.
3.22        Vor each representative link, the HDM III model was used to
simulate life-cycle costs based upon initial surface conditions (e.g.
roughness and area cracked, number of years since last periodic intervention
et al.) horizontal and vertical geometric characteristics, the road
maintenance policies in force and the volume and composition of traffic using
the link. Thus for each link, the maintenance policy alternative yielding
the least cost to society (minimum costs to the road authority and the users)
i.e., the highest net present value was identified. From the foregoing, a
matrix of recommended policies was derived. The recommended policies for the
different traffic volumes and initial road conditions would yield, under
typical conditions, a minimum ERR of over 40%. During project
implementation, the matrix of recommended maintenance policies will be
refined to take into consideration the results of field measurements.
3.23        For the second stage of the analysis, the recommende' road
maintenance strategy was generalized to the entire network (excluding the
roads with pavements too weak to support the existing traffic and axle



- 21 -
loading and in need of major strengthening). To carry out this task, the
road network was grouped into three classes of road conditions i.e. poor,
fair and good, according to the different levels of traffic based on a
condition inventory and information on traffic distribution. To obtain the
estimates of budgetary support for implementing the recommended maintenance
strategy, the physical quantities of work (i.e. annual quantities of periodic
(overlays and seals) and routine maintenance) were derived based on the
assumption that there will be no growth of the network during the execution
of the five year maintenance program and that despite the application of the
maintenance strategy, every year, about 5% of the roads classified-as "good"
and "fair" will revert to the next lower classification and all the overl*'yed
roads will pass up to the "good" classification. The physical quantities
were then converted into costs through the application of unit costs of
maintenance operations. The final stage of the analysis relates to the
identification and evaluation of each specific group of periodic maintenance
(paving) works for inclusion, each year, in the annual program. Economic
evaluation for a tentative list of road pavlng works carrled out by SCT, was
analyzed during appraisal for cost and trafflc variations, and found
satisfactory. The proposed works were found to yield economic rates ot
return over 40%. During negotiations, a final list yielding economic returns
above 40% was submitted for Bank review and also found acceptable.
Subsequent groups of road paving works would he also identified and evaluated
by SCT. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
periodic maintenance works for roads and bridges to be included in the
pluriannual program would he selected In the context of a balanced investment
strategy, and in no case would yield an ERR below 12X% estimated in
accordance with economic crlteria satisfactory to the Bank. Based on the
foregoing, the proposed budgetary requirements were confirmed as was the
detailed program for the first year (Annex 6). Procedures for annual
updating of the maintenance program have been agreed (para 4.02). The
methodology to be followed for the economic evaluation of specific bridge
works to be included in the maintenance program is described in Annex 6.
F. Risk Assessment
3.24      There are three main risks with regard to the Project.  The first
concerns the possible failure by the Government to allocate sufficient
budgetary funds on a timely basis. However, this risk is mitigated by the
Government's agreement to hold annual consultations on road investments and
to provide the necessary budgetary resources to carry out the Federal Road
Maintenance Improvement Program. The second, concerning the Road User Cost
Recovery Scheme, involves the possibility that future progress on this policy
issue may face political resistance, particularly regarding increases in
taxes to fully recover the cost of road damage attributable to trucks and
other heavy vehicles. However, the Government has taken a series of measures
to increase taxes on trucks in the 1987 tax law, including an initial 130%
increase in road tolls for trucks which are to he further raised to bring the
total increase to 260% in 1987, as well as substantial increases in annual
truck permit taxes. Also, the price of diesel fuel has been increased by
130% during the past year to bring it in line with border prices. In light
of the foregoing, and the Government's agreement to implement the Road User
Cost Recovery Scheme and raise user taxes on trucks and other heavy vehicles
to cover at least the related marginal costs attributable to them, this risk
is also acceptable. Lastly, there is the risk that the institutional
strengthening aspects will not be given the necessary priority. Project
preparation has proceeded in close collaboration with Government authorities
in order to ensure commitment to oblectives and minimiz2 these risks.



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Subproject Selection, Preparation and Evaluation
4.01      The first year road and bridge periodic maintenance program was
developed by applying SCT's present rating procedures (Annex 6) and field
reviews. This provided a priority list of works to be carried out in 1987
based on need and condition with priority being given to the most heavily
"trafficked" roads. The economic feasibility of typical maintenance works on
such roads was confirmed using HDM III. SCT then reviewed the program and
updated data concerning traffic and road conditions. During negotiations the
list indicating the particular road sections to be treated during the first
year of the project's execution was confirmed. The details of the first year
program are in the Project File.
4.Ok      On an annual basis during the course of project execution, SCT,
through DGCOP, will update its inventory of roads and bridges on the federal
highway network and determine current traffic levels and number of rating
points. Using this information, gathered on the basis of a modified highway
rating system agreed with the Bank (Annex 5), a proposed periodic maintenance
program for roads and bridges will be established for that year and provided
to the Bank for review (Annex 8). Tentative programs, using presently
available inventory data, traffic levels and probable deterioration rates,
have been established (Tables 3.5 to 3.7) but will need to be confirmed on
the basis of more detailed, current field inspection and testing (Annex 5).
At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government concerning the
annual review by the Bank of the proposed maintenance program and on the
procedures and methodologies to be applied by the Government in its
preparation.
4.03     On the basis of a survey of all of SCT's equipment fleet with the
data gathered, including condition, entered into a computerized data base,
the status, condition, availability, utility and age profile of the
maintenance equipment fleet and of the maintenance equipment workshops and
equipment yards was determined. Using the program of routine and periodic
maintenance of federal highways and bridges determined in the manner given
above, the equipment and workshop needs for road and bridge maintenance for
the federal highway netwcrk, with especial focus on SCT's five-year
maintenance program, was established. This exercise resulted in the
production of a five-year equipment acquisition program to be carried out in
conjunction with an equipment retirement, replacement and scrapping program
(Annex 3). Similarly, the survey referred to above resulted in the
determination of needed spare and replacement parts for scheduled maintenance
and an equipment rehabilitation and repair program to be carried out over a
five-year period to return presently broken down and sidelined equipment to
usefulness where economically justified (Annex 3). In addition, a program
for building new workshops where needed and for expanding, improving or
rehabilitating existing workshops was established. The cost of needed
machinery, tools and spare parts for these maintenance workshops was also
established. During negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the
Government on all procurement items, on the workshop construction and
improvement program and on the equipment scrapping program.



- 23 -
B.   Project Execution
4.04      BANOBRAS will be the Borrower and will relend the loan proceeds to
the Government (for SCT) under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan
with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk. It will he a
condition of effectiveiese that the Borrower and the Guarantor enter into
contractual arrangemsnts satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer of loan
funds. SCT, through DGCOP, will be responsible for the implementation of the
project. During negotiations, agreement was reached with SCT (and DGCOP) on
an implementation plan and schedule for project execution (Annex 7). Within
DGCOP, at headquarters, the Directorate for Programing and Evaluation will be
responsible for the planning, execution, monitoring and reporting of project
activities, coordinating project implementation functions of the other
directorates at headquarters and of the Centros in the various states. The
Centros will carry out the authorized maintenance activities for roads and
bridges included in the federal highway network, including supervision of
work performed by contractors, and will provide appropriate inventory,
progress and other data as needed to the central office.
4.05      The Centros will also implement the equipment scrapping,
rehabilitation and repair program as well as the maintenance workshop
rehabilitation and improvement program, both in coordination and under the
direction of the Equipment Directorate at headquarters. The Equipment
Directorate will handle the procurement of new maintenance equipment, spare
parts,tools and machinery as well as the design, bid and award process for
new workshops to be constructed by contractors.
4.06      DGCOP's Training Unit, which reports directly to the Director
General of DGCOP (Chart 2) will be responsible for carrying out the
maintenance training program, including the engagement of consultants to
provide technical assistance or teaching in connection with the training
program. The Training Unit will operate in close coordination with the
Programing and Evaluation Directorate. Other consulting services will be the
responsibility of the Directorate for Programing and Evaluation which will
s,lect, engage, supervise and monitor the consultants providing technical
assistance or other consultancy services in connection with the road and
bridge maintenance programs, the rating and evaluation systems or field
investigations and studies having to do with the establishment or
verification of the proposed programs (Annex 5).
C. Project Monitoring
4e07      The Project would be supervised and monitored by the Bank through
the normal supervision mechanism, and through provision by SCT of quarterly
reports to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, on all phases of
the project. These reports would be produced by DGCOP's Directorate of
Programing and Evaluation using data and contributions from each of the
directorates or centroa carrying out the work of the project. In addition,
an annual consultation between the Bank and SCT would take place during
November of each year to review the various proposed programs for the coming
project implementation year, to assess the status of the project and of SCT's
maintenance operations using the agreed targets and monitoring indicators
established under the project and to discuss and resolve outstanding issues



- 24 -
and implementation problems. SCT will, in addition, provide, within six
months of the Closing Date of the Loan, a Project Completion Report. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government that SCT will
provide adequate and timely data and information to the Bank for project
monitoring purposes. Annex 8 provides details concerning project execution
and monitoring.
4,08      In order to maintain close control of rroject execution activities,
set goals to attain and correct deficiencies or solve problems before
difficulties become unmanageable, SCT will continuously monitor appropriate
performance indicators including physical and operational targets. Table 3.2
gives a summary of the Program's physical targets. The operational targets
relate to the quality and efficiency of SCT's maintenance operations and will
include among others: (a) average number of hours that equipment is
utilized; (b) percent of fleet available for use; (c) percent of fleet
actually utilized; (d) equipment downtime; (e) number of potholes patched per
day per work unit; and (f) number of kilometers overlain or sealed per day
per work unit. SCT will provide information concerning these performance
indicators to the Bank on an annual basis during the joint review of project
progress that will take place in November of each year. During negotiations,
the agreement of the Government was obtained regarding this process along
with confirmation of the specific physical and operational targets to be
achieved. Annex 8 provides further details concerning the performance
indicators to be used and the project monitoring arrangements to be followed.
E. Procurement and Consultant Services
4.09      Precurement under the project will be carried out as shown in the
table below:



- 25 -
Procuremenj Method (US$ Million)l/
Project Element                  ICB       LCB      Other    Total
Civil Works
Periodic Maintenance Program for
Roads on the Federal Highway Network    -         187,4      -        187.4
(72.5)              (72.5)
Repair and Rehabilitation Program for
Existing Bridges and Culverts
on Federal Highway Network                -        30.2      -         30.2
(11,7)              (11.7)
Workshop Construction, Rehabilitation,
Improvement and Eypansion Program
including Workshop Tools and
Equipment and an Initial Stock of
Spare Parts for Scheduled MaIntena-ace   -          6.7      0,5 2/    7.2
(4.2)    (0.3)      (4,5)
Equipment
Rehabilitation and Repair of
Existing Equipment                                9.7      -          9.7
(6.6)               (6.6)
Procurement of New Road
Maintenance Equipment including
associated Spare Parts                   42.3       -        -         42.3
(35.0)                       (35.0)
Training and Consulting Services
Training                                            -        1.7        1.7
(1.7)     (1.7)
Consulting Services                                 -        3.0        3e0
(3.0)     (3.0)
Totals3|                          42.3    234,0       5.2     281,5
(35.0)   (95.0)    (5.0)   (135.0)
1/ Amounts in parentheses show the allocations from the proceeds of the
Loan.
2/  International Shopping and Off-the -Shelf Local Purchase.
3/ See Table 3.8.



- 26 -
4.10      Civil Works.  Civil works having an estimated total value of
approximately US$217.6 million equivalent for periodic maintenance of roads
and bridges forming part of the Federal Highway Network will be contracted
out by SCT through DGCOP. Periodic maintenance works for roads paved with
asphalt concrete that are to be carried out by contract include placement of
seal coat (sealing) in certain cases and adding a layer of asphaltic concrete
hot mix (overlaying) in other cases, both on the surface of an existing
asphaltic concrete pavement. Where necessary, the work will also include use
of appropriate geotextiles ard admixtures; patching the existing pavement in
advance of the overlay or seal coat; and placement of a levelling course to
bring the pavement surface to the correct grade, elevation and cross-slope,
also in advance of the main work. Contracts to carry out this work will
generally vary in length of road to be treated from about 15 kms to 60 kms,
with costs varying from about US$250,000 to US$1.0 million equivalent. While
it will be possible for contractors to bid on more than one of these contract
packages at a time, nevertheless, the small size, geographical dispersion and
isolation in some cases is expected to discourage foreign contractors from
bidding.
4.11      Similarly, contracts will be let for repair and rehabilitation of
bridges on the federal highway network. These contracts will cover from one
to five bridges on the average, and will cost about US$25,000 to US$250,000
equivalent each. Except for very few requiring special expertise not
available in Mexico, the same comments apply to bridges as were made above
regarding roads. In addition, contracts for construction of new workshops
and for rehabilitation and improvement or expansion of existing workshops
costing about US$ 25,000. to US$ 100,000. each will be let for a total of
US$3.3 million equivalent. Again, it is extremely unlikely that foreign
contractors would be interested in these very small contracts, particularly
in view of their scattered nature.
4.12      The domestic construction industry is quite active and there are
many competent and experienced construction firms located throughout the
country who would be prepared to bid on both large and small construction
contracts. Many of these firms either have or are willing to acquire the
appropriate equipment to carry out the type of work contemplated under the
Project and there are a sufficient number of firms experienced in this type
of work. Contracts for civil works, for the reasons given above, will
therefore be let on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), except that
any foreign contractor who wishes to do so may participate on an equal basis
with the domestic contractors. Local competitive bidding procedures have
been reviewed and, except where indicated below, have been found to be
satisfactory. There should be no difficulty in achieving mearingful
competition.
4e13      Procurement practices, relating to contracting of civil works,
which need to be modified in order to conform to Bank policies involve the
registration process (prequalification); the time periods allowed during the
procurement process for the various steps and functions to be carried out;
the evaluation and award process and the budgetary process. Further details
concerning the recommended procurement process are given in Annex 8.
Agreement was obtained from the Government during negotiations that the
procurement process used will be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 27 -
4.14      New Equipment.  Under the Project, road maintenance equipment
(including spare parts) valued at approximately US$42.3 million equivalent
will be procured. This equipment will be procured using International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. A margin of preference will be granted to domestic
manufacturers amounting to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of foreign goods or
the amount of customs duties or other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay, whichever is lower. During negotiations, the
Government's confirmation was obtained that all new equipment and spare parts
to be purchased with financing under the proposed Project will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
4.15      Existing Equipment.  Under the Project, about US$9.7 million
equivalent will be spent to rehabilitate, rebuild, and repair equipment
presently in the fleet which is idle or unusable due to need for repairs or
rehabilitation. This work will be performed by domestic industry or local
commercial machine shops on a contract basis using LCB. It is very unlikely
that foreign firms would be interested in this work due to its small size,
except in special cases where particular expertise or special machinery is
needed to carry out the required work but is not available in the country.
In such cases, shopping procedures, obtaining at least three quotations and
following the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement, will be used. Where, as
described above, LCB procedures are used, the requirements given above for
civil works (para 4.12) will apply equally to these contracts. Training
equipment, and workshop machinery and tools will also be procured under the
Project. Where available in Mexico, these items will be purchased using LCB
as described above except that, where procurement packages do not exceed US$
25,000 in value, purchases locally off-the-shelf will be permitted on the
basis of at least three price quotations subject to an aggregate total not to
exceed US$750,000 equivalent. Where not available domestically, they will be
procured using International Shopping in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement. During negotiations, agreement with the
Government was reached that the methods and procedures to be followed in
carrying out these types of procurement will be satisfactory to the Bank.
4.16      Consulting Services.   Consulting services for technical
assistance, for studies and for training as well as for field investigations,
and fcr design of pavement and bridge repairs and rehabilitation, amounting
ti approximately US$4.5 million equivalent will be obtained in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants. The local domestic
consulting industry is very active, qualified and experienced and will be
able to satisfactorily carry out the work required with the possible
exception of certain specific expertise that may not be easily available
within the country. While the consultant selection process will be open to
foreign firms, it is likely that foreign experts, where needed, would be
engaged as individuals or through joint ventures with local firms to provide
the expertise that may not be available domestically. The consultant's terms
of reference, their suitability for the specific assignment and the draft
contract for all these consultants will he reviewed and approved by the Bank
before their appointment. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on outline terms of reference (Annex 5) for these consulting
assignments and on the procedures to be followed, as delineated above, in
making selections, appointments and awards.



- 28 -
4.17      Prior Review.  The Bank will review, before any bidding for civil
works or goods takes place, the draft standard model advertisement, tender
documents and contracts (including a description of the advertising, bid,
evaluation and award procedures to be followed) prepared by the Government
for use under the Project. Where necessary, the documents will he modified
before use so that they will be satisfactory to the Bank. The approved
documents will then be used for tenders let and awards made under the Project
except that any modifications made to them will be subject to prior approval
of the Bank. All contracts for goods costing the equivalent of US$500,000 or
more will nevertheless be subject to the Bank's full prior review of tender
documentation, bid evaluation and award. All contracts for civil workF
costing the equivalent of US$500,000 or more and all contracts for goods
costing the equivalent of US$250,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's
prior review of bidding documents but post review of awards. The review
would cover a minimum of 75% of the total estimated value of all goods and
works contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to post review on
a randc.a, sampling basis after contracts have been signed. Contractual
arrangements with consultants will be subject to the Bank's prior review, as
delineated above (para 4.16), regardless of the amounts involved.
E.   Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
4.18      Disbursements from the Loan Account would be made on the basis of
39% of total expenditures for civil works; 100% of foreign currency
expenditures for purchases of new equipment and associated spare parts and
for spare and replacement parts or other goods purchased from foreign
sources; 100% of ex-factory costs for equipment, spare parts or other goods
that are domestically manufactured, or 65% of total expenditures for locally
procured equipment, machinery, tools, spare parts or for equipment
rehabilitation or repair work performed locally through contract; 100% of
total costs for technical assistance and other consulting services; and 100%
of total costs for training and associated expenditures. Overall, the Bank
would finance an estimated 48% of total project costs, equal to the total
foreign exchange portion of the Project cost. The allocation of loan
proceeds for the various disbursement categories is given in Table 4.1.
Retroactive financing will be provided for expenditures incurred after
November 15, 1986 but before the date of loan signature, up to a maximum of
US$13.5 million. All disbursements will be net of taxes and duties. During
negotiations, agreemeitt was reached with the Government on the disbursement
percentages as delineated above, for all of the project's components.
4,19      In order to reduce the time interval during which the Government
would be financing the Bank's share of project costs with its own funds, a
Special Account will be set up in the Banco de Mexico under the control of
BANOBRAS which could be drawn against on the basis of project expenditures
for previously approved subprojects and/or contracts and which will be
replenished from time to time by the Bank at the request of the Borrower as
needed for project purposes. These replenishments will be made on the basis
of documentation justifying the withdrawals previously made but will not
exceed US$ 10 million at any given time. Disbursements, and withdrawals from
the Special Account, will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
for civil works, for costs incurred relating to the equipment rehabilitation
program and for training costs. Disbursements relating to the new equipment
purchase program and for consulting services will be based on the Bank's
usual documentation requirements. SCT has adequate accounting and auditing
procedures and control to permit disbursements to be made on the basis of



- 29 -
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). For this Project, such disbursements may be
made, using SOE's, for individual expenditures not exceeding US$150,000.
Supporting documentation would be retained by SCT, would be subJect to
auditing under agreed procedures and would be available for inspection by
Bank staff during project supervision missions.
4.20      Standard disbursement profiles prepared  by the Bank for the LAC
region and, in particular, for Mexico indicate that a seven-year period is
required to obtain full disbursement for this type of project and the
implementation period has accordingly been estimated to be seven years
(Table 4.2). Given its design, it is, however, not unlikely that this
project could be implemented at a faster rate and be completed in five
and one-half years. Under such a scenario, the price contingencies shown in
Table 3.8, Summary of Estimated Costs, would be reduced, causing a reduction
in the overall cost of the project from US$281.5 million equivalent to US$275
million equivalent, producing a related reduction in the amount of financing
needed from US$135 million to US$132 million.
4.21      Agreement was reached during negotiations that annual audits of the
Special Account and the SCT project accounts will be carried out in
accordance with generally acceptable auditing standards and procedures by
independent and qualified auditors. Audit reports, in a format satisfactory
to the Bank, for each financial year will be furnished to the Bank within
six months of the close of the audited period.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with BANOBRAS and the
Government on the following:
(a)  annual consultations to be held on the highway sector expenditure
program to ensure an appropriate balance between construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance; the annual program to be
satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.19);
(b)  increase road user taxes on trucks to cover at least the marginal
costs of road damage attributable to them (para 2.28);
(c)  scope and composition of the Federal Road Maintenance Improvement
Program (para 3.05);
(d)  provision of necessary budgetary resources to carry out the
Maintenance Improvement Program (para 3.05);
(e)  scope and composition of the training program (para 3,16);
(f)  scope and timing of consulting services, terms of reference and
estimated cost (para 3.17);
(g)  works to be included in the first year program of periodic
maintenance for roads (para 4.01);



- 30 -
(h)  annual review of Maintenance Improvement Program for federal roads
and bridges and of procedures and methodologies to be applied in
its preparation (para 4.02);
(i) all procurement items, workshop construction and improvement
program and the equipment scrapping program (para 4.03); and
(j)  physical and operational targets to be achieved (para 4.08).
5.02      Agreement was also reached on:
(a)  an implementation plan and schedule for project execution (para
4.04);
(b)  project reporting requirements (para 4.07);
(c)  procurement procedures and documentation to be applied for civil
works, goods and services (paras 4,13-4,17);
(d)  amount of retroactive financing (para 4.18); and
(e)  audit procedures and reporting (para 4.21).
5.03      It will be a condition of effectiveness that the Borrower and the
Guarantor enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
the transfer of loan funds (para 4,04).
5.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$135 million, with a term of
15 years, including a grace period of three years.
May 20, 1987



- 31 -
TAKE 2e1
Indicatois of Highmt  Duiu8d 1970-1985
AversE Aual Ilease ()
1970     1975       1980       1985       1970-1975     1975-1980  1980-1985
PopgatimQ (thu8mands)         48,225    57,537     67,406     78,500        3.6          3.2         3.1
UIP (millions of 1970 pesos) 444,271   609,976    841,855   911,500         6.5          6.7         1.6
Vebicles In CIrclaticn
(thusamds)                    1,792     3,340      5,828      6,932       13.3         11.8        3.5
Automobiles (th   I8usd)       1,234    2,401       4,255      4,921       14.2         12.1         3.0
Trucks (tidusads)                525       888      1,489      1,917       11.1         10.9         5.2
aiea  (thnisands)                 33        51         84         94        9.1         10.5        2.3
Geine Oaswptim
by Road Vddcles
(ud.Uluio liters)            7,856   10,865    18,316    25,217           6.7         11.0        6.6
Diese 0MMU1ptilon
by Road Vehicles
(million liters)             3,599     5,499      8,215     12,922        8.8          8.4        9.5
Pasew Cwrs/
l000 Irmbitants                 26        42         63        63        10.1          8.4        0
Source: AMociiam M:dcna de la Ihiustria Ahtatriz, "La Iinistria httriz de MdoD e  Clfras", SCr, SPP
Nbaeiber 1986



- 32 -
TABLE 2.2
MEXI00
HIGWAY MANTENANCE PRDJ=
Trport InvesiLt 
(millions of 1986 Mef$)
Transport   1977    1978       1979      1980        1981      1982    1983   1984    1985    1986
-*>de                                                                                         (est.)
HIghxays   265,300  278,400  304,600  340,100   516,700 370,400 334,000 298,200 270,100  177,300
Railwys    125,500  109,700   178,100  243,400   299,500 258,100  188,300  192,100  193,400  127,100
Aviation     19,500    20,300   21,700   23,000   38,200   11,600  133,400   29,000  103,200  67,100
Ports        15,700    14,700    31,100    %,900   168,9OO  143,100  60,800  64,600  63,200  45,200
Totals   426,000  423,100  535,500  763,400 1,023,300  783,200  716,500 583,900  629,900 386,700
1/ Me.$570: US$1.0
Source: Bank staff, SCT and SPP
Navember 1986.



- 33 -
TABLE 2.3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Prior Transport Lending
Bank                                        Amount    Date       Status
Loan No     Project Name                 (US$ million) (FY)       (FY)
103-ME      First Railway Project to
Ferrocarril del Pacifico      61.0       1954     Completed 1959
268-ME      First Highway Project             25.0       1961     Completed 1968
317-ME      First Toll Road Project           30.5       1962     Completed 1967
354-ME      Second Highway Project            40.0       1964     Completed 1972
401-ME      Second Toll Road Project          32.0       1965     Completed 1970
528-ME      Third Highway Project             27.5       1968     Completed 1973
695-ME      Fourth Highway Project            21.8       1970     Completed 1977
820-ME      First Port Project                20.0       1972     Completed 1977
825-ME      Second Railway Project (N de M) 75.0         1972     Completed 1977
968-ME      Seventh Highway Project           90.0       1974     Completed 1982
1022-ME     Airport Development Project       25.0       1974     Completed 1982
1232-ME     Third Railway Project (N de M) 100.0         1976     Completed 1983
1671-ME     First Highway Sector Project   120.0         1979     Completed 1984
1929-ME     Fourth Railway Project (N de M)150.0         1981     Completed 1986
1964-ME     Port Development Prep.Project    4.51/    1981        Completed 1986
2428-ME     Second Highway Sector Project  200.0         1984     Est.Comp. 1988
2450-ME     Lazaro Cardenas Ind.Port Pr.    76.3         1984     Est.Comp. 1990
2525-ME     Chiapas Rural Roads Project       22.0       1985     Est.Comp. 1991
2575-ME     Railway Sector Project           300.0      1985      Est.Comp. 1992
1/ After cancellations.
Source: Bank staff
November 1986



- 34 -
TABLE 2.4b
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MA.INTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Traffic on Selected Toll Roads
(Thousands of Vehicles/Day) 1/
Average
Annual
Rate of
Increase (M)
Road Section                         1971    1975    1977    1980    1981   1985   (1975-1985)
Mexico-Cuernavaca                    10.4    14.6    15.8    19.5    21.5   19.3         3.2
Cuernavaca-Amacuzac                   4.4     6.2     6.5      8.7     9.7    8.1        3.0
Amacuzac-Iguala                       2.4     3.5      3.9     5.0     5.6    5.1        4.5
Mexico-Queretaro                      9.7    15.4      6,3    23.5    27.3   41.0       16.6
Queretaro-Celaya                      5.1     7.1      7.3    10.0    11.7    9.4        3.2
Mexico-Puebla                        13.5    19.1    20.1    28.4    32.7   46.8        14.5
Mexico-Teotihuacan                   15.9    22,3    27.0    42.0    47.2   52.7        13.6
La Pera-Cuautla                       2.6     4.5      4.1     6.2     7.7    8.6        2.7
Puebla-Orizaba                        3.5     6.8      6.7    11.9    13.7   14.9       11.9
Tijuana-Ensenada                      3.3     4.5      4.5     5.2     6.9   16.5       26.7
Apaseo-Irapuato                       3.2     4.4      3.7     7.0     8.3    7.3        6.6
Orizaba-Cordoba                       4e9     7.4      8,3    12.2    13.8   12.0        6.2
Guadalajara-Zapatlanejo               3.5     5.7      6.3     7.3     8.6    9.2        6.1
Compostela-Chapalilla                 -       0.6     0.7      1.0     102    1.3       11.7
Notes: 1.  See Map IBRD 20343 for the location of these road connections.
2. For additional representative traffic intensities, see Annex 6,
Table 2.
1/ Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT).
Source: Caiinos y Puentes Federales
November 1986



HIGY MWD E    PRB
Development of the Bud Network (lb)
1952     1960     1970     1975     1980      1981     1982     1984     1985     1986
Federal Roads        13,033   23,828   29,358   38,292   42,521   43,408   43,661   44,612   44,359   44,700
Earth                 479      974      620      901       757      961      955    1,096      360       340
Gravel              1,517    2,623    1,310    1,590    2,063    1,971    1,851    2,151    2,499    2,560
Paved - 2 lanes    11,037   20,231   27,299   35,427   39,153   39,852   40,184   40,352   39,530   39,780
Paved - 4+- lanes      -         -      129      374       548      624      671    1,013    1,970    2,020
Ib31 Roads I/           113      290      868    1,028      932       932      932      953      953      953
Paved - 2 lanes        52      229      496      552       480      480      480      458      458       458
Paved - 4+ lanes       61       61      472      476       452      452      452      495      495       495
State Roads          10,830   15,137   29,984   37,102   49,302   50,741   51,772   55,420   56,295   56,988
Earth               1,560    1,756    2,986    2,967    7,831    8,350    7,508    5,874    2,376    2,150
Gravel              4,388    7,325   15,091   15,437   17,176   16,851   16,846   21,127   23,487   23,937
Paved               4,882    6,056   11,907   18,698   24,295   25,540   27,418   28,419   30,432   30,901
local Roads           3,356    2,787    7,530   13,489    3,194    1,951    1,304        2/        2/       2/
Earth                 591    1,130    2,544    3,175       787      513      354        -        -
Gravel              2,619    1,235    3,353    6,378    1,050       612      559        -        -        -
Paved                 146      402    1,633    3,936    1,357       826      391        -        -        -
Rural Poads              -        -    2,160   64-777   83,268   84,709   85,783   90,558   91,250   93,075
Earth                  -         -      429   15,443   15,360   14,777   11,908    9,116       780    1,250
Gravel                 -         -    1,70B   49,310   67,273   69,294   73,237   80,578   89,398   90,625
Paved                  -         -       23       24       635      638      638      894    1,072    1,200
Earth Tracks            NA    2,850    1,520   22,486   33,409   31,487   30,250   29,430   31,398   29,800
TOUAL                27,332   44,892   71,520  186,218  212,626  213,238  213,702  221,003  224,255  225,516
Tracks                 NA    2,850    1,520   31,530   33,409   31,497   30,250   29,430   31,398   29,800
Earth               2,630    3,860    6,579   22,486   24,735   24,601   20,725   16,086    3,516    -,740
Gravel              8,524   11,203   21,462   72,715   87,562   89,728   92,493  103,856  115,384  117,122
Paved - 2 lanes    16,117   26,918   41,358   58,637   65,920   67,336   69,111   70,123   71,492   72,339
Paved - 44- lanres     61       61      601      850    1,000    1,076    1,123    1,508    2,465    2,515
1/ Also ccnsdered part of the overall federal highiqy system.
2/ Included in totals for state roads.
Souce: SCr



- 36 -
3NaD                                            TAWIE 2.6
Federal Iliglus Netwok
Ia1p Citeria e-d &tamards
clas                        E       D          C            B           A2           A              MS
less than
100   100-500   500-1500    1500-3000   3000-5000    5000-20000       5000-2D000
It_n                     AADI1/  AAUT         AADT        AAMT AAD                  AMr            A0Y2/
!~~   2?~  (KP"
Fiat terrain              50-70   50-70      70-100      80-100       90-110       90-110         90-110
Rflrxg terrain            40-60   40-60      50-80        60-90       70-110       70-110         70-110
Mbxntainous terrain       30-40   30-40      40-60        50-70       60-80        60-80          60-80
dius (O
Flat terrain              70-150  70-150    150-350      210-420     270-420      270-420        270-420
RMIlhrg terrain           40-105  40-105    70-210       105-270     150-350      150-350        150-350
Mbuntainous terrain       20-40   20-40      40-105       70-150     105-210      105-210        105-210
hdingn Grade (%)
Fiat terrain               7.0     6.0        5.0          4.0         4.0          4.0            4.0
itllig terrain            10.0     9.0        7.0         6.0          5.0          5.0            5.0
ltimtainous terrain       13.0    12.0        8.0          7.0         6.0          6.0            6.0
.eM Stamlards
Roaiwy Width (M9           4.0     6.0        7.0         9.0         12.0         22.0          2 x 11.0
Paveerit Wldth (to         4.0     6.0        6.0          7.0         7.0        2x 7.0         2x 7.0
Seulder Width (M           -        -         0.5          1.0         2.5          3.0            3.0
Saperelevatlw (WM                                         0.10 1M.
Qw@-slope (X)               3       3          2           2            2            2               2
WIdth of MWin (l           -        -          -           -            -           1.0            8.0
Mni       Sigt Distance (O
Flat terrain              55-95   55-95      95-155      115-175     135-175      135-175        135-175
Roblirg terrain          40-75   40-75       55-115      75-135       95-155       95-155         95-155
Mxmtainxus terrain        30-40   30-40      40-75        55-95       75-115       75-115         75-115
Flat terrain               -    255-315   315-450        380-485     405-495      405-495        405-495
blUlig terrain             -     100-270   225-380       270-405     315-450      315-450        315-450
?buntainos terrain         -     135-100    180-270      225-315     270-380      270-380        270-380
-gDign                                                    HS20 (AA&MLD)3/
1/ AADT - Amrual Average Daily Traffic.
2 Separated Roadways.
3  Amrican Association of State Hghway and Transportation Officials.
Nbte: Rauges shown are from "Minima" to "Desirable".
Swrce: scr
Nbvember 1986



- 37 -
HigtS fllmtn1    Pre
Dietributlan of NeiaSeae  Psr_mel b  Cat"e
--4UPERV I SU            SORSO PERATORS--    -LASBOERE
Relds t  md       Omnrei                                peretn/  Mm  Eip.                     Sesio    Ant.  aOprb.
Centre                  squrlittcsdnt      Feorlm"       Porcn      Drivers   fcb lS    CoMtrs4             Lar.  bworo   11  E pinat    Tobls
LlASCLIr                      3                6           12           27         12           25             67         3                I            15
OAM  CIFMIA  MRE             12                it          43          135         60           40            Is         II               9             #11
MA  aIFRIA   SU3 I               5                          0           SD         22           Sl             40        a                14            I16
C    E                       10 to            26           13           s0         17           21            J01        10               10            45
aWILA                        14               26           a.                      13           as            206         4              P0             40
BeLlUlA                       2                7            6           24         14           21             46         a               6             1i
WHIWpAs                      13               31           49          102         25           32            310        Is               6             513
CHIHL.M                      Is               25           26          122         55           65            231         4               22            w1
0PAW                         16               32           3           115         36           s0            253         7              22             me
S    OMATO                    8                 7          47           74         IS           35            1s        la                0            46
0UE1  0                      14               20           53           97         30           S             316        20              50             678
HID0"O                        7               30           Is           55          a           54            112        17               17            345
4M.SW                        20               42           74          146         27           G              4         21              52             606
'=3lto                        9                24          26           64         70           46             Is$       12               7             4SO
I60IAcm                      18              3Y            Si          107         53           10            40         2                go            an
ma                            6                12          11           55         la           3              10         3               13           2a1
WAMIT                         5                13          IS           59         17           40            124        12               12            31
4EW LEON                      9               20           43           so         35           8             13         16               17            444
WUACA                        12               37           63          126         36           45            416        Ia              Is             401
PUEBA                         a               29           42           SI         20           30           11          2               9             410
(EREUARO                      7                13          14           52         12           37            20          7               S             55
ufimY      nROO               4                 6           4           35          9           2              tQS        9               5             211
SMI WIS POSI                 15               32           46          113         35          69             2          Is               S             o1
SINLA                         8               32           24           is        2           34             176        18                             426
S014m                        is               10           30          87          23          79             215         3                            46S
TABASCO                       4                II          14           43          9           35            120         6               S             248
TASLIPAS                     11               30           62          144         46         l1s             215         8               3             71s
7LAJCC.A                      3               10           it           25         Is          30              74        7                1             150
VERARJZ ZWAMTM               22              5           103          182         22          93             471       5                35            1016
2Z011ZA                                                       SR-                                                        -        _
YUCATAN                       S               20           21          60          17          30             157         0               3             316
ZMAAECAS                     IS               26           22          U           31          43             ISO        9                7             435
IOTILS                312               693         1013        262          63n        1615            Gal 63    33                 7"
Notm. 1. In addition to tte porsosi llated# cact OCtro Ins a General Resident for Vointm a    ond a G*          ra  Ssporlateddnt for 6qulp t l          _latenma.
2. IIWP's Central Offile bha 77 profeasulonl staff, 201 andnlnstrotlve porrml, 55 oerotarle  and 15  fear levl cl*oya   foee a t.i of 53
peresns. Ovrall,  UP   Io$ IS,=  p.eniol.
3. Perene l as*ipgd t  the Cnter In %racrow Zoe Su rre Included Int tt1  flw.. for t15 breruZ Zan  beto Cetre.
Soircot SCI
Itev.o  95s



- 38 -
TAKLE 2.8
HIGHWAY KADI1nW( RM~
Federal HRiay Investmests (1977-1986)
(in wiliom of 1986 Hex$) 1/
M!pe of Inimstumt  1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Ccrstruetion      46,800  45,400  47,700  50,500  61,700  50,500  89,500  71,800  41,800  19,900
Mbderntsdztn      12,200  22,000  30,900  44,900  90,700  67,800  90,200  82,000  86,600  79,30(4J
hzal idRa
Qbstruetion      36,000  39,300  52,400 107,600 160,400 105,200  31,600  25,000  22,300   9,400
Trwik PSed
Mbintenwaoe/    65,500  65,500  59,900  59,900  68,300  52,400  78,800  85,600  95,300  53,100
Ridz Rad
Mbinteenann        3/      3/       3/      3/      3/      3/    13,700  11,300  11,100   8,700
Other Invest.    104,800 106,200 133,700  77,200 135,600  94,500  30,200  22,500  13,000   6,900
7'tal       265,300 278,400 304,600 340,100 516,700 370,400 334,000 298,200 270,100 177,300
1/ MPX$570:US$1.0
2/ From 1977 to 1983 "reccxtructicei W  included in the amounts for "uodernization." In uhsequet year,
it has besi incluWdk inwtA  tunder trnak rod maintenace.
3/ Included with trunk road uaintenrnc.
/ Includes total invmtmts by CyP of ? x$41700 tdllion/year
otwoe: aDo* staff, SPP ard SCr
N*rvaber 1986



- 39 -
TABLE 2.9
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Condition Inventory of the Federal Highway Network (1985/1986)
Length of Road in Condition Shown 'km)
Poor       Fair          Good       Excellent      Total
Rating(Points)      (0 - 250) (250 - 380)  (380 - 430) (430 - 500)
Centros
AGUASCALIENTES                       3         354
BAJA CALIFORNIA                  1,065         258
BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR    5           418         806
CAMPECHE                           565         181
COAHUILA                           264         940            354
COLIMA                             328           5
CHIAPAS                            964          43
CHIHUAHIJA                       1,517         364
DURANGO               368        1,312          11
GUANAJUATO             72          952         113             38
GUERRERO              181          752         980
HIDALGO               321          506          45
JALISCO                          1,460         115
MEXICO                  2          638         199
MICHOACAN             480          690       1,112
MORELOS                            383          66
NAYARIT                            334         229             21
NUEVO LEON                         126       1,080
OAXACA                666        1,638          84
PUEBLA                165          643         335             14
QUERETARO              52          509          37
QUINTANA ROO                                  882
SAN LUIS POTOSI                    859         345             85
SINALOA                            920         633
SONORA                           1,094        436
TABASCO                68          302         169            123
TAMAULIPAS                       1,393         753
TLAXCALA                           338         190
VERACRUZ ZONA NORTE
VERACRUZ ZONA SUR                  457        499             383
YUCATAN                          1,164          30
ZACATECAS                        1,324
Totals          2,380      22,918      11,294          1,018       37,610 1/
Percentage of
Total Inventoried      62           61%         30%            32         100%
1/ Length of roads inventoried out of total 41,800 km paved roads in network
(Table 2.5).   Roads assigned to the Pavement Strengthening Program (2,700
km) are not included in this listing (see Table 3.4). Toll roads under the
jurisdiction of CyPF are also not included (953 km).
Source: SCT
November 1986



- 40 -
TABLE 2.10
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SCT's Maintenance Budgets
(Mex$ millions) /
Y E A R
BUDGET ITEM                                    1983     1984      1985     1986
Engineering and Supervision                    2/         2/       2/       -
Machinery and Equipment                         915     3,300   4,500    4,350
Sealing of Roadways                             750       900   1,000    1,200
Asphaltic Overlays on Roadways                 3/         3/       3/       3/
Maintenance and Repair of Bridges               3/        3/       3/       3/
Pavement Strengthening and
Reconstruction                              4,418     6,561   6,700   10,745
Normal Maintenance of Federal
Road Network                               10,556    22,200  30,000   36,727
Totals                            16,639    32,961  42,200   53,022
Maintenance of Rural Roads                    2,242     4,700   6,226    8,700
(including Rehabilitation)
1/ In current terms.
2/ Included in item for pavement strengthening and reconstruction.
3/ Included in item for normal maintenance of federal road network.
Source: SCT and SPP.
November 1986



- 41 -                                   TAKE 2.11
HIGHAY MAWINNM  PIWIT
Mawr" o Fbel Priec
Prices /
(Mx$ per lLter)
1974  1977  1981  1982   1983  1984   1985    1986   19872/
0nRte Prices
Gasoline Mmva        2.10  2.80  2.80  10.00  30.00  40.00  85.00    155.0   205
Goline Era          3.00  4.00  7.00  15.00  41.00  54.00 105.00   180.00   240
Diel                 0.45  0.65   1.17  4.00  19.00  26.0D  61.12   140.00   187
Inter-
Price     reticnad
1987       Pdice2f
amstarit Pti                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(lS$/llter) (IM/liter)
Gaoline Nova         4.24  3.29   1.47  2.63   4.16   3.94   5.31    3.77    0.17             0.13
Gasoline Extra       6.06  4.70  3.66  3.95   5.68   5.33   6.56    4.38    0.19              0.14
Dlae                 0.91  0.76  C.61   1.05   2.63   2.56   3.83    3.41    0.15             0.12
kdiW  Riate (MW/US$)   12.5  22.5  25.0  70.0  150.0  168.0  257.0   970.0  1218.0
./ iad of year.
2/ April 1987.
/   Caribbem mirket, I- mdd fist quarter 1987.  en sipplrg, hmndling aMi delivery costs are dded, the
international proie Is aproIydutey equal to the dometic price at the pup.
4/  Obtatnri by applyLi ad year aemwr price irmex (asew - 100 in 1978) as proKy for inflation.
Soirce: MiP al World hi
April 1987



- 42 -            ~~~~~TABLE 2.12
-  42  -             ..~4 
;j1I    c. l                 If.,'..l   A
X t121   > >~~21       .1  If  U'91
0  501  G  s |  g g|  R0   C
B  i P~~~~~~~~I . . __ 
!~~~~i      ]                  ^^      I 
Dali]   1  -I--I N    1    gt 
ii ]1I S  1        S11       ' I        t
4    0   0  ~~~O0I    00 oX    9 k> 



MExlaD
Past and *WI%n Operationis In t1e M*muy Sobector
Board      Loan Aiwt         Nosa of Project                                                                           Ya
ICan to.:   Date       (US$ Milion)                                       Main Capontnts                                         Cmanpeted
268-ME      10/60         25.0        First fflgby Project           COxtruction of 3,150 kai of federal hiL&Wys                   1968
317-ME      08/62         30.5         First Tonl Road Projec-t       C trcimof 385 kmi of toil roads, 5 bridges and               1967
procurewnt of ferry boat
354-IE      09/63         40.0         Second Hlgba  Project          Oonstruction of 6,000 kmn of federal higmqss ard             1972
40(1-ME    02165          32.0         Second Toll Road Project      Cocxuttimn of 350 kmn of tonl roads and 3 tDil bidgBs         1970
528-ME     01/68          27.5         Third lUgim  Project          Comstrctiou of 2,200 kmi of federal bighways                   1973
695-ME     06/70          21.8         Fourth HIlgWy Project         Ccnstructifm of 1,040 kmn cf federal h%ighwys                  1977
968-ME      03/74         90.0         Seveitth Highway Project       0oistruct1l  of 1,216 kan of federal biglways                 1977
(inch1dirg widenrdr)
1671-ME     03/79         120.0        lIgwyW Sector Project          A prrqpa  to irDderrAze/ifrorcie roaRs, comtruwt ujor
bridges, road     asrin~to tw ports and by-psse            1984
2428-ME      05/84        200.0         Secmnd HIghWa Sector          A prgran of cotni aicx/eouV       utx~
rdW)ilitatlon ard felrwaenmt aid tedmkcal
assistance                                              OngoLing
2525-4f      04/85         22.0        (2iapas Ruiral Roads            Ccxwtzuctienr of 1,000 kmn of rural rora I and            Ongoing
reconstruction cf 2,000 kmn
Souroe: Bs* staff
November 1986



- 44 -
TABLE 3.2
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Composition of Maintenance Improvement Program and Annual Physical Targets
Year
Actual                                          1987-1991
Program Component               1986   1987    1988    1989    1990      1991      Total
Routine Maintenance (km)       i5,000  31,000  33,500  37,500  42,000   43,000        -
Chip Seal for Asphaltic
Concrete Pavements (km)                 7,400   7,400   7,400  11,000   14,800   48,000
- By Contract (km)                -     1,850   1,850   1,850   2,750    3,700   12,000
- By Force Account (km)         4,000   5,550   5,550   5,550   8,250   11,100   36,000
Overlay for .Asphaltic
Concrete Pavements (km)                 3,400   3,800   3,000   4,000    4,000   18,200
- By Contract (km)                100   2,550   2,850   2,250   3,000    3,000   13,650
- By Force Account (km)           900     850     950    750   1,000    1,000    4,550
Repair and Rehabilitation
of Bridges (each)                         330     230     130     130       130      950
- Major Works (bridges)            10      80      80      80      80       80       400
- Minor Works (bridges)            50     250     150      50      50        50      550
Pavement Strengthening 1,
of Asphaltic Concrete
Pavements (km)                      -     260     260     685     685      810    2,700
Reconstruction of Bridges2/        30     100     100     100      100       50      450
(each)
Equipment Scrapped (Units)          -     600     600    600      600      600    3,000
Equipment Rehabilitated (Units)    50     225     225     225     125       115      915
New Equipment Procured (Units)      -     450     450    450      450      470    2,270
Training Accomplished (Persons) 1,400   2,650   2,600   3,850   3,800    3,000   15,900
1/  Strengthening of theae pavements will be financed under the Second Highway Sector
Project, Loan 2428-Me (Table 3.4).
2/ The reconstruction of 100 of these bridges will be financed under the Second Highway
Sector Project, Loan 2428-MEo
Source: SCT and Bank Staff
April 1987



- 45 -
TABLE 3.3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE RORJECT
Proposed SCT Road Maintenance Budgets - 5 Year Program
(US$ Mlllion Equlvalent)
Actual Budgetted         k oposed Budgets           1987-1991
Item                           1986    1987   1987    1988    1989    1990  1991   Total
I. SCT's Maintenance Improvement Program
A. Project Components
Sealing of Roadways                2     I/     20      20       20      30    40    130
Asphaltic Concrete
Overlays of Roadways             19     15     47      53       43      55    54    252
Maintenance and Repair
of Bridges                        2/    2/      9       a        6       6     S     34
Purchase of New Equipment
including Spare Parts  3/         8     7       8      13       13      10    10     54
Rehabilitation of Existing
Equipment and Workshops;
Acquisition of Spare Parts, 4/
Tools and Equipment               5/    5/      2       4        4       5     5     20
Training and Technical Assistance 6/    6/       1       2        2     1.5   1.5      8
Sub-Total (A)                29     22     87      100     88      108   115    498
B. Routine Maintenance of Federal
_Ihwa Network 7/              64     79     75      80      82       85    90    412
Sub-total (A+B)             93    101    162      180     170      193   205    910
II. Pavement and Bridge
Strengthening Program            8/    10     20      20      50       50    60    200
Sub-total (I+II)             93   111    182      200     220      243   265  1.110
III. Rural Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation                  15     13     36      44      40       40    40    200
Totals (1+11+111)             108    124    218     244     260      283   305  1,310
1/ Included in amount for asphaltic concrete overlays.
2/ Included in amount for routine maintenance.
3/ For new equipment.
4/ For existing equipment.
1/ Included in amount for purchase of new equipment.
6/ Included in amount for routine maintenance.
7/ Amounts shown include labor costs and overall DGCOP admndistrative and other costs.
8/ Included in amount for asphaltic concrete overlays.
Notes: 1. Items included under Category "A are those iAich are components of SCT's Five-
Year Maintenance Improveunt Program for the paved federal highway network and
where financing for a port ion of these components will be provlded under the
proposed project.
2. On the average, under SCT's Maintenance Improvement Program: (a) about 7,500 km
will be sealed each year; (b) about 3,500 km will be overlain each year; and
(c) about 200 bridges will be treated each year.
Source: SCT and Bank Staff
April 1987



- 46 -
TABLE 3.4
MXICO
HIGHWAY MAU1W1AU PROJECT
Pavanent Sttrthnu A taDt
(  -r- N_U     _
Estimated
Road Section                             AAM 2/      From Km   to Km      osdWidth    lth            Cost
(ters)       (K)   TUSS Millions)
Jalisco
Irapuato-La Piedod                    8,573        30.0      80.0        11.0          50.0       4.4
La Pledad-Lia Edos. Mtich/Jal.        8,573        80.0      90.0        10.0          10.0        U.8
V. Hermos&-La Barcs                   5,517        44.0      58.0        10.0          14.0        1.1
la Barea-Santa Rosa                   9,636         0.0      79.0        10.0          79.0        6.6
2apotlanejo-oWadalajara               6,975       161.0      28.0        10.0          28.0        2.2
Guadalajara-Ent. Ameca                7,957         0.0      25.0        22.0          25.0        4.4
Sinaloa
Tepic-4azatLan                        7,850       145.0      20.0         7.2          20.0        1.2
Hasatlan-Culiacan                     6,970        35.0      81.0         7.2          81.0        4.5
Culiacan-Mochia                       8,0U6       175.0      20.0         7.2          20.0        1.2
Navojoa-Cd. Obregon                   7,580       159.0      64.0         7.2          b4.0        3.6
Sonora
Cod. Obregon-usymas                   5,835         0.0     116.0         7.2         116.0        8.0
Hermsillo-Santa Ana                   5,250        11.0     100.0         7.2         100.0        6.0
Hidalg-Vertacruz
3ulancingo-Poza Rica                  6,490         0.0     150.0         7.2         150.0        9.2
Veracruz
Naranjos-Otuluama                     3,080        96.0     125.0         9.0          29.0        2.1
Trampico-anuel                        7,038        37.0      70.0         7.2          43.0        2.4
Tamaulipas
Manuel-Soto La Marina                 2,052         0.0     145.0         7.2         145.0        8.1
Soto La Marina-La Coass               2,225         0.0      86.0         7.2          82.0        5.0
Cd. Victoria-San Fernando             3,374         0.0     175.0         7.2         170.0       10.4
San lAs Potosi
San Lis Potosid-atehuala              6,973        47.0     187.0        10.0         140.0       11.4
Matehuala-Saltillo                    6,975       211.0     249.0        10.0          22.0        1.8
Coshuila
Saltillo-'Monclova                    5,200        45.0      60.0        10.0          15.0        1.2
Lim. Edos. N.L./Coah-P.Negras         2,200        43.0     100.0        10.0          33.0        2.6
Torreo-Saltillo                       4,000       165.0     223.0         8.0          43.0        2.7
mumev Leon
Saltillo-oanterrey                    7,580        34.0      84.0        16.0          50.0        6.2
(Guerrero
zcala-adlpacingo                      5,590        50.0      95.0         8.0          45.0        2.8
Chilpanclago-Acapulco                 6,998         0.0     125.0         7.6         125.0        8.0
Tabseco
Cardenas-Comalcalco                   4,400       118.0     156.0        12.0          38.0        3.6
Villahermea-Macuspana                 5,887        14.0      64.0         8.0          50.U        3.1
Maxico
tos  RIes-Texcoo-Lecheriaa          15,749         0.0      79.0        22.0          79.0       13.4
Naucalpan-Toluca                      7,504         4.0      56.0         9.0          52.0        3.6
Vera Cruz
Paso del toro-Alvarado                6,343         0.0      50.0         7.2          50.0        2.8
Mocarbo-P. del Toro-La Tinaja         8,188        60.0     120.0         7.2          60.0        3.4
Facopetazo-Pichucalco                 1,002        50.0     116.0         8.0          58.0        3.3
Oaxaca
SaUna Cruz-Acayucan                   5,090        64.0     302.0         7.2         200.0       12.0
Michuelan
Ca'raan-IUupa                         4,222         0.0      82.0         7.2         61.0        3.4
Uruapan-Guatro Caainoe                4,642        82.0     137.0         7.2          55.0        3.1
Cuatro Caminos-Lazaro Cardenas        2,024       255.0     305.0         7.2          50.0        2.8
Maravatio-forelia                         -        80.0     160.0         7.2          80.0        5.0
Zamora-Viatahernmo                    4,500         1.0      56.0         7.2          55.0        3.1
Quiroga-2'apu                         3,900        40.0      80.0         7.2         40.0        2.3
Bala California Norte
Tijuaa-San  iguel                     4,900        28.3      69.0        10.0          23.0        1.8
Ensensda-lazaro Cardenas              2,500        29.0     196.0        10.0         50.0         3.9
188.5
Bridges to be Reconstructed or Iidened (100 Bridges)                                                 10.0
TOfrAL                                                                              2,700.0      198.5
Say US$200 million
1/ To be carried out and financed under the Second HIWsay Sector Project (LOan 2428-9w). About 100 bridges which need
reconstruction or widening will also be included.
2/ AAlr 1985.
Source: SCT and Bank Staff.
April 1987



- 47 -
TABLE 3.5
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Periodic Maintenance Program for 1987
(Asphaltic Concrete Pavements)
Pavement Overlay 1/                     Sealing
Length    Estimated Cost            iength     Estimated Cost
Centro                    (K1m)    (US$ Millions)            (Km)       (US$ Millions)
AGUASCALIENTES                35            0.5                   80            0.22
BAJA CALIFORNIA              100            1.4                  210            0.57
BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR           95            1.3                  192            0.52
CAMPECHE                      55            0.8                  192            0.52
COAHUILA                     130            1.8                  260            0.70
COLIMA                        48            0.7                   78            0.21
CHIAPAS                       95            1.3                  167            0.45
CHIHUAHUA                    148            2.1                  432            1.17
DURANGO                      137            1.9                  342            0.92
GUANAJUATO                    90            1.2                  202            0.55
GUERRERO                     129            1.8                  362            0.98
HIDALGO                       58            0.8                  219            0.59
JALISCO                      200            2.8                  300            0.81
MEXICO                        25            0.3                  210            0.57
MICHOACAN                    153            2.1                  513            1.38
MORELOS                       58            0.8                   61            0.16
NAYARIT                       84            1.1                  154            0.42
NUEVO LEON                   107            1.5                  234            0.63
OAXACA                       286            3.9                  446            1.20
PUEBLA                        89            1.2                 245             0.66
QUERETARO                     90            1.2                  188            0.50
QUINTANA ROO                  59            0.8                  193            0.52
SAN LUIS POTOSI              309            4.3                  179           0.48
SINALOA                       72            1.0                  104           0.28
SONORA                       167            2.3                  183           0.49
TABASCO                       40            0.5                  113            0.31
TAMAULIPAS                   145            2.0                  393            1.06
TLAXCALA                      40            0.5                  150            0.40
VERACRUZ ZONA NORTE           82            1.2                  206            0.56
VERACRUZ ZONA SUR             80            1.1                  245            0.66
YUCATAN                       47            0.6                  260            0.70
ZACATECAS                     90            1.2                  267            0.72
TOTAL                      3,343           46.0               7,380            19.91
1/ Asphalt concrete hot mix - 5 cm thick.
NOTES: 1. Prices as of May 1987.
2. Contingencies not included.
3. For details of the Program, see Project File.
Source: SCT
April 1987



- 48 -
TABLE 3.6
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Proposed Periodic Maintenance Program for 1988
(Asphaltic Concrete Pavements)
Pavement Overlay 1/                  Sealing
Length    Estimated Cost          Length   Estimated Cost
Centro                      (Km)     (US$ millions)           (Km)    (US$ millions)
AGUASCALIENTES               41            0.6                  70         0.19
BAJA CALIFORNIA             170            2.3                 316         0.85
BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR         149            2.1                 235         0.63
CAMPECHE                    102             1.4                235          0.63
COAHUILA                    127             1.7                290         0.78
COLIMA                       32            0.4                  85         0.23
CHIAPAS                      75             1.0                260         0.70
CHIHUAHUA                  127             1.7                 320         0.86
DURANGO                     96             1.3                 300         0.81
GUANAJU,'O                 119             1.6                200         0.54
GUERRERO                    218            3.0                 460          1.24
HIDALGO                      90             1.2                152          0.41
JALISCO                    230             3.2                 368          1.00
MEXICO                       56            0.8                 150         0.40
MICHOACAN                   262             3.6                420          1.13
MORELOS                      23            0.3                  73         0.20
NAYARIT                     42             0.6                 118         0.32
NUEVO LEON                  67             0.9                 210         0.57
OAXACA                      196            2.7                 330         3.89
PUEBLA                      160            2.2                 282         0.76
QUERETARO                   47             0.6                 100         0.27
QUINTANA ROO                48             0.6                 200         0.54
SAN LUIS POTOSI             93             1.3                 272         0.73
SINALOA                     127            1.7                 220         0.59
SONORA                     250             3.4                 228         0.61
TABASCO                     48             0.7                  84         0.23
TAMAULIPAS                  160            2.2                 324         0.87
TLAXCALA                    67             0.9                  98         0.26
VERACRUZ ZONA NORTE         111             1.5                227         0.61
VERACRUZ ZONA SUR           112             1.5                217         0.58
YUCATAN                     92             1.3                 192         0.52
ZACATECAS                  263             3.6                 358         0.97
TOTAL                    3,800            51.9              7,394         19.92
1/ Asphalt concrete hot mix - 5 cm thick.
NOTES: 1. Prices as of May 1987.
2. Contingencies not included.
Source: SCT
April 1987



- 49 -
TABLE 3.7
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Tentative Periodic Maintenance Program
(Asphaltic Concrete Pavements)
Annual Programs for 1989-1991
Item/Year                     1989       1990       1991
A.  Pavement Overlay (5 cm thick)
Length (km)                         3,000     4,000      4,000
Estimated Cost (US$ Millions)        43.0       54.0      54.0
B.  Bituminous Chip Seal
Length (km)                         7,400    11,000    14,800
Estimated Cost (US$ Millions)        20.0      30.0       40.0
NOTES: 1. Prices as of May 1987.
2. Contingencies not included.
Source: SCT
April 1987



- 50 -
MWaD                                      TABE 3.8
tUY  1ADOMM PM=
(US$  )L1tn
Base 8tB             wow    1,,MlM (ceu ncve
Project CMuMmnt                Iocl  Norelg    otal                           local  Fbretgn  Total
CLVil Worms
1.  Pexiodic Mbntename Progrm for Ra
on the Federal yigNy tNtwrk                 94.60  60.40   155.00        114.35   73.00   187.35
2.  Repair and Rehilitati
Prwg    for Edstig   }ids
and Oulvets on Federal IftW
N&et tk                                     15.25   9.75   25.0           18.43    11.79   30.22
3.  1WXiShqp Construction,
ltati, birovmt aId
F~ninProgram iIEjAdi1
WDrkshop Tools asnd Eqdpua  and
an Initial Stodt of Spre Parts
for SchedLted Mitntenaoe                     3.75   2.25    6.00           4.53    2.72    7.25
MaintenHnc Equpmt
4.  Repair ard RehabLitation of
bl.sting Equipment                           2.50   5.50    8.00           3.02    6.65    9.67
5. Proairameit of New Poad
?htennoaEqipact lwncdiim
Msocxiabed Spare Parts                       2.50  32.50   35.00           3.05   39.25   42.30
6.  Tradni  Progran inclh4ling
Tedmical Sipport for Traidrig                0.90   0.50      1.40         1.09    0.60      1.69
Ctmltixg Services
7.  (wltirg Services and
lEtcical &Wpport                             1.70   0.80     2.50          2.05    0.97     3.02
Total Base Costs                      121.2D  111.70  232.90          -        -       -
TOM  PE1ECr o06r                                                         146.53   135.00  281.53
Mates:
1. Pric  as of May 1987.
2. Physical cctiionc  taken as la% of hase aosts.
3. Inflation factors use to determin  price oatirncies are: 3 for 1987, 1.0% for years 1988 thru
1990, and 3.5% for years 1991 to 1995.
Soowre: Bank staff
Aprl 1987



51 -
TAmBE 3.9
MEN0X
HIGWMAY MAINlENANC  PR]E
Maintenac lnteorventions for Asphaltic Concrete Paved Roads
Periodicity f or Condition Indicated (Years)
Light Traffic       MAdium Traffic       Heavy Traffic
(ADr less than 1,500)  (AUT 1,500-5000)    (ADr over 5,000)        Estimated
Type of                                                                                    Cost
Intervention              Good  Fair  Poor     Good  Fair Poor    Good  Fair Poor   US$ per im   1/
Type of nterventi     2/
Patching                     *     *      *         *     *     *       *    *     *      N/A
Crack Sealing                *     *      *         *     *     *       *    *      *      W/A
Fog Seal                     3     2     -          2     -     -       2    -     -      N/A
Chip Seal-Single                          4        Z]Z]   -                        -        3,950
Open-Graded Friction
Course (1.5 cm)             5     4     2          4     2     2       4    2      1      11,000
Cold Mix-Bladed
(5 cm.)                     6     4     3         4      3     3       4    3     2      12,000
Hot Mix  (5an)             [j.12]                  LiIii1   6           8    7      5      18,000
Hot MAx  (7 cm.)            14    12    10         12   10   J          0   8 j [6         25,000
1/ Prices as of May/Jue 1987.
2/ Using bitumlixno  miterial on asphalt acrete pavaemnts.
* As neede
D   Recomended treatment based on budgetary resources available (see Table 3.3),
Nbtes: 1. life cycle shOU1d be taken as 2 x 20 years.
2. Periodicity means "on the average, every _    years".
3. Price estimetes assume ork is to be carried out by contract.
Source: Bank staff
April 1987



- 52 -
MEXICO                              TABLE 4.1
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
LOAN CATEGORY                         Loan Allocated         % of
Expressed in      Expenditures
Dollar Equivalents     Financed
I. Civil Works
(a) Periodic Maintenance Program for
Roads on the Federal Highway Network        60,400,000       39%
(b) Repair and Rehabilitation
Program for Existing Bridges
and Culverts on Federal Highway
Network                                      9,750,000       39%
(c) Workshop Construction,
Rehabilitation, Improvement and
Expansion Program including
Workshop Tools and Equipment
and an Initial Stock of Spare Parts
for Scheduled Maintenance                    2,250,000       39%
II. Maintenance Equipment
(a)  Repair and Rehabilitation Program                           100% of foreign
for Existing Equipment                       5,500,000           expenditures;
65% of local
expenditures.
(b)  Procurement of New Road                                     1U0% of foreign
Maintenance Equipment                       30,000,000           expenditures;
100% of ex-fectory
cost for
locally manu-
factured items;
65% of the cost of
locally procured
III.  Training                                                            items;
Training Program including
Technical Support for Training               1,400,000      100%
IV.   Consulting Services
Consulting Services and
Technical Support                            2,500,000      100%
V.    Unallocated                                    23,200,000
Total                                    135,000,000
Source: Bank staff
April 1987



- 53 -
MEXICO                         TABLE 4.2
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions )
Cumulative
Dlsbursements       Disbursements
for the            at end of         Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year          Semester             Semester         Percentage
t:)
1988
December 31, 1987            0                    0
June 30, 1988               14.01/               14.0                10
1989
December 31, 1988            4.0                 18.0                13
June 30, 1989                5.0                 23.0                17
1990
December 31, 1989           13.5                 36.5               27
June 30, 1990               14.8                 51.3                38
1991
December 31, 1990           16.2                 67.5                50
June 30, 1991               16.2                 83.7               62
1992
December 31, 1991           13.5                 97.2                72
June 30, 1992               12.2                109.4               81
1993
December 31, 1992           10.8                120.2               89
June 30, 1993                6.7                126.9                94
1994
December 31, 1993            5.4                132.3               98
June 30, 1994                2.7                135.0               100
Assumptions
Loan Signing Date : October 1987
Loan Effectiveness: January 1988
Project Completion: December 31, 1993
Loan Closing Date : June 30, 1994
1/ Early disbursements reflect retroactive financing of Initial works
(para. 4.18).
Note: This table does not reflect the initial deposit to the Special
Account to be made when the Loan becomes effective.
Source: Bank Staff
May 1987



- 54 -
AEX 1
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Past Bank Involvement and Operational Issues
in the Highway Sector
I. Past Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector
1.        The Bank has been Involved with the Mexican Highway SeLtor since
1960, and has made a total of nine loans, two of which were for toll road
projects, five as regular projects in the federal road system, and the last
two as sector projects also to the federal highway authorities.
2.        The first six loans (loan numbers, titles, amounts and status shown
in Table 2.3) can be summarized as follows:  The first and second toll road
projects financed the foreign exchange costs of construction of 385 km and
468 km respectively of toll roads.  Although delays in execution of 2 1/2 and
two years respectively occurred the projects were completed e*l:isfactorily
although the distance was reduced to 380 km in the second, Th, four loans
for federal highways financed construction or Improvement of some 3150 km,
6000 km, 2200. km, and 1000 km of federal highways which, together with the
toll roads, represented more than one third of the systeim l-nth. The main
difference between the first two federal highway projects (and the two toll
road projects) and the last two were that detailed engineering was required
for the latter and cost over-runs were accordingly reduced. All these
projects were completed with insignificant changes in project scope;
effectively, completion dates were extended as necessary to accomplish this.
3.        The seventh highway project had a somewhat different thrust.  It
provided for construction of 12 new roads (1670 km) of which four were
specifically to open up agricultural areas, while the remainder were to fill
missing links in the existing system, together with widening of a further 200
km of existing roads. While the financing focus remained firmly on
construction the thrust of discussions and agreements during appraisal went
beyond engineering concerns and covered transport sector planning and
regulatory practices in the sector.
4.        The First and Secona Sector Projects moved away from financing
specific roads to assisting with the SAROP highway development programs for
FY 1979-82 (later extended to FY 1983) and FY 1984-1988. In the First
Project the Bank envisaged financing about 45% of the foreign exchange cost
of SAHOP's four year program, which was considered appropriate for the
economic situation then obtaining in Mexico. This obJective was largely
achieved. Under the Second Sector Project, which is still under execution,
the Bank expected to finance approximately 12% of the 1984-86 "time slice"
(37% of the foreign exchange cost) of the 1984-88 program. A process was
introduced under the First Sector Project for joint SAHOP/Bank budgetary
consultations. These were undertaken informally but under the Second Sector
Project more structured annual reviews were introduced in which Bank inputs
to the highway sector programing process were recognized and accepted. These
are now proceeding to the satisfaction of both parties. Procurement
procedures have also been brought into closer agreement with Bank practice
under the Second.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
5.        The Fourth and Seventh Highway Projects, and the First Sector
Project, have been the subjects of PCRs and the first two also of PPAR (the
First Sector Project PPAR is under preparation). The Fourth Highway Project
PPAR noted that strong inflationary pressure, together with an overvaluation
of the Peso, led to a reduced Bank disbursement percentage from 33% to 18%
and problems with budgetary allocations led to the three year delay in
project completion. It also observed that close linkage of Bank financing to
specific large projects makes project execution vulnerable to local
budgetary constraints. The PPAR on the Seventh Highway Project noted in
particular that project execution was delayed and that sharp increases in
costs with an inadequately expanded budget led to a significantly reduced
project scope, but also concluded that the construction/development of the
roads which eventually formed the project remained economically justified.
The PCR on the First Highway Sector Project concluded that while the project
achieved certain key objectives, such as flexibility and quick disbursement,
supervision resources were reduced excessively compared with those devoted to
traditional projects and this particular sector project did not provide an
adequate mechanism for d:scussion of topics, such as fuel pricing and road
user charges which, although of sectoral importance, are strongly
macro-economically oriented. It also noted that substantial real cost
increases occurred, for a variety of reasons, including design changes and
cost underestimation in particular cases such as the two major bridges
included ir. the Project.
6.        Despite the timespan of 19 years between the First Federal Highway
ProJect (Loan 268-ME) and the First Highway Sector Project (Loan 1671-ME),
and the diverse economic, inflationary and exchange rate experiences of the
Mexican economy, and even the fact that two early projects were for toll
roads (Loans 317-ME and 401-ME), there were common features in all projects.
The analysis below first reviews the quantitative features of the projects up
to and including the Seventh Highway Project and examines some of the
underlying factors. It then looks at the changes in approach which first
appeared under the Seventh Highway Project and were built upon during the two
Highway Sector Projects and have reached a logical conclusion in the proposed
Maintenance Project.
7.        Practically all of the first seven projects were forecast to be
completed in four years from appraisal. None achieved this objective and
there was no indication of systematic improvement over the period; the first
project was completed 3 1/2 years behind schedule and the seventh four years
late. The underlying causes were not the physical capability of the agencies
(primarily SAHOP) involved, to undertake the work. Despite terrain
difficulties in many cases, there appear to hlave been few problems with
engineering capabilities. However, shortages of local funds, due mainly to
the joint effects of budgetary provisions not living up to expectations and
costs both in current and real terms being underestimated, led to revisions
in project scope and the delays which the need for agreement on such changes
inevitably produced. While such difficulties might have been expected where
local financing was directly from the Federal Government, the pattern was
similar with toll roads, where the financing agency's forecast of truck
traffic, and thus of revenues, proved overoptimistic. Despite the average 3
year delay in completion experienced over the first four projects, four year
execution was still assumed for the Seventh Project and, equally importantly,
provision for price contingencies was minimal (under 12%).



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
8.        Despite the problems of unit costs, financing provisions and
execution periods, the first six projects did assist in the construction or
improvement of some 13,000 km of federal and toll roads, with economic rates
of return, (based almost exclusively on vehicle operating cost savings) which
remained satisfactory, despite real construction cost increases, because
traffiz was growing rapidly.
9.        In many respects the Seventh Project was a turning point.  The
project ran into difficulties almost immediately due to shortages of local
funds, and the timing of the project, two years prior to a change in
administration, resulted in postponement of a decision on project
restructuring until the new administration took office. After three years of
inactivity, the project was scaled down by a third from 1875 km to 1216 km.
Once the project started moving, thte physical capabilities of the
construction industry were demonstrated by the fact that while only US$20
million of the Loan was disbursed by FY 1977, the remaining US$70 million was
almost completely disbursed feuar years later. Within the framework of the
Seventh Project, as noted in para 3, the Bank moved away from a narrow focus
on construction, and as a follow-up to a 1976 economic mission, and in
association with the Second Railway Project (Loan 825-ME), began raising
issues in transport sector planning and transport regulation. This
broadening of scope of Bank involvement, and the belated recognition that
unpredictable budgetary constraints contributed significantly to delays in
project execution, led to consideration of and eventual adoption of a sector
approach to highway lending in Mexico. The decision to proceed with a sector
loan ran the risk that weakening of the mechanisms for ensuring that, despite
cost over-runs, construction undertaken would remain economically justified,
would not be fully offset by the advantages of enabling a more broadly based
dialogue to take place on institutional and financial (budgetary) matters.
10.       There are two features of the First Sector Project, apart from
those noted in para 5 above, which deserve comment: (i) the work completed
under the Project was, at first glance, significantly different from that
conceived at project commencement; and (ii) substantial cost over-runs were
experienced. It should be noted, however that: (i) completion of
sub-projects in the traditional sense was not envisaged; the objective was to
provide foreign exchange through time-slice financing for the SAHOP highway
development program over a period of time (six years disbursement- the
shortest since the Second Toll Project); and (ii) significant cost over-runs
were at least partially due to upgrading of sub-projects when additional
funds became available,
II.       The Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME) is presently
underway. Execution is proceeding more smoothly than under the previous
project, partly due to lessons learned and progress made under the first
project. On the institutional side, SCT's analytical capability is
improving, as is demonstrated by their recently produced detailed assessment
of the magnitude and incidence of road user costs and charges, and the
project has provided the initial basis for: (i) discussion of the importance
of increasing highway maintenance expenditures in relation to that on
construction and to insuring that adequate financing Is committed as early as
possible in the annual budget cycle; (ii) encouraging the Government to
prepare bi-annual budget projections; and (iII) the important annual
consultations r-ted in para 4 above.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
II. Operational Issues
A. Vehicle Weights and Dimensions
12.       The strategy of the Government has been to effect a structural
change of the vehicle fleet and its utilization, through the enactment, in
October 1980, of a new system of weight and dlmension regulations, rather
than relying on the often abused system of weighing stations. Under the
leadership of SCT, representatives of the Highway Department, the Secretariat
of Industry, vptjor shippers, vehicle manufacturers, and the trucking associa-
tions worked for three years in drafting the new regulations, a good example
of positive collaboration between Government and private Interests. The new
regulations have basically changed from the former ones regarding: (a) clas-
sification of vehicles and the roads on which they can operate; (b) maximum
weight, axle loads, and dimensions allowed for each; and (c) special condi-
tions for exceptions. The presently allowable maximum weights are summarized
in Table 1, attached. The regulations relate higher axle loadings to vehicle
speeds, which are therefore given more emphasis. Strict speed limits are set
in the regulations for diesel-powered vehicles, i.e., 85 kph for trucks and
95 kph for buses. The regulations also require vehicle manufacturers to lim-
it vehicle performance to those maximums and oblige owners to modify the
transmissions of existing fleets to the same effect.
13.       The Mexican regulatory system relies on the establishment of a new
document issued to each truck, the Certificate of Weight and Dimensions (and
speed limits). The certificate, which is carried with the vehicle at all
times, must be consulted by shippers and loaders, and serves as the basis for
enforcement of the law. The regulations establish in detail the procedures
and penalties for exceeding the limits set in the individual certificate.
The enforcement is carried out by the Highway Police, under SCT's Directorate
of Road Transport. This police force is also entrusted with supervising
speed regulations. Regulatory axle load weight measurements are no longer
carried out, since the limits were found to be unenforceable using methods
dependent on physical truck weighings.
140       The regulations seek to put weight and dimension limits in line
with the current vehicle technological developments. As a result, a more
efficient operation of the fleet and a somewhat reduced incidence of over-
loading is anticipated. While far from a panacea, the regulations are based
on the premise of more generous load limits, coupled with strict control of:
(a) the manufacture, reinforcement, or enlargement of chassis; and (b) the
use of vehicles capable of carrying excessive loads. The use of the truck
Certificate of Weight and Dimension is viewed as a deterrent for overloading,
as much as a means for facilitating enforcement. The extent to which the
truckers are complying is not yet clear, nor is the effectiveness of police
enforcement.
15.       The higher permissible gross loads of 10 m tons for single axles,
18 m tons for tandem axles, and 27 m tons for triple axles on main roads
(Table 1) will require early attention to the strengthening of some existing
highways and, of greater importance, bridges. If such works are not carried
out on a priority basis, the roads and bridges will soon suffer serious
damage.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
16.       During the first two years of the Project, DGCOP, with the assis-
tance of consultanta, will complete a survey of the highway system, covering
pavement conditions (roughness and dynamic deflection testing) and "weigh-in-
motion' studies, to determine the incidence and level of vehicle axle
loadings on the federal highway network (see Annex 5). This information will
then be used by DGCF and DGCOP to review present design criteria and program
appropriate periodic maintenance and strengthening operations.
B. Traffic Counts
17.       ScT has an extensive permanent and seasonal traffic count system.
This system provides basic traffic data, and is amplified by origin and des-
tination surveys--when a project could cause a substantial shift in histori-
cal traffic patterns or when a new alignment requires information on what
portion of the vehicles will remain on the former alignment, because of trip
origins and destinations along that section.
18.       Traffic counts are the responsibility of SCT's Directorate General
for Technical Services. The principal sources of information are the 115
permanent counting stations throughout the country organized to collect 24
hours/day, 7 days/week data. This information is then used to expand the
samples taken at the 3,000 seasonal counting stations, where one-week traffic
counts are compiled. In addition, special counts are taken for specific
projects and analyses. The results are compiled in Mexico City and published
annually.
C. Traffic Safety
19.       SCT maintains statistics on traffic accidents, with a breakdown by
cause, vehicle type, level of damage, etc. Since 1974, the number of
recorded accidents on federal roads has substantially increased. From 1979
to 1980, the number of accidents jumped by 45% and has remained at the higher
level, the increase partly due to better reporting. The number of deaths and
injured did not Increase by as substantial a margin, tending to support the
idea that more accidents of a less severe nature are now being reported.
Actually the number of dead and injured in traffic accidents per number of
vehicles registered has declined since 1977.
20,       The responsibility for 60% of the accidents is consistently identi-
fied as the driver, as opposed to the road conditions, natural causes, the
vehicle or other individuals, although this represents a decline from earlier
years. More interestingly, 18% of the accidents occurred because a driver
was in the wrong lane, most probably attempting to pass in traffic on a
two-lane road. Almost 50% of accidents occurred because of excessive speed.
21.       The Government has taken a broad range of actions to improve
traffic safety. The Directorate General for Road Transport of SCT is the
primary agency responsible for traffic safety. The Federal Highway Police,
under the Directorate, have been expanded. The number of agents has
increased from 650 in 1976 to almost 1,500, reducing the number of federal
road kilometers per agent on duty, from 188 to less than 100. Substantial
investment has been made to adequately equip the agents, and training has
been provided. In addition, SCT has initiated an extensive education and
licensing campaign, aimed at improving driver skills. Since 1979, SCT has



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
established 20 centers for training and licensing operators of commercial
vehicles with federal permits. Every two years, such drivers must be tested
for driving skills as well as medical fitness. Furthermore, commercial
vehicles are inspected every twc years, and police carry out interim sample
checks.
D.   The Road Transport Industry and Regulation
22.       Over the past decade, the Mexican Government has moved to expand
and tighten its regulatory authority over road freight haulage, in contrast
to the general international tendency toward deregulation. Mexican regula-
tions cover entry, capacity, commodity restrictions, geographical operating
rights, tariffs, and corporate structure,
23.       Road tr:ansport industry operations are regulated by SCT through its
Directorates for Motor Transport (DGAF) and Tariffs (DGT). The regulations
apply to all trucks operating on federal highways with a load capacity of
over three tons, and distinguish between four types of service:
(a)       General freight service, for which a permit is issued to carry any
freight within a specialized corridor;
(b)       Specialized freight service, for which a permit is issued to carry
a specific commodity, usually one which requires special handling
or equipment, e.g., tank or dump truck. This permit has no
geographic limitation;
(c)       Non-processed farm and animal products service, which is treated as
specialized freight service and is flexibly defined to permit the
transport of agricultural inputs to the farm; and
Cd)       Private own-account service, for which a permit is provided to a
non-transport company to carry its own goods.
24.       One of the major objectives of SCT has been to improve the organi-
zation of truckers. All operators had to organize themselves into companies
or cooperatives, and no new permits are issued to an individual unless he
joins one of the existing firms. To avoid monopolistic practices, no indi-
vidual can receive more than five permits (one for each vehicle) in his
name. From 1976 to 1982, the number of vehicles wLth general or specialized
freight permits rose from 85,000 to 128,000, which represents over 90% of
interurban road freight traffic.
25.       A Bank mission which visited Mexico to review road freight
transport in 1984 concluded that, within the regulatory framework in Mexico,
the industry was generally operating at efficient levels and at relatively
flexible tariffs, However, there is concern that:
(a)       Although SCT regulates entry into the industry and sets prices, the
data flowing to SCT are inadequate for monitoring the ever-changing
balance between transport supply and demand or for informed
decisions on tariff adjustments; and



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
(b)       The organization of all truckers into cooperatives or companies,
and of all cooperatives and companies into freight centers, remains
in the development stage. Different states are interpreting the
federal government's intent in various ways--some using more
compulsion, others relying on market forces and operators' choice.
26.         Under the present application of the regulatory system, efficien-
cy is high (good load factors and high utilization) and costs and tariffs are
relatively low, while equipment being offered is of high quality. Actual
tariffs in many cases are lower than the official reference tariffs. The
industry's financial health, while strained because of the dollar-denominated
debt structure, seems stable, The problem in Mexico, in terms of regula-
tions, may not be the impact on transport cost, but rather a reduced level or
availability of service caused by restricted entry and oligopolistic prac-
tices, a particular problem for small- and medium-sized shippers. There is
also a need to establish a better data base for improving the quality of
regulatory decisions and assessing the associated costs and benefits.
Improved road information is needed, in particular, to nake licensing of
capacity and rate setting responsive to market conditions and to improve
management of freight centers and terminals.
April 1987



MEXICO
HIGINAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
VEHICLE CLASSIFICATIONS, DISTRIBUTION ANiD LOADIiG
~~~_ .____                                                -    - .                          
T                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~P2uCgVaM  'UKTCAdU
|          CONFIGURA_'fN                        OF TOTAL OF TOTAL               NUMBER          M
CftI      ONIGR.. nNTRUCK  VML                                     TOTAL        OF           AXLE
VEHICLE                                                          FLEET   FLEET    WEIGHT       AXLES         LOADING
TYPE      B u      PROFILE                PLAN
A5  3 s-                                                | Ap             32     _               2 _
~~~~~ 2               ~                             -S3                 -
2IC-UPAc2 
TRUCKS ouc                        I- _ I AA21                                                          _
BUE       2                                             0ZiI     -       1        15.5         2            10.0
2                                            C 2    40                 15.5         2            1n.O
3  1-  '  g=1  3  3l      23.5         3             9.0
U,        ~~~3                                                - 31
25.5         1            10.0
T2-SI                 47
>  TRUCKS    4                                            T2-S2                       33.5         4            10.0
=20 _T3: =ll   *      n-s2   _    41.5         5             9.0
5                     lC} T2-S1-                            26 45.5                 5            10.0
6                                          T3-S3                       46.0         6             9. 0
WECIAL
r.  IThLZ                                                      o                      MAXIMUM   VARIES           10.0
: A(X1tC~IAt.                                            *.                       65.5
V  A  R  I A  1  L  E               W,      VAR IALE
BICYCLES
_OT8ERS         _     ___                                                                       _     _.
SOURCE:  SCT, Vehicle Weitht and Dimension Regulations, November 1980.
weo1d Bok-3tW 13
Novemnber 1986



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Maintenance of Bridges on the Federal Highway Network
A. Introduction and Background
1l        History.  There are about 4,500 bridges (structures over 6 m) on
Mexico's Federal Highway Network (FHN)--an average of one bridge every
10 km. As shown in Table 2.5, there has been a substantial increase (about
250%) in the length of the federal road system since 1952. This increase has
resulted partly from construction of new roads, but also due to integration
of roads from state or local networks into the federal network. The average
age of bridges on the federal network is therefore likely to be more advanced
than on the other networks, although there are no data available on the con-
struction dates of bridges on the federal network. However, indications
drawn from a survey conducted on a 900 km long section indicate that about
75% of bridges on the federal road network were built before 1950, and most
of them were widened in the early 1970's.
2.        Design Loads.  Until 1967 the bridge design load was HS 151/
(total weight: 27 tons), but in 1968 the design load increased to CS 201/
(total weight:  36 tons).  However, while maximum axle loads have remained at
10 m tons, heavier total loads are currently admitted on the PHN without
restriction, for instance, the so-called T3-S3 load (Total weight: 46 tons)
authorized in 1980 (Annex 1). Given the age of the bridges, it is likely
that a large number of them are substandard structures.
3.        Type of Structure.  About 75X of the superstructures are made of
reinforced concrete, of which 752 to 802 are concrete decks with T-beam gird-
ers. The remainder is mainly composed of steel, composite, or prestressed
concrete structures.
B. Current Status
4.        Because of their age, increasing loads, and past shortcomings in
bridge management, bridges on the federal network are in poor condition. Due
to the large increase in actual truck loading compared to design loads, some
bridges are structurally inadequate. It has been reported that, on average,
one bridge collapses each month. Although possibly exaggerated, this figure
should be checked and analyzed, especially since other factors may have con-
tributed to recent collapses, for example, earthquakes or floodings. In any
event, there is an obvious need for the strengthening of a number of bridges
or replacing the decks of a significant part of the bridge stock.
5.        Although many bridges have already been widened to a rolling width
of about 8.00 m, there remain numerous functionally inadequate structures,
1/  HS 15 and HS 20 are standards for bridge design of the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
mainly due to their insuffieient width. Depending upon cost and technical
difficulty, improvement work could be considered either as major work (e.g.,
if added T-beams are needed to allow widening) or minor maintenan'e work
(e.g., if it is a question of simply building overhang sidewalks). Altogeth-
er, an estimated 102 of the bridge stock needs major reconstruction work
because of either structural or functional inadequacies. Such reconstruction
or widening work will not he undertaken under the proposed Highway Mainte-
nance Project, but will be partly financed instead under the ongoing Second
Highway Sector Project, Loan 2428-ME.
C. Bridge Maintenance Management
6.        Even if structurally and functionally adequate, many of the bridges
are not properly managed nor maintained, and basic improvements are required
in the following areas:
a)   All bridges should be posted; showing maximum safe load that can he
carried, particularly when bridge capacity falls below allowable
legal load limits;
b)   Current administrative practices must be improved in the management
of bridges and the planning and programing of works. In order to
accomplish this, the trend towards full responsibility for bridge
maintenance given to the "Residentes Generales de Conservacion"
(General Maintenance Resident Engineers) should be encouraged.
Improvement is needed in bridge inspection and condition rating
systems.
c)   Sensitivity to bridge maintenance issues and training for bridge
maintenance techniques should be developed, especially towards
lower level staff, such as road maintenance foremen.
d)   Preventive measures are needed at the design level to prevent
further damage to bridges and to facilitate maintenance.
7.        At the central level, as well as in the Centros, bridge design and
construction are clearly separated from bridge maintenance. The General
Directorate for Federal Roads (DGCF) is responsible for both design (Direc-
cion de Proyectos de Puentes y Ingenieria Experimental) and construction
(Direccion de Construccion), while at the local level the "Residentes de
Carreteras Federales" (Federal Road Resident Engineers) are In charge. After
a road or bridge has been built by DGCF, a formal agreement is drawn up be-
tween DGCF and DGCOP.2/ DGCOP takes charge of and Is responsible for the
structure and any improvement work that may be needed in the future.
8.        DGCOP is responsible for maintenance work planning (Direccion de
Programacion y Evaluacion) and implementing (Direccion de Obras) and at the
Centro level the General Maintenance Resident Engineers are responsible. Of
the 32 Centros, 29 now have a "Residente de Conservacion de Puentes" -(RCP)
(Bridge Maintenance Resident Engineer) with only Aguascalientes, Baia
California Sur and Durango yet to appoint one. The RCPs have a reasonable
grasp of bridge design.
2/ This agreement should include the transfer to DGCOP of necessary
construction drawings and structural analyses.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
9.        Inventory Status.  SCT has established a computerized program to
process a condition inventory of bridges on the federal network, but this
inventory is not yet complete. It is based on data from the Centros. How-
ever, some Centros apparently cannot afford to inspect all their bridges. A
May 1986 inventory registered 3,582 bridges; the last one available, dated
September 1986, registered 3,936. A breakdown of this figure by Centros is
given in Table 1, attached. On the basis of discussions with DGCOP, and
pending a more accurate inventory, it was agreed that the total number of
bridges on federal roads is probably about 4,500.
10.       Technical data included in the inventory are not reliable; and, in
some cases, the Centros simply neglected to report the type of deck struc-
ture. As no updating procedure has been set up to date, the inventory cannot
be used for assessing actual bridge condition, but only for overall planning
and budgeting purposes. The inventory lacks essential items, such as average
daily traffic and the date of construction or major improvement works. The
inventory needs to be updated; according to budgetary procedures, an updated
inventory should be available to DGCOP by early October each year, so that
proposed works can be reviewed and prioritized to set up the following year's
program. Fixing this deadline should therefore prompt earlier bridge
inspections, taking into account eventual consultants' inspection reports on
updating the inventory.
11.       In order for DGCOP to make comparisons between the proposals made
by various Centros and to prioritize maintenance works, the following addi-
tional information is needed:
- construction date
- average daily traffic
- design load
- actual load or lane limitations
- previous repair or improvement works date
- date and author of the latest inspection
- ratings for various bridge components.
12.       In addition, if the bridge is in bad condition and requires de-
tailed inspection or any kind of major work, further information should be
given on:
- type of proposed works (or inspection)
- costs of proposed works (or inspection)
- any observations relating to economic evaluation, such as detour
length, essentiality for traffic, etc.
- for clarity, photographs should be attached.
13.       DGCOP has devised a bridge data sheet (Table 2, attached), which
would provide the basis for the inventory and would give the kind of informa-
tion which is needed. In the past, this form has been completed in an incon-
sistent manner by the Centros. More care needs to be taken in completing
this bridge data sheet, so as to improve comparison hetween proposals from
the various Centros.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
D. Evaluation of Bridge Condition
14.       Inspections.  Although no schedule has been set for bridge inspec-
tions, SCT has prepared a "Guide for Visual Inspection of Bridges," which is
currently used by consultants responsible for such inspections, but not yet
by the engineers in the Centros. These so-called visual inspections comprise
a summary review of the main components of a bridge, including superstruc-
ture, piles, abutments, and foundations, which is supposed to be carried out
without special equipment. These summary inspections ought to he made by the
General Maintenance Resident Engineers, but, because of the lack of technical
expertise in the Centros, they have been assigned to private consultants.
However, a few Centros, especially those which have an RCP on hand, are now
able to carry out this kind of inspection, and are producing excellent
reports (e.g., in Coahuila State). To date, visual inspections are reported
to have been carried out for 400 bridges.
15.       To facilitate inspections, existing bridge files containing de-
tailed information about structures, such as tender documents and as-built
drawings, should be made available to DGCOP at the time of transfer of re-
sponsibility from DGCF to DGCOP. At present, each time a consultant or a
contractor needs such information for detailed inspection or repair work, it
is necessary to apply to DGCF.
16.       The RCP should adapt the routine inspection frequency to the number
of bridges and availability of personnel. However, each bridge should get a
routine inspection at least every two years. These inspections should be
scheduled so that inspection reports are cleared and inventory updated for
the next year's program. If work is needed, the RCP should list a number of
essential bridges according to their importance, length, or type of
structure which require specific follow-up.
17.       Except for large bridges, the routine inspections should be carried
out by personnel from the Centros, with more detailed inspections handled by
consultants. This assumes that the personnel has had minimum training and
that adequate equipment is available to implement the inspections. In addi-
tion to the formal inspections, all maintenance staff should be tralned so
that they will "keep an eye" on bridges and report any apparent anomalies.
"Keeping an eye" on bridges would require that a foreman or road supervisor
should have a look at the bridge (above the deck and under it), looking at
the alignment of handrails, sidewalks, bearings, and the areas where water
stands after a rain, etc.
18.       Inspectors should be provided with uniform rating standards for
different bridge components, so that General Maintenance Resident Engineers'
proposals can easily be prioritized. In particular, after bridge condition
ratings for the various bridge components have been reviewed, more use should
be made of DGCOP's "Guide for Visual Inspection." At least initially, these
ratings could be simple or even simplistic. For the present program, it is
recommended that ratings for bridges to be included in the 1987-1991
maintenance program should be as follows:



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
a)   urgent; essential in 1987;
b)   desirable in 1987; and
c)   can be postponed to 1988 or later.
This would be sufficient to carry out the prioritization of works for this
program, before more sophisticated ratings, such as those included in the
"Guide," are recommended for general use.
E. Field Maintenance
19.       Based on the inspections, routine maintenance tasks should be car-
ried out by force account, and, therefore, consist of very simple actions,
such as:
a)   making all possible efforts to clear water from structure:  clean-
ing decks, drains, waterpipes; removing dust or debris from expan-
sion joints or bearing areas; removing vegetation from the
approaches;
b)   ensuring that any of the work on the bridge, its approaches or the
channel does not adversely affect the design capacity of the bridge
or interfere with the channel in such a way as to increase the
effects of erosion;
c)   damaged parts should be repaired only to the extent required to
restore the bridge to its original condition, without altering its
structural capacity. This could include such works as overall
cleaning of decks, expansion joints, bearings, drains; repair of
damaged handrails or parapets; painting of non-structural parts
(handrails); and concrete casting over spalled parts, as long as
they are not submitted to large stresses (for instance, it is not
advisable in lower parts of T-beams, but normally acceptable for
foundations, concrete parapets, wingwalls, and the like). However
care should be taken to ensure that these repairs do not cause
further damage or prevent the observance of critical areas.
20.       Periodic maintenance schedules for bridges cannot be as easily
determined as those for road maintenance. As in routine maintenance work,
periodic maintenance is intended only to bring the bridge to its original
design condition--not to improve its capacity. In general, periodic mainte-
nance work is best carried out by contract. Items normally covered by peri-
odic maintenance activities include structural painting, replacement of
expansion joints and bearings, and repairs of stuctural damage, erosion, or
other items which may impair the functional capacity of the bridge.
F. Training
21.       To carry out the inspection and maintenance tasks, SCT personnel,
particularly in the Centros, will require training, Training courses should
involve anyone in charge of bridges, from design to maintenance. For practi-
cal purposes, however, two kinds of courses as well as a series of
round-table seminars, will be organized:



- 67 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
(a)   the first type of course, for higher-level officials, will
stress management issues rather than technical ones, and will
help to set up a bridge maintenance policy and build a general
management framework; its participants would be:
(i)   design engineers, to make them aware of maintenance issues
and design improvements;
(ii) DGCOP officials;
(iii) the General Maintenance Resident Engineers and,
eventually, those responsible for bridge maintenance (the
RCPs);
(b)   the second type of course will aim at giving personnel in the
field, in charge either of routine inspections or road
supervision, basic criteria for appraising bridge conditions and
rating bridge components. There should be no need for using
complicated concepts (such as stress, flexure moments, shear
forces), but only very simple and practical guidelines. Outside
consultants should be closely associated with these courses, so
as to establish a common language for routine inspections; and
(c)   in addition to these courses, round-table seminars, of the type
described in Annex 4, will be convened periodically to promote
better communications, and exchange of views e d information
among the Centro RCPs,
The training component of SCT's Maintenance Improvement Program and of the
Project is developed in Annex 4.
22.       In the absence of more complete inventory data, only preliminary
estimates for the 1987-1991 program are possible. The following assumptions
have been made:
(a)   total number of bridges is 4,500;
(b)   10% require reconstruction or widet;ing (i.e., outside of the
maintenance improvement program);
Cc)   25% of the remainder will require periodic maintenance works;
(d)   -  average bridge length:  Approx. 40 m
- average cost for major works: 1500 US$/m
- average cost for minor works: 400 US$/m
23.       On the average, about 80 bridges will require major periodic main-
tenance works each year, and about 550 bridges will need minor works over the
five-year period (see Table 3, attached). In addition, about 100 bridges,
over the next five years, will be reconstructed or widened under the ongoing
Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME). The balance (about 350
bridges) requiring reconstruction or wider,ing will be carried out, over the
next five years, by the Government, using its own resources, through its
highway construction budget allocations.
24.       Accurate estimates, especially for major works, will require de-
tailed inspection implemented as quickly as possible for the bridges included



- 68 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
in the 1987 program. For this purpose, consultants will be hired (see
Annex 5) so as to have inspection reports and estimates available as soon as
possible. It appears that such a schedule is very constraining, and that the
objectives could only be reached by hiring consultants both in country and
abroad. At least for the first year, these consultants will also be in
charge of an economic evaluation of proposed works. The economic evaluation
for bridge works, both for works to be included in the Second Highway Sector
Project (strengthening, reconstruction, or widening) and in the proposed
Highway Maintenance Project (repair, rehabilitation and maintenance), will be
carried out as described in Ann x 6.
G. Future Development
25.       In order to improve the overall efficiency of bridge design, con-
struction, and maintenance, a consistent management policy has to be compre-
hensive and designed, not only to properly maintain existing bridges, but
also to make sure that future bridges are better designed and easier to main-
tain. Any action aimed at improving bridge management should have a preven-
tive component and involve bridge design engineers. Some inexpensive steps
for future bridge construction should include:
-  establishing improved construction details for bearings;
-  improving waterproofing at expansion loints and under surface
courses;
-  making sure that every component of the bridge will be able to
be inspected;
-  providing means during design and construction to permit
jacking-up of superstructures, in order either to replace
bearings or to properly set a deck (e.g., after an earthquake);
and
-  providing antiseismic restrainers.
April 1987



- 69-                           ANUI 2
Table 1
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Number of Bridges by State - September 1986 Inventory
Distribution of Bridges by State I/
State                       Number of Bridges
Aguascalientes                       13
Baja California                      75
Baja California Sur                  18
Campeche                             31
Coahuila                            259
Colima                               39
Chiapas                             173
Chihuahua                           162
Durango                             252
Guanajuato                          112
Guerrero                            256
Hidalgo                              66
Jalisco                             222
Mexico                               74
Michoacan                           216
Morelos                              63
Nayarit                              81
Nuevo Leon                          180
Oaxaca                              275
Puebla                               51
Queretaro                            64
Quintana Roo                          6
San Luis Potosi                      96
Sinaloa                             151
Sonora                              231
Tabasco                              38
Tamaulipas                          251
Tlaxcala                             83
Veracruz                            309
Yucatan                               2
Zacatecas                            87
Total        3,9:.i6
1/ Bridges on the Federal Highway Network that have been inventoried as of
September 1986. Approximately 600 such bridgea remain to be Included in
the inventor-.
Source: SCT
November 1986



_ lo _                         ANNEX 2
T-b7e
Bridge Data Sheet
Bridge name:                            Program: (    ) Sector(  ) Maintenance
Road,                                   State:
Section,                                Situation:
fype of network:                        Traffic (ADTD              T
Bridge age:                Years        -  Repair priority:
Structure type:
GENERAL CONDITION:
Expansion joints:
Bearings:
Handrail or parapet:
Curbs and sidewalks:
Superstructure deck-
River bed:
Substructure:
Approaches and embankment cones:
Signing:
PROPOSED WORKS,
Repair cost estimate:
Observations (economic warranty)
Source: SCT and Bank Staff
November 1986



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Bridge Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
(1987-1991)
Number of Bridges and Costs
Bridge Works                  1987        1988      1989     1990    1991    Total
Major Works
Number of Bridges            80         80         80       80       80      400
Cost (US$ Million)          5.0        5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0      25.0
Minor Works
Number of Bridges           250        150         50       50       50      550
Cost (US$ Million)          4.0        2.5        0.8      0.8      0.8      9.0
Total Cost (US$ Million)   9.0         7.5        5.8      5.8      5.8      34.0
Note: In addition to these bridges, there are about 100 others which need
strengthening or widening which will be included for financing under
the on-going Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME), and a
further 350 bridges whose reconstruction will be entirely financed by
the Government using its own resources.
Source: SCT and Bank Staff
April 1987



- 72 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SCT's Road Maintenance Equipment Fleet
Status and Needs
A.   SCT's Maintenance Equipment Fleet
1.        SCT has an inventory in its maintenance equipment fleet of approxi-
mately 5,900 units of Class A equipment (Table 1, attached), which includes
such items as pickups, trucks, loaders, motorgraders, bulldozers, and
aggregate and asphalt equipment. In recent years, the equipment fleet has
suffered from lack of a meaningful retirement/replacement program.
Quantities and ages of the current fleet are as follows:
Age                  Number of Units          b_y Age
0 - 4 years                575                  9.7%
4 - 10 years             1,912                 32.5%
10 and up                3,805                 57.8%
5,892 units          100.0%
2.        For the federal highway network maintenance program, a fleet of
about 3,200 units is considered appropriate. To provide this, during the
period of 1987-1991 SCT plans to dispose of about 3,000 units of equipment
and to rehabilitate 915 units. Considering the average age of the fleet,
this is a reasonable and responsible decision. SCT is preparing a specific
list of equipment to be retired or rehabilitated, based on the following
minimum information:
(a) SCT equipment identification number;
(b) Type of unit and manufacturer;
(c) Date purchased and approximate cost;
(d) General condition of the unit if it is to be sold, scrapped, or
cannibalized; and
(e) General condition and estimated cost, if the unit is to be
rehabilitated or remanufactured.
SCT will also prepare a retirement/rehabilitation schedule by year, for the
five-year period 1987-91, which identifies each individual unit by type. It
is important that SCT purge its equipment inventory of units already scrapped
or cannibalized.
3.        Capital Investment.  The current SCT equipment fleet has an approx-
imate total replacement cost of between US$190 and US$200 million. Following
the removal of some 3,900 units from the fleet and the subsequent
remanufacture of 915 of those units, the replacement value will be in the
range of US$95 million. Purchases under SCT's Maintenance Improvement
Program will add directly to this amount.



- 73 -
- 73 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
4.        SCT does not maintain depreciation accounts or a sinking fund for
fleet amortization and replacement. This deficiency should be remedied as
soon as possible. The specific advantage of a depreciation account is to
assist the Government in recognizing the real costs of ownership.
5.        Condition and Status.  Considering the overall age of the SCT
equipment fleet, all operational units appear to be in above average condi-
tion. Preventive maintenance is well-planned, and executed with daily, week-
ly, and monthly checklists. Equipment drivers/operators are assigned
specific units, and there are many instances in which an operator has been
with a unit since its purchase. There are printed operator guides, pre-start
check lists, and safety regulations, all of which tend to increase equipment
life and availability. A monthly equipment status form is used by SCT for
maintaining an operational fleet inventory and providing other equipment
data. The reporting period should be quarterly instead of monthly. The
important factor is the regular submission of the form.
6.        Equipment Maintenance System and Program.  The SCT fleet equipment
maintenance system is good. Each unit of equipment has a history file
jacket, which is good documentation of the life of the unit. Preventive and
routine maintenance are carried out according to hours or kilometers, as
recommended by the various manufacturers. Pickups and trucks are serviced in
the Centros' shop facilities, in accordance with prescribed schedules. Trac-
tors, loaders, bulldozers, motorgraders, etc. are normally serviced by expe-
rienced field lubrication crews with field lubrication units. Regardless of
age, almost all of the fleet appears to be free of excessive dirt, grime, oil
leakage and grease. Operator abuse or neglect does not seem to be a problem.
7.        All equipment is owned by the Government of Mexico, with legal
title resting with SCT. Units are generally assigned on a permanent basis to
one of the 32 Centros' road maintenance organizations. Portable or semi-por-
table units, such as crushers, asphalt plants, pavers, and the like, are
transferred from one Centro to another, as required. SCT will develop this
regional batching and paving concept further under its Maintenance
Improvement Program.
B. Equipment Usage, Availability and Operation
8.        Equipment Needs.  Although private contractors state they have the
capacity to accomplish all asphalt road work, SCT is not in full agreement,
and, therefore, tries to maintain a substantial capacity within SCT, using
its own capital intensive equipment and force account labor approach. SCT's
Maintenance Improvement Program has been designed to execute 75% of all
overlay by contract (25% by SCT force account) and 25% of seal coat by con-
tract (75% by SCT force account). In the past, most of SCT's force account
overlay work has been "cold mix," which, in general, is not considered ade-
quately durable for use on roads subject to appreciable traffic or heavy
loads. Under the Maintenance Improvement Program, SCT will purchase hot mix
plant and paving equipment. SCT intends to organize regional asphalt paving
groups, with 10 groups serving the 32 Centros. This will serve two basic and
critical problems, namely:



- 74 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
(a) to provide a transition period while confirming the
private contractors' ability to execute more work; and
(b) so that more periodic maintenance work can be executed during
1987-1991, to compensate for the recent maintenance shortfalls.
9.        SCT's long-range planning should be based on phasing out force
account work for periodic maintenance in favor of contracting and on
establishing an efficient force account routine maintenance organization.
This should entail gradual reduction of SCT's holdings in heavy equipment,
particularly crushers, asphalt plants, and pavers. To avoid excessive
buildup of the SCT equipment fleet, greater advantage should also be taken of
the equipment available for leasing from contractors and equipment dealers.
Although SCT considers such rental rates high, this appears to be due to
failure to recognize the real cost of Government ownership, such as
depreciation, interest on investment, etc. In fact, leasing costs are
comparable to the real costs of Government ownership (para 24).
10.       Equipment Replacement Program.  The minimum equipment requirements
will require the purchase of about US$54 million worth of equipment
(including radios), in order to provide a balanced fleet disposition in the
32 Centros. Unit prices for the equipment, in U.S. dollars, include all
applicable duties, taxes and delivery charges, and are based on prices as of
May 1987. Table 1 provides a breakdown of existing and required equipment,
together with estimated costs. The anticipated procurement expenditure
schedule is as follows:
Cash Flow
Year                   Amount
1987               'JS$ 8,000,000
1988                   13,000,000
1989                   13,000,000
1990                   10,000,000
1991                   10,000,000
Total               US$54,000,000
SCT will prepare an equipment purchasing schedule, based on priorities and
the equipment retirement program. The SCT schedule will show types of
equipment, quantities, and estimated cost for each of the five years.
II.       In determining the equipment requirements for this program, the
average annual scope of force account work for the federal road network of
42,000 kilometers was taken to be as follows:
Routine Maintenance  ................. ., . 42,000 km/year
Periodic Maintenance
(Seal Coat)                .................  6,000 km/year
Periodic Maintenance
(Overlay or Carpeta) ......................    850 km/year



-75-                              ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 9
Seal coats would consist of bituminous surface treatment with chips. Overlay
("carpeta") will generally be hot-mix asphalt concrete, laid by asphalt
pavers. It is anticipated that only a limited amount of cold-mix asphalt
will be laid with motorgraders used for mixing, spreading, and grading.
12.       The average Centro's annual work requirement for maintenance of the
federal highway system is as follows:
Routine Maintenance                 42,000 km         1,400 km
Periodic Maintenance (Seal)           6,000 km          200 km
Periodic Maintenance (Carpeta)          850 km            30 km
Calculations of quantities and equipment requirements are shown in a Working
Paper in the Project File.
13.       Replacement Parts.  For new equipment purchased under the
Maintenance Improvement Program, and parts and supplies for the current fleet
(less retirement), the following procurement schedule is recommended:
Cash Flow
New Equipment         Current Fleet         Total
Year                US$                    US$               US$
1987          (1%)      70,000             1,000,000      1,070,000
1988          (7%)  1,260,000              1,650,000     2,910,000
1989          (5%)  1,450,000              1,500,000     2,950,000
1990          (5%)  1,900,000              2,000,000     3,900,000
1991          (5%)  2,350,000              2,000,000     4,350,000
Totals         US$  7,030,000              8,150,000    15,180,000
14.       When large quantities of initial spare parts and/or components are
received for new equipment, they should be warehoused at two regional cen-
ters. These centers should be located in smaller cities with good communica-
tion and transportation links, for speedy delivery to the various Centros.
In the event of any reduction in equipment purchases, the above estimates for
parts for new equipment sholild be adjusted down in the same ratio as the
equipment.
15.       Tools and Shop Equipment.  In keeping with SCT's approach requiring
equipment rehabilitation and major repair work to be contracted out, the
requirement for shop tools and equipment is limited to those required to per-
mit SCT mechanics to keep equipment in good running order. Fuel injector
system testing and calibration, heavy machine tool work, and similar items
will be contracted out, and consideration also will be given to contracting
out such items as valve grinding, painting, wheel balancing, etc. As a
result, requirements for shop tools and equipment should not exceed about
US$25,000 per shop. In addition, a small stock of spare and replacement
parts should be provided at each   op for use in scheduled maintenance.  A
total of US$3.3 million has been included in the cost estimate: US$775,000
for tools and equipment and US$2.5 million to provide an initial stock of
appropriate spare parts.



- 76 -
Page 5 of 9
16.       Contracting Rehabilitation and Major Repair Work.  Although some
Centros have all their work done by private shops and others are attempting
to develop total in-house capability, the policy should be that all major
repair/rehabilitation works are done by contract with the private sector.
There are a large number of private shops in Mexico that specialize in the
rehabilitation of light and heavy equipment. Additionally, small private
shops have large inventories of rebuilt parts and components, particularly
for pickups and dump trucks. These parts are available for cash or cash/
exchange, carry warranties, and should be utilized.
17.       Rebuilt units (particularly track-type tractors, motor graders,
crushers, and semitruck tractors) will produce 50%-60% of original productive
life. The major contributing factor to the economy of utilizing rebuilt
equipment is the low cost of skilled labor. In the U.S.A., for example,
rebuilt direct labor is about 50% of total cos<    In Mexico, the labor cost
rate is about 30% of the total invoice, which makes rehabilitation
economically attractive.
18.       An SCT estimate prepared in 1986 gave the cost for repair/rehabili-
tation of 345 units in the 1986-1988 period to be Mex$1,480 million (details
of this estimate are in the in Project File). Based on this data, the estim-
ated cost of rehabilitating the 915 units of equipment shown in Table 1 would
be about US$8.0 million. Expenditures for this work during the five-year
Maintenance Improvement Program would be as follows:
Cash Flow
Year                                 Amount
1987                            US$ 1,000,000
1988                                 1,500,000
1989                                 2,000,000
1990                                 2,000,000
1991                                 1,500,000
Total                           US$ 8,000,000
C. Workshops
19.       Status and Condition.  SCT has a well-defined program for the
rehabilitation and new construction of workshop facilities. During recent
years, funds have been allocated for the purchase of land, improvements, and
new construction. Cost estimates for Centro and support workshops are shown
in Table 2 attached. The three types of Centro workshops have identical core
services arrangements (see Project File), and growth can be accommodated by
adding bays and not disturbing the basic layout and flow of work. Basic
considerations in shop design are:
(a) Fuels and lubricants should not be stored on the ground floor of
the central office building;
(b) The engine rebuilding room should be directly accessible from the
shop area;



- 77 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 9
(c)  There should be a service window opening directly into the main
shop area, for the delivery of parts and supplies;
(d)  The tool crib should be readily accessible to shop mechanics; and
(e)  The electrical repair shop should be located in the main shop
complex.
The schedule of estimated expenditures for shop construction and
rehabilitation is as follows:
Summary of the
Workshop Construction, Rehabilitation and Improvement Program
Estimated Costs
------------ (Us$)-
Construction and Rehabilitation of
31 central workshops
8 type "A"                          415,000
10 type "B"                          720,000
13 type "C"                          683,000
1,818,000            1,818,000
Construction and rehabilitation of
82 support workshops                          917,000               917,000
Total US$2,735,000
Cash Flow
Year                                Amount
1987                            US$ 600,000
1988                                 600,000
1989                                 600,000
1990                                 600,000
1991                                 335,000
Total                          US$2,735,000
D. Personnel and Training
20.       The training and upgrading of SCT mechanics and operators was dis-
cussed thoroughly with SCT officials at the State and Federal Government
levels. Observation of equipment operators indicates that even the 'old
timers" require an upgrading of skills. Additionally, the annual rate of
attrition is said to be 30%, since once a mechanic or operator is trained, he
can receive higher pay in the private sector. Training proposals are
developed in Annex 4.



- 78 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 9
E. Costs, Schedules and Proposed Program
21.       Local and Foreign Costs.  The majority of the equipment required
under the Maintenance Improvement Program is assembled or manufactured in
Mexlco. Some exceptions are track-type front-end loaders, asphalt pavers,
and specialized bridge inspection equipment. The foreign exchange
requirement for locally assembled bulldozers, motorgraders, and rubber-tired
loaders is about 65%. 'lTle foreign exchange requirement for locally assembled
or manufactured trucks, pickups, and farm-type tractors is about 50%. A
summary of estimated expenditures for the equipment and shop programs is
given in Table 3, attached.
F. Performance Indicators, Monitoring and Targets
22.       Progress, Equipment Availability, Downtime.  All 32 SCT Centros
should provide the required equipment status data, so that the SCT central
office can utilize the Equipment Status Report Form. Monthly reporting is
unnecessary, but summaries of these reports should be prepared on a quarterly
basis. Based on the summary of computer printout sheeLs developed from the
Status Reports, SCT should report the following information to the Bank
on an annual basis (see Annex 8):
(a) Equipment utilization for the reporting period, by type of
equipment and state;
(b) Percentage of fleet allocation to routine maintenance, periodic
maintenance, road construction, rural roads, and other;
(c) Equipment units removed from the fleet inventory, showing
disposition, such as scrapping, cannibalization, or sale;
(d) Equipment units removed from the fleet for rehabilitation should
be listed, showing estimated cost and actual cost, divided into
parts and labor; and
(e) SCT should maintain an ongoing "age profile" curve by type of
equipment, that reflects the changes brought about hy new pur-
chases, retirement program, and re-manufacturing. A suggested
age profile curve for dump trucks would appear as follows:
Typical Age Profile
liump Trucks
uj14
> 12                     __.
10 
X 8 20~Zne 4 U's'fu1*L&fe Tmatilm
'A    6
<'   4
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Annual Reporting Period
Curves should be updated semi-annually and copies should be submitted to the
Bank each year.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 9
G. Equipment Utilization
23.       Although it is normally desirable that the Government own and
operate some equipment, the question is how much and what types of equipment
the Government should own and operate. In some less developed countries, the
Government has no choice, since there may be none or very few private
contractors or available leasing equipment. This is certainly not the case
in Mexico, which has a large and efficient private construction industry
capable of road maintenance activities. Additionally, there are large and
small private repair shops which can provide the services required to
maintain and repair equipment. To assist the SCT in determining whether or
not to purchase equipment, it is necessary first to determine the anticipated
utilizat'on of a particular type of equipment. Normally, the construction
industry expects that equipment will be utilized an average of 75% of the
total hours available for work. The other 25% is attributed to inclement
weather, legal holidays, and lubrication and maintenance activities. It is
also generally accepted that it is more cost-efficient to lease equipment,
when its utilization is projected at less than 50%x
24,       The real cost of owning and operating a unit of equipment is not
much different between a government and a private contractor, although there
are argumentative cost factors, such as:
(a) A private contractor may accelerate his depreciation schedule,
which tends to increase his rental rate;
(b) A private contractor may pay more true interest than Government,
for the use of capital;
(c) Governments may self-insure, and, if taxes are applicable, it is
usually a paper debit to another governmental department;
(d) Private contractors normally pay their operators and staff at
higher rates than government;
(e) Governments normally have higher general overhead rates, but this
is always an illusive cost factor; and
(f) The bottom line is that the private contractor must have a
profit.
25.       The estimated costs of ownership and operation have been prepared
for a crawler-type tractor, end-loader, and dump truck (Table 4, attached).
This data is presented graphically in Figures 1 and 2 (also attached), and
shows the relationship of ownership vs. leasing over the range of 0% to 100%
utilization. In this case, 100% utilization is assumed to be the equivalent
of 8 hr/days x 260 days/year, equal to 2,080 hours per year. The comparison
curves (Figures 1 and 2) show that the Government should give serious consid-
eration to the leasing of equipment units, when anticipated or projected
utilization falls below 50%-60%. There are exceptions to this analysis (for
example, snowplows in the Northern States of the U.S.A.), but the economic
truth is that one cannot afford to own equipment if it is not utilized.



-80-                            ANNEX i
Page 9 of 9
26.       The equipment status form is the most practical means for SCT to
determine the utilization factor of the various units in their equipment
fleet. Once this data is available, cost-effective decisions can be made as
to which units should be purchased by SCT and which units shotlld be leased.
These data should be taken into consideration in preparing the annual
equipment acquisition program referred to in Annex 7.
H.  Spare Parts Control
27.       In para. 14, it is recommended that SCT maintain two regional ware-
houses for the inventory control of spare parts and supplies.  Under this
arrangement, individual Centros would submit requisitions to their assigned
warehouse, and the warehouse will generally be responsible for obtaining any
item not in stock. The warehouses should be interconnected by mini-computer
tie lines, with a back-up Kardex system showing maximum and minimum stock and
current unit prices. Centro workshops should only carry fast moving parts,
such as filters and fan belts. Each month the warehouses will submit a
report to the SCT central office showing total issues and value by Centro:
total value of parts received from suppliers and/or manufacturers, and month
end total items in stock and current value.
T. Conclusions
28.       The equipment maintenance and management system within the SCT
Centro organizations is considered above a'rerage, even though much of the
fleet--with a replacemerit value in the range of US$200 million--is approach-
ing obsolescence, due principally to the lack of an annual or biannual
retirement/replacement program. Eve. so, light and heavy vehicles, loaders,
dozers, motor graders, and support equipment that range from 15 to 20 years
old are in remarkably good condition, both in physical appearance and
mechanical efficiency.
29.       The rehabilitation of older units through contracts with private
shops and by in-house force account has been effective, and has extended the
normal life of prime equipment by at least 50%. This program of rehabilita-
tion should be continued on a selective basis, but with more emphasis on the
utilization of written contracts with the private sector.
30.       The mijor constraint in the analysis of the fleet equipment re-
quirements is that deadlined, cannibalized, or scrap equipment has not been
identified and removed from the total fleet inventory. The new computerized
equipment fleet status report must be implemented. This will provide the
data required to purge the fleet inventory of dead and/or scrap units. This
new list of effective fleet units is then the starting place for a replace-
ment and rehabilitation program. SCT should prepare this list of effective
units and identify by fleet num'ber the equipment that should be considered
for rehabilitation.
31.       With respect to SCT's road maintenance equipment fleet, the
Project includes: (a) US$35.0 million for new equipment including associated
spare parts; (b) US$8.0 million for major repairs and rehabilitation of
selected items of equipment; and US$6.0 million for workshop construction,
rehabilitation, and improvement, purchase of shop equipment and tools, and
provision of an initial stock of spare parts for scheduled maintenance.
April 1587



HIK MADW PREr
Mncmlm                  bi1c ini1nd_           Dbet lclwdd ikn Project         Inclueid In
bOal        Retirant    Effective    Current Fleet   Scheduled          EIRng        t Udt bst                  Total                   Total             Poject
Item an  Dscriptih                    scr Qareat      Pnrm            Fleet      Ualer 4 Years       for       1aquxsa         U.S.                      bst                      (bat               Ibtal Ct
Fleet       1987-1991                     of Age       Iahabilitatian  (1987-1991)  DDIlars
(,idta)       (Ueits)       (Undts)        (itres)        (niWts)         (units)                  (Urdts)   (U3S$ '000s) (ltbts)  (tt3  '000s)  (tUits) (US$ '(OaS)
1. Pid                                           1,537             Soo          737           111           300             992         7,400          581       4,299         581       4,299          -           -
2.   h.w  Ter9a                                  1,237           I,0m           237            23           221             527        21,6(0          283       6.112         283       6,112          -            -
3.  DA Traem  - 8,000 itae                         219             180           39            36            45              124       18,40D           43         791           -           -         43          791
4. Asplolt DIstributom                             237             176           61            60            45               93       36,2tl            -            -          -           -          -            -
S.  lot  Gers - 140 NP                             438      2C      0           238            40            40              124       90,000           44       3,960           -           -         44        3,9S0
6.  ,m38, Tmack-type> 2013                          71              60           11             -            16               31      110,00D           15        1,650          -           -          15       1,650
7.  Lad., lad-type Zv3                             206             150           56             -            24              124       76.800          100       7,680           -           -         IOD       7,6&(
8.    uldur, 140 I?                                226             170           56             2            28               50      110,00W           50        5,50D          -           -          50       5.500
9.  Ballet,    m   3-5 Ton                     _      _      _      _                     -             -                   -             -             -           -            -                             -
10. b1t,  1  8-10-To                                128              78           50            66            32              93        38,000            -           -           -           _-                      -
11.   mpor,  Vibrati                                  -               -            -            -              -              31       80,D00            31       2.480           -           -         31        2,480
U2. Omeect  , Prastic Tired                          91              32           59            58            32              62        58,0W             -           -                                  -            -
13. Tractor,  Ariculture                             88              77           11             5            16             124        10,000          103        1,030        103       1,030                -
14. '1,Ik  lAtlCSt                                   60              20           40            -              -              30       25,000            30         750          30         750          -           -
15. *Truck, Vtth:nIc                                120              40     e o                 -              -              30       30,000            30         900          -            -         30          900
16. Paer, tA#mt                                       8               -            8            8              -              10      I1o,o0W             2         2C            -           -          2          200
17.   Sibl    Plamt, 20 Tce                          35              35            -            -              -              10        70,000           10         700           -           -          10         700
18.  isnpt Plmat, 20 I                               35              35            -            -              -              10        70,000           10         70D           -           -          10         7r1)
19. AWpte .SCI  Pllit                                 5               5            -            -              -              31        34,000           31        1,054          -           -         31        1.054
20. SrIpe Paint Units                                18              12            6             -             -               15       23,400           15          351          -           -          15         351
21. TWuck, Flat  ad 3 U/2 Tb                        222             157           65            -             40              155       18,00W          115       2,070         115       2,070          -            -
22. Tuks, Flat Red 8 Ton                           175             t75            -            -             40              124       22,000           84        1,848         84       1,848          -            -
23. Tnudat, S5--Ttor                                 67              55           12            12            12              40        60,0D            16         960          16         960           -           -
24. TIalera, Sad                                     53              49            4            4              6              31        18,0W            21          378         21         378          -            -
25. Tt1ile, tA- t -32,001 irem                       47               3           44           44              -               10            -            -            -          -           -          -            -
26.  Trail1s, A sgate-35Tw                            -               -            -             -                                                 -           -            -                            -            -
27. Asit Patchi g tt                                208             134           74            74             -              105       50,0W0           31        1,550          -           -          31       1,550
28. Orpactor, Se1ka11{                               34              22           12            12             8                      -             -                       -                             -           -
29. ApS    t, Pug MiU1                                3               -            3             3             -                      -             -                 -           -                       -           -
30.- Pup, Alt                                       172             150           22            16            10              62         7,030           36          252          -                      36         252
31. GwArttor,                     2                                 60           32             1             -              62        10,00W           61         610           -           -         61          610
32. Mttil R@io                                    1,218             400          816            -              -            1.218        1,400          400         560           -           -        400          560
33. R io, &Ba Statimn                               321             100          221             -             -             321         3,000          100          330          -           -         100        330
34. 3mp Utbrication ntt                              60              29           31             -             -              62         6,000           31          186          -           -          31         186
ilj     M qRRl 5,892                                   3,904         1,988          575            915           3,162                      2,273      46,871       1,233      17,447      1,040      29,424
Spare Parts for Nen F*utwm Okay (15S)                                                                                                                        7,030                   2,617                   4,416
tOW  for tiw  Ekpment aid  rltl  Spare Parts                                                                                                           53,901                  20,054                  33,840
Say USS54 niulln                            Say t1SS35 million
*Quatty to pucae  I    to anfcn idth SCr _eurens.
(blculatians for  uipunit requirmts are inxcl. In a kb*siW Paper in the Project FMle.
Noe:  Totals for bluma 1-6 dD nt lnclus  raBo equipment.
Sre:  scr O      Bk Staff
Ap  387



- 82 -                         ANNEX 3
Ta-ble 2
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
WORKSHOP CONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMNT PROOM
(1987-1991)
A. CENTRO WORKSHOPS
TYPE 'A' WORKSHOPS
Centro                              Estimated Cost
(US$)
Chlapas                                   100,000
Chihuahua                                   5,000
Guerrero                                   10,000
Jalisco                                    85,000
Michoacan                                 100,000
Oaxaca                                      5,000
Tanaulipas                                100,000
Veracruz                                   10,00
Sub-Total         415,000
TYPE '5" WORKSHOPS
Bata California                           120,000
Baja California Sur                        80,000
Campeche                                   10,000
Coahuila                                   90,000
Durango                                    25,000
Nuevo Leon                                100,000*
Puebla                                    100,000*
San Lais Potosi                            15,000
Sonora                                     80,000
Zacatecas                                 100,000*
Sub-Total         720,000
TYPE 'C' WORKSHOPS
Aguascaliente                              15,000
Colima                                     80,000
Guanajuato                                 25,000
Queretaro                                  90,000*
Mexico                                     55,000
Quintana Roo                                3,200
Morelos                                    80,000
Nayarit                                    80,000
Sinaloa                                    15,000
Tabasco                                    35,000
Hidalgo                                    35,000
Tlaxcala                                   90,000*
Yucatan                                    80,000
Sub-Total         683,200
TOTAL (A)                               1,818,200
B.  SUPPORT WORKSHOPS                                    917.000 1/
TOTAL                               US$2,735,200
1/ Details are shown In the Project File.
*   Including land.
Sources SCT
November 1986



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summary
Maintenance Equipment and Workshop Program
(US$'000)
Item/Year             1987       1988       1989      1990      1991    Totals
Procurement of New Road
Maintenance Equipment          7,000      11,000    11.000      9,000    9,000   47,000
Procurement of Spare Parts
New Equipment                   70       1,260     1,450      1,900    2,350    7,030
Used Equipment               1,000       1,650     1,500      2,000    2,000    8,150
Workshop Construction,
Rehabilitation and
Improvement Program              600         600       600        600      335    2,735
Rehabilitation/Overhaul
of Current Fleet               1,000       1,500     2,000      2,000    1,350    7,850
Purchase of Shop Tools 1/        250         250       275                           775
Totals 2/      9,920      16,260    16,825    15,500   15,035   73,540
1/ Including Weigh-in-motion equipment. See Annex 5.
2/ Prices do not include contingencies.
Source; SCT and Bank staff.
April 1987



- 84 -                                      AN= 3
Table 4
HIW   MtfW    rFJC
am af nnTE iz w
Cost of 0(unhg and Oper:stir P4tp.ent
(US$
Grler TLype          IWheal oaer          1amy Truck edth
lfactor dith        with 3m3 Gaeml         6mn3 Am  Bdy &
Hyd. RLeldozer        hrpose bodcet          D.ee &wie
A. Neeacturer                                Osterpillar            Caterpillar                  Ford
B, Model lNber                                      D6-H                 950-B                   8000
C. Nuinal rsesw                                   165 HP                 155 HP                205 HP
D. Now List Pries (U.S.S)                       $135,000               $136,000               $43,000
E. lire Size                                           -             20.5 X 25              9.CO X 20
F. l're (Track) COst                              $9,000     4 X 2,400 - $9,600      6 X 250 - $1,500
G. Net Cost                                     $126,000               $126,400               $41,500
H. Oepreciation Period (Years)                   8 years               7 years               10 years
I.  eprecdation Feriod (Hours)                    16,640                 14,560                20,80D
J. Utilization 9 75 (Hbors)                       12,480                 10,920                15,600
K. Itilizration per year                           1,560                  1,560                 1,560
L. Residtul Value                          (25%) 31,500           (2at) 25,280           (15%) 6,225
M. Net Cost Lesg Residual Value                 $103,500               $101,120               $35,275
Owdiug Costs (Hburly)
Depredation M                                   6.22                  6.95                   1.70
J
Interests 9 12Z                                 4.36                  4.47                   1.12
Inwuranes and Tames                              .73                    .75                   .19
TOUAL atamaIP awST                      $11.31                 Si2.17                 S3101
Operatirg Cost (Hbmrly)
Fuel                                            4.00                  3.75                   5.60
Libe 011, Ftlters, Grease                       0.46                  0.52                   0.33
llres (Tracks)                                  3.00                   3.85                  1.50
Spare Parts                                     5.25                  4.60                   1.85
Sal1 Tools, Supplies                             .50                    .40                   .20
Operator                                        8.00                  8.00                   6.50
Operator Benefits                               2.00                   2.0D                  1.62
iTAL CFERATS csr                        23.21                  23.12                 17.60
TOTAL O(NRSHIP AND (PERATIIC a)ST              34.52                  35.29                 20.61
GERAL CIEAD (35%)                              12.08                  12.35                  7.21
TUrAL Oarr (ss PROFIT)                         46.60                 47.64                  27.82
PROFIT (20%)                                    9.32                  9.53                   5.56
HURLY FNTL RAE                                $54.92                $57.17                 S33.38
(lOmparative Analyss
Hbrs of
Utilization          Utiltzation                                     US$ Per Year
Per Year               Per Year             Crawler Trartor or Loader                  Dbp TFd
(2)              Gbvt.               Reat              Gbvt.          Rent
0                    0              46,780                 -               2O,440             0
500                   25              58,385              27,460             29,240        16,690
1,000                   50              69,990              54,920             38,040        33,380
1,500                   75              81,595              82,380             46,940        50,070
2,000                  100              93,200              109,840            55,640        66,760



- 85 -
ANNEX 3
Figure 1
OWNERSHIP VS REINTAL
COST COMPARISON CURVE
I
I               /
RENTAL
so gOLESS EXPENSIVE
S                                      /      I  OWNERSHIP
40                           /EN iLESS EXPENSIVE
/            ~~~~~~~~~~I
/                     I
/                       I
/~~~ I
//                               I
 / , ,, _ ,,~~~~~ RENTA
x   ~ 0               25              0              75             100
HOURS   0              Soo             1000           1500           2000
BULLDOZER OR FRONT LOADER UlTUZATION



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
Figure 2
OWNERSHIP VS RENTAL
COST COMPARISON CURVE
70 
s                                  I    /
4                /   /      ~~~~~~~OWNE:RSHIP
L.SS EXPNSE                SIVE
30@/
a
g0                              /  I
/ /  O WNERS~~~~~OWERNPI
/~~~~~~ I
/~~~~~~ II
o t , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RENTAL_
'OURS  0           Soo         1080 /300                200
DUMP TRUCK MUZATON



-87 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road and Equipment Maintenance Training Program
I. Training of Road Maintenance Personnel
1.        The economic and physical problems adversely affecting highway
maintenance are further exacerbated by major deficiencies in the DGCOP
training system. The Directorate's training unit has been operational for
more than five years, and, In 1986, reached about 1,400 managerial,
engineering, technical, equipment operators, and road maintenance personnel.
However, the unit's training program has several significant deficiencies,
both quantitative and qualitative in nature, especially in the areas of heavy
equipment operation and maintenance, on-the-job training of road maintenance
work crews, upgrading the performance of field foremen and work crew chiefs,
bridge maintenance, road and bridge planning and programming, and in its
capabilities in monitoring, evaluation, and feedback in the training system.
2.        On the positive side, the training unit has a very capable and
experienced Director and acceptable physical (largely new) training
facilities in the eight regional highway maintenance centers, where formal
and a combination of formal and limited on-the-job training will take place.
The practical production-size equipment, which will be upgraded and
supplemented under the project, will provide real production-based training
experiences for all trainees during on-theF-job training. Organizationally,
the training unit depends directly from the General Director of DGCOP of SCT,
and thus has easy access to him.
3.        To help the DGCOP in correcting the above deficiencies, a
significant training component has been included in the project.
II. The Project's Training Component Objectives and Description
Objectives
4.        The major objectives of the project's training component are to:
(a) Strengthen the performance capabilities of highway maintenance
personnel through upgrading of the specialized training
activities of the existing "training unit" during 1987-91, to
reach about: (i) 1,200 maintenance mechanics and 4,500 heavy
equipment operators; (ii) 3,000 field work crew members;
(iii) 300 road and bridge maintenance foremen; (iv) 150 road,
bridge and equipment maintenance engineers; and (v) 80 managerial
level engineers (Table 1, attached).
(b) Upgrade the training unit's efficiency and effectiveness by:
(i) strengthening monitoring, evaluation and feedback in the
training system; (ii) better integration of formal and on-the-job
training activities with actual road and bridge maintenance and
repair; and (lll) procurement of priority training equilment.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
Description of Training Component
5.        With Bank assistance and with valuable inputs from several of
DGCOP's central management staff, Centro resident engineers, and general
superintendents of maintenance of selected highway maintenance centers, the
DGCOP training unit has developed a revised training program to address the
aforementioned personnel deficiencies. With the exception of the semi-skilled
field work crews, the educational level of the highway maintenance personnel
is of a sufficiently high level to assure a beneficial level of participation
in both formal and on-the-job training.
6.        All managers, resident engineers, and general superintendents of
maintenance are graduate engineers (with only minor exceptions), with
considerable experience in road maintenance. The foremen and repair shop
superintendents are generally experienced technicians with post-secondary
technical training, and have several years of successful experience in road
maintenance or road equipment repair and maintenance. The skilled mechanics
have normally completed mechanical maintenance training courses in one of the
private or public vocational training schemes, and have an educational level
equivalent to about 10 years of schooling. Heavy equipment operators
generally have a slightly lower level of formal schooling, but one which,
combined with their considerable experience, is sufficient to assure their
successful participation in largely on-the-job training programs. The
work-crew chiefs and the field work-crew members generally have relatively
low levels or no formal education or training, with 6 to 8 years of education
generally being the maximum. However, as their training under the project
would be strictlv or-the-job in nature, they can benefit considerab'y from
such traiiting.
7.        Training would generally be presented in 40-hour modules, and,
where practical, would include a minimum of 252 on-the-job training
activities, which would be carried out in each of the 31 Centros1/. The
modular short-course training activities would be conducted in eight
appropriately located and equipped DGCOP road maintenance centers, which are
easily and quickly accessible to adjacent States to facilitate economies in
travel costs for trainees (Table 2, attached).
8.        With the completion of new construction currently underway and due
for completion in 1987, the physical space facilities for training in the
eight regional centers is quite acceptable. However, specialized training
equipment of these centers and that required In the other 23 maintenance
centers and the central training unit is inadequate, and some short-course
training modules require upgrading. Consequently, financing would be
provided for supplemental furniture and office equipment for the central
training unit and the eight training centers; audiovisual equipment and
training aids for the eight major training centers; and a more limited amount
for the other 23 maintenance centers to support on-the-job training; and,
specialized training equipment for the eight training centers and for the
central training unit (Table 2, attached). Financing will also be provided
for the further development of the short-course training modules and their
Implementation during the 1987-91 period, including the itinerant training of
trainers in each of the centers, for carrying out Informal on-the-lob
training and a small amount of short study/observation trips abroad, and
1/ Excluding Veracruz Sur.



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
in-country seminars on training, evaluation, and feedback for central
training unit staff.
III. Organization and Implementation of the Training Program
9.        The Training Unit.  The training unit answers directly to the
Director General of DGCOP. The Head of the training unit is a senior
engineer with many years of experience as a highway engineer and as a
director of training. He is assisted by a young highway engineer having
experience in training and a number of support personnel. The unit would be
strengthened under the project through the addition of an experienced senior
staff member to monitor and evaluate training programs (para. 10).
10.       Training Program.  The training program is organized on a short-
course modular basis. Training is generally presented in modules of 40 hours
over a five-day period. However, a few modules of only 20 hours are
planned. Multiples of two or more 40-hour modules would be used for special
topics. Training program content is based upon occupational analysis by
consultants, with the assistance of senior field engineers and/or advances in
road maintenance technology. Outline descripticns of the training courses
are given in Section VIII below, Course module development and presentation
is done by consultant engineers and training firms/institutions. Details of
the training program and numbers of trainees to be reached by year are
presented in Table 1, attached.
11.       The DGCOP has had very successful experience during recent years in
obtaining a higher level of instructor abilities and pertinent experiences,
through contracting of nearly all training to consultant training firms and
organizations. Consequently, it is intended that this practice will continue
(see Terms of Reference, paras. 18-21). However, as an institutional
development measure, the training capability of the training unit would be
increased through the addition of a senior staff member to monitor and
evaluate training programs and to coordinate a feedback system for further
improvement of the training program. Outline terms of reference for this
senior staff member are shown in paras. 18 and 19. Through this, resident
road maintenance engineers and equipment maintenance superintendents would
receive about 20 hours of instruction in training evaluation and feedback.
IV. Round-Table Seminars
12.       As a part of the overall training program, SCT will expand the use
of the successful Round-Table Seminars begun under the Second Highway Sector
Project (Loan 2428-ME) to include maintenance of the federal highway system.
These seminars presently are held semi-annually, with Bank staff
participation, to provide an opportunity for SCT Resident Engineers (assigned
to various Centros SCT) who are responsible for rural road construction and
maintenance to meet in a central location under conditions conducive to
informal discourse and communication.
13.       These seminars have proven to be very useful and popular, allowing
Resident Engineers from widely separated parts of Mexico to exchange views,
share expertise and compare notes. The seminars have also provided an
opportunity to disseminate information concerning new technology and improved
planning methods in an unstructured setting.



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
14.       Under this Project, similar Round-Table Seminars will be held two
or three times each year at various locations within Mexico. The attendees
will be the Resident Engineers from selected Centros SCT who bear
responsibility for the maintenance of federal roads and bridges. All costs
of the seminars, except salaries and overhead or administrative costs, will
be financed as training under this project.
V. Training Targets, Monitoring and Reporting
15.       The training targets by subject area and numbers of trainees by
year are detailed in Table 1. A summary of accomplishments will be reported
to the Director General of DGCOP and to the Bank on a quarterly basis. The
training, monitoring and evaluation specialist will assist consultants in
preparing and presenting the instructional module on "monitoring and
evaluation of training" to the supervisory personnel of the maintenance
centers. He will also attend all of the training sessions, for at least one
module of each of the different subject matter areas presented each year. He
will then jointly critique with the instructors the strengths and weaknesses
of the presentation, and discuss possible means of improvement. At
appropriately later intervals, he will assist the respective supervisors in
the highway maintenance center in evaluating the observed results of the
training, as they affect field performance of the training participants and
their field subordinates. A narrative type of report on the qualitative and
quantitative improvements seen. as a result of the training would be made to
the Director General of DGCOP and the Bank on an annual basis.
VI.  Major Training Equipment Needs
16.       The following are the major items of training equipment zequired
for the Central Training Unit, the eight regional training centers, and the
other state maintenance centers. These lists are based upon discussions with
SCT,
(a)  Central Training Unit
Estimated
No. Needed                        Item                        Total Base Costs
Equipment:
2              Light Station Wagons @ US$9,000                US$ 18,000
1              PC Computer and Peripheral Equipment                4,000
1              Overhead Projector, wi h Writing Roll                 300
1              Video Camera and Recorder--Portable                 1,800
1              Color Video Monitor, 21-inch                          600
1              Video Camera Tripod                                   100
1              Projector Screen 50" x 50"                            100
1              Projector-35 mm, carousel type, 300 watts             600
1              Camera-35 mm, Regular & Wide Angle Lens               350
1              Photocopy Machine                                   1,800
1              Mimeograph Machine                                    800
2              Electric Office Typewriter                          1,600
3              Office Calculator, Printing type                      450
Miscellaneous Items                                  500
Subtotal                                   US$ 31,000



- 91 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
Estimated
No. Needed                         Item                       Total Base Costs
Furniture:
1             Office Desk, 5-drawer                                  500
1             Office Armchair, Swivel type                           300
1             Office Armchair                                        150
1             PC Computer Desk and Chair                             500
2             Secretarial Desks                                      450
2             Secretarial Chair                                      300
2             Storage Cabinet, 2 door metal,
36" w X 18" d X 78" h.                              600
2             File Cabinets, 4-drawer metal, legal size,
locks                                               600
Miscellaneous Items and Supplies                      200
Subtotal                                  US$ 3,600
(b) Regional Training Centers (Eight)
Estimated
No. Needed                         Items                      Total Base Costs
Equipment:
8               Overhead Projector, with writing roll          US$ 2,400
8               Projector Screen, 50" x 50"                           800
8               Projector-35 mm, carousel type, 300 watts           4,800
8               VHS Video Cassette Recorder/Player                  4,800
8               Color Video Monitor, 21-inch                        4,800
8               Photocopy Machine                                  14,400
8              Miscellaneous Items                                  2,000
Subtotal                                   US$ 40,400
Furniture:
192             Trainee Tablet-Armchair,
stacking typing @$80                        US$ 15,360
8             Instructor's Podium                                    800
16             File Cabinets, 4-drawer metal,
legal size, with lock                            4,800
8              Storage Cabinets, 2-door metal,
36" x 18" x 78"                             US$  2,400
8             Demonstration Tables, folding
30" x 72"                                         1,040
8             Projector Tables, with place for
teachers' notes                                   1,200
8             Electric Office Typewriter                           6,400
8              Secretarial Desk and Chair                          4,000
Subtotal                                 US$ 36,000



- 92 -
ANNEX 4
Page o of 9
Estimated
No. Needed                        Item                       Total Base Costs
(c) Other State Maintenance Centers (23)
Equipment
23              Overhead Projectors @ US$250                   US$ 5,750
23              Projector Screens, 50" x 50"                       2,300
23              Projector Tables                                   3,450
Miscellaneous Items                                5,500
Subtotal                                US$ 17,000
Audiovisual and Training Aids
17.       (Stocked in Central Training Unit for circulation among the 8
Regional Training Centers as per "training course schedule.")
1 set each        A selection of pertinent materials             US$ 40,000
(Video Cassettes-35 mm Slide Sets-
Overhead Transparencies-Charts-
Printed Materials, Etc.)
TOTAL - Estimated Base Costs                             US$ 168,000
VII. Terms of Reference
A. New Training Evaluation Staff Member for Training Unit of DGCOP of SCT
18.       Qualifications and Experience
(a) University degree in civil or mechanical engineering, with a
minimum of five-years experience in highway maintenance if a
civil engineer, or in mechanical maintenance if a mechanical
engineer. As this would be a senior staff position, he should
also have a minimum of 10-years experience in training and the
management of training programs. He should also have three-five
years experience and training in the evaluation of training
programs and in the operation of formal feedback systems, for the
improvement of training through the information gained from the
evaluation process;
(b) Outgoing personality and proven ability to quickly develop
rapport with professional and non-professional staff of the
highway maintenance centers; and
(c) Good analytical skills and writing ability.



- 93 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
19.       Responsibilities
The new training and evaluation specialist would be responsible
for:
(a)  Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of training courses;
(b) Facilitating the evaluation of all training courses, especially
the informal on-the-job training; he would prepare and conduct a
short (20-hour) seminar on training evaluation and feedback,
together with the various resident engineers and maintenance
superintendents. This course should be conducted in late 1987 or
early 1988; and
(c) Coordinating the feedback system, to assure that the information
gained from the evaluation of training is fed back into the
training system, including the consultant trainers, so as to
upgrade the quality of instruction in future courses.
B.  General Training Consultent
20.       The General Consultant will prepare the Terms of Reference for
individual consultants required for preparation of new or for major revisions
in training short-course modules.
Qualifications, Experience, and Assistance
(a) University degree in Civil Engineering, with a minimum of
15-years experience in highway maintenance, of which at least
5 years was at the senior field management level. Experience in
teaching at the university highway engineering and maintenance
level preferable. Teaching of highway maintenance courses at the
in-service training level to resident engineers desirable;
(b)  Good analytical skills and writing ability in Spanish language is
required;
(c) He must be able to obtain pertinent assistance, at his own
expense (as allowed for under fee amount), of qualifie'd and
experienced mechanical engineers, for the preparation of the
terms of reference of consultants for the equipment operation and
maintenance short-course modules.
21.       Responsibilities
This consultant would be responsible for preparing the individual
terms of reference for the required consultants and assisting in the
preparation of short-course outlines for the following new or significantly
revised training course modules:
(a) Bridge Maintenance Planning and Programming (Engineers);
(b) Bridge and Road Maintenance (Foremen);



- 94 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
(c)  Road Maintenance (Engineers);
(d)  Road Planning and Programming (Res. Gens. & DGCAP Managers);
(e)  Road Planning and Programming (Res. Engineers);
(f)  Budaet Planning and Control (Rei. Engrs. and Mnt. Supts.); and
(g)  Organization and Management of Machinery Maintenance (Gen.
Supts. and Supts.).
VIII. Outlines of Training Courses
22.       Short outlines of the major training courses are given below:
Course:      Maintenance and Lubrication of Heavy Equ'pment
For:         Mechanics Employed in the Centro Equipment Yards
Objective:   To provide participants with the kind of instruction that will
enable them to be accurate and efficient in the maintenanze,
repair, lubrication, and diagnostic examination of components of
heavy equipment. Also, to provide treining in the correct
interpretation of lubrication and maintenance manuals, and to
acquaint them with the principles underlying the functioning of
the basic components of the heavy equipment they maintain. The
course will include a review of the operations that constitute
effective preventive maintenance.
Course:      Heavy Equipment Operation
For:         Equipment Operators
Objective:   To give participants practical experience in correct operation
of the equipment employed in road maintenance work. The various
items of equipment will be identified, their functioning
explained, and the maintenance th-ey require detailed.
Participants would also receive basic instruction in training
skills to enable them to give other operators on-the-lob
training.
Course:      Organization and Management of Equipment Maintenance
For:         Equipment General Superintendents and Superintendents
Objective:   To provide participants with training in ways to improve their
performance in the field of interpersonal relationships.
Specifically, to help equipment maintenance supervisors to
develop and maintain leadership ability, more effective
communication skills, and better problem analysis and
organizational skills, vis-a-vis both their superiors and their
subordinates.
Course:      Training Evaluation and Monitoring
For:         Supervisory Staff (All Categories)
Objective:   To provide participants with necessary skills to work with
consultants in preparing and presenting training courses, so as
to eventually enable them to assume the responsibility for
continuing the training coursese The course should also prepare
participants to analyze the content of the vPrious courses and
recommend adjustments, to better suit the courses to the needs
of the program and the background of the participants.



-95-                            ANNEX 4
Page   o f 9
Course:      Bridge Maintenance Planning and Programming
For:         Resident Engineers for Bridge Maintenance
Objective:   To provide participants with training in planning and
programming bridge maintenance; the preparation of bridge
condition surveys; and the instruction of bridge and road
maintenance foremen in techniques of bridge inspection and
maintenance.
Course:      Bridge and Road Maintenance
For:         Bridge and Road Maintenance Foremen
Objective:   To provide participants with training in the organization and
execution of road and bridge maintenance, and instruction in
methods of developing and carrying out training on-the-job for
sub-foremen and maintenance workers.
Course:      Road Maintenance
For:         Maintenance Engineers
Objective:   To acquaint participants witb and introduce standards and
procedures likely to result in higher work productivity. The
course will also give participants a clearer understanding of
how SCT regional highway maintenance authorities are organized
and the extent of their responsibilities, and will provide the
theoretical and practical tools required to enable the engineers
to eventually serve as Resident Maintenance Engineers.
Course:      Road Maintenance Planning and Programming
For:         DGCOP Managers, Resident Generals, and Resident Engineers
Objective:   To provide participants with the essential elements of planning
and programming road maintenance work, including the basics of
computer use in highway maintenance activities.
Course:      Road Maintenance Planning and Programming
For:         DGCOP Managers, Resident Generals, and Resident Engineers
Obiective:   As a continuation of the foregoing program, to familiarize
participants with the methods for drawing up a work plan for
highway maintenance, together with its accompanying program and
budget. Aim is to improve the way available resources and
administered, and to achieve greater productivity and efficiency
in highway and bridge maintenance operations.
Course:      Budget Planning and Control
For:         DGCOP Managers, Resident Generals, and Resident Engineers
Objective:   To provide participants with additional instructio.n in the
preparation of programs and supporting budgets, end in methods
of cost analysis and control techniques.
IX.  Cost of Training Program
23.       The total cost of the training component is estimated at US$1.4
million.  The foreign costs are estimated at about US$0.5 million, and
represent about 35% of total costs.  Detailed costs by type of expenditure
and estimated expenditures by years are shown in Table 3, attached.
April 1987



ANN   4
MEXICO                                                           Table I
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sumary of Short-Course Mbdular Training
Ntmber of Modules and Participants
Subject Area e/                                           1987         1988         1989            1990       1991        Totals
(In modules generally of 40 hours)      Participants          M    P       M      P     M       P       M      P    M    P      M       P
Maintenance of Heavy Equipment a/    Mechanics                  30   300    30    300    60      600    60    600    30   300    210   2,100
Heavy Equipment Operation b/          Operators                 50   500    50    500   150   1,500   150  1,500   100 1,000    500   5,000
Org. & Mngt. of Equipment Mnt.        Gen. Supts. & Supts.       1    20     1     20      2      40     2     40      1    20      7     14O
Training Evaluation & Monitoring      Supervisors                3    60     -      -      -       -     -      -     -      -      3      60
Bridge Mnt. Planning & Programming   Et4gineers                  2    30     2     30      2      30     2     30     2    30      10     150
Bridge and Road Maintenance c/        Foremen                    4    60     4     60     4       60     4     60     4    60      20     300
Road Maintenance                      Engineers                  4    60     4     60      4      60     4     60     4    SO      20     300
Road Planning & Programming(20 hrs.) Res. Engrs.& DGCOP Mgrs. 2    40        2     40      -       -     -      -     -      -      4      80
Road Planning & Programming(20 hrs.) Res. Engineers              2    40     2     40     -        -     -      -     -      -      4      80
Budget Planning and Control           Res Engrs. & Mnt. Supts.  2    40      3     60      3      60     -      -     -      -      8     160
Totals in Formal and Combination
Formal & On-the-Job Modules:                                 100 1,150    98  ,,110   225   2,350   222  2,290   141 1,470    786   8,370 d/
Informal On-the-Job Training          Road Mnt. Workers            1,500        1,500          1,500        1,500        1,500          7,500 dl
Grand Total Personnel Trained:                                   2,650        2,610          3,850        3,790        2,970         15,870 d/
a/  This would reach about 50X of the total mechAnics in each of the peak years.
b/  Training to be held in 8 regional centers and includes formal instruction, wite  field demonstrations for each type of heavy equipment
operators in groups oi 10. Key operators would return to their home centers an then, with the periodic assistance of itinerant
specialist trainers, would train other operators on-the-job.
c/  These foremen would return to their home centers and provide informal on-the-job tra t-ng to their 'work-crew chiefs' who, in turn
would provide on-the-job training to workers.
d/ These totals do not represent these numbers of separate individuals as many would have participated In more than on-- module of
training.
e/ See Section VII for outline TOR for training consultant (course development) and Section VIII for outline descriptions of course
content.
NOTES:
1. Number of operators based upon an inventory of about 6,000 picces of heavy maintenance equipment for which 4,500 separate operators
required (75%), of which about one-quarter to one-third would receive training annually during three peak years. About 500 would
receive a second module of training.                                                                                                              ,-'a
2. X - Modules
3. P = Participants
Source: SCT and Bank staff.
April 1987



ANNEX 4
Table 2
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Location of Major Training Centers l/
City                                                  State
Hermosillo                                            Sonora
Durango                                               Durango
Guadalajara                                           Jalisco
San Luis Potosi                                       San Luis Potosi
Queretara                                             Queritaro
Cuernavaca                                            Morelos
Oaxaca                                                Oaxaca
Merida                                                Yucatan
1/ Formal training centers, located in the Highway Maintenance Centers which
have more appropriate physical facilities and which are quickly and
easily accessible by car from adjacent states.  These eight centers would
serve all the 31 Centros* for formal and combination formal and on-the-job
training courses. Strictly on-the-job training would take place in each
of the 31 Centros.
*   Excluding Veracruz Sur.
Source: SCT
Novemb,er 1986



- 98 -
AMNEX 4
Table 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Training Program Cost Summary 1/
(US$ '000.)
Local    Foreign    Total            2
Type of ExpendiZure              Costs      Costb      Costs       Foreign
-      (US$ '000)    ----       Exchange
Training Equipment:
Furniture and Office              30         20          50           40
Audio-Visual & Trng. Aids          14        56          70           80
Special Training Eqpt.            10         38         48            80
Sub-total:                  54        114        168            68
Training Courses 2/
Formal plus On-the-Job 3/        686        294         980           30
Informal On-the-Job    _/         54          6         60            10
Itinerant Training       /       112         48         160           30
Sub-total:                 852        348      1,200            29
Study Tours (Short)
L,ocal Staff Training               8         6          14           40
?oreign Observations Tours         2         16          18           90
Sub-total:                  10         22         32            69
Total Training Costs             916        484       1,400           35
1/  Costs are estimated as of April 1987.
2/  All training contracted to consultant training firms except t.iat for
on-the-job training of semi-skilled field workforce.
3/  Based on US$1,200/40-hour training module for groups of 10 operators
and mechanics and US$2,000/module for 15-20 managers and engineers.
4/  Includes Round-Table Seminars. Based on US$1,935 per Centro.
5/  Based on US$20,000 for each of 8 consultant trainers for 35 weeks of
work.
Training Prooram Cash Flow
(US$ '000s)
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991    Total
Amount              200       200        350       350        300    1,400
Percent             14%       14X        25%       25X        22Z     100%
Source: SCT and Bank staff
April 1987



- 99 -                       ANNEX 5
Page I of 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
A. Introduction
1.        Technical assistance is to be provided under the project, to help
DGCOP establish a more adequate planning data base as early as possible in
the project period and to assist the DGCOP staff in the efficient use of
pavement management data.
2.        To provide this technical assistance, consulting services of
domestic or foreign firms, or a combination thereof, will be needed to work
with DGCOP to develop comprehensive highway network condition surveys,
analyze the resulting data, and apply it in the planning process. Similar
assistance is proposed for development of bridge maintenance planning
programs and the use of "weigh-in-motion" programs, which will provide
heretofore incomplete data concerning actual axle loading, a vital component
of pavement management.
3.        An outline of Terms of Reference for consultancy services are given
in the paragraphs below for:
(a) Road Condition Surveys;
(b) Bridge Condition Survey; and
Cc) "Weigh-in-Motion" Survey.
B. Outline of Terms of Reference
4.        Pavement Condition Survey.  The following outline of Terms of
Reference (TOR) will form the basis for selected consultant teams, to carry
out detailed pavement condition surveys of the paved road network. Several
consultant teams will be selected, so as to complete the surveys on about
39,000 km of the federal highway network within the first two years of the
project period.
5.        One consul.ant team will be designated as the lead team.  As lead
team, it will be responsible not only for 4ts portion of tbie network
condition survey, but will also coordinate the work of the other teams,
collate the data, and assist DGCOP in correlating the data with the present
point system of evaluation, so as to orovide a more accurate means of
condition evaluation in between the periodic roughness and deflection
surveys.
6.        Once the initial testing cycle is completed, DGCOP and the lead
consultant team will formulate a continuing program for roughness and
deflection surveys to be carried out by consultants on a five-year cycle-
i.e., 20Z of the paved system to be tested every year.



- 100 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
7.        The Terms of Reference for the Survey Consultants are as follows:
(a)  Based on a work program to be agreed with DGCOP, the
consultant will provide necessary equipment and staff to carry
out roughness and dynamic deflection testing, over the
consultant's assigned portion of the national paved highway
network, in not more than two calendar years;
(b) Equipment and testing methods shall be as specified by DGCOP,
so that test results will be compatible with those produced by
the other consultant teams;
(c) Test results compiled by individual road sections shall be
submitted to DGCOP on a quarterly basis (except as noted
below), in a standard format approved by DGCOP;
(d) Where roughness and/or deflection tests indicate pavement
conditions requiring more than normal periodic maintenance,
the test results shall be reported to DGCOP without delay,
along with the consultant's recommendations for remedial
action; and
(e)  On completion of all testing work, the consultant shall submit
a consolidated final repcrt of its findings, including those
for any section described in (d), and recommendations for any
changes in testing methods, type of equipment, or frequency of
testing. With respect to frequency of surveys, the consultant
shall state his opinion as to the need for more frequent
testing, due to unusual soil or climatic conditions in certain
areas.
8.        The lead survey consultant, in addition to carrying out his share
of the work outlined above, shall:
(e   Assist DGCOP in developing the individual survey consultant
programs, irncluding drafting of reporting forms and
timetables, to ensure that the work is completed in a timely
fashion;
(b, Assist DGCOP in developing computer applications for the
survey data and correlating these applications with the point
system currently being used by the Maintenance Residents;
(c) Assist DGCOP in establishint, the continuing cycle of road
surveys;
(d) Assist DGCOP in developing required planning methods for the
preparation of annual and five-year prioritized maintenance
programs, with related budget estimates;
(e) Work with DGCOP and the Maintenance Residents to ensure that
all DGCOP staff concerned with maintenance, both at



- 101 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
headquarters and in the Centros, are well briefed on the
development and use of the pavement condition surveys and
resultant maintenance programming operations; and
(f) The load survey consultant will also be responsible for
assisting DGCOP in assembling the bridge study data; and
preparing an integrated road and bridge maintenance program on
a priority basis and a prograu maintainiig the rolling
five-year road and bridge maintenance program current.
9.        One or more bridge consultant teams will be engaged to carry out
detailed condition inventories of all bridges on the paved highway network,
within the initial two years of the project period. These consultants will:
(a) Gather all available data regarding the design and
construction (and other history) for each bridge to be
investigated;
(b) Determine the general condition of the bridge, its approaches,
and channel condition/protection;
(c) Based on the information gathered and on a detailed condition
survey, rate the safe load capacity of each bridge;
(d) Recommend prcograms of routine and veriodic maintenance, and
reconstructicon or emergency work for each bridge; and
(e) Provide quarterly reports during the survey period, which
detail findings of the survey during the quarter, and, on
completion of the work, a final report, recommending future
inspection requirements and appropriate action to be taken to
keep the bridges in service, including proposals for load
restriction if required.
10.       Weigh-in-Motion Survey.  DGCOP will acquire four sets of
"weigh-in-motion" equipment for use in determining more accurately the axle
loadings to which the road network and included bridges are being subjected.
The equipment purchase agreement should provide for the manufacturer to
provide teams to work with designated DGCOP personnel for an initial period
of six months, to ensure that the DGCOP staff are competent in the
installation, calibration, and operation of the equipment.
11.       Thereafter, the DGCJP operators and equipment will be sited at
locations indicated by the road and bridge survey consultants as being
critical points in the network, insofar as volume and composition of traffic
is concerned. Results of the "weigh-in-motion" studies will be integrated
into the road and bridge planning program model, and also will be used to
establish priorities for bridge periodic maintenance. reconstruction, or
emergency work.
April 1987



- 102-                      ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis and Evaluation of the Maintenance Program
Present Procedures Applie. by DGCOP
1.        The list of roads in need of periodic maintenance is established
initially on a state by state basis, dependent mainly on judgement as to
condition made by the Centro SCT maintenance engineer. This list is then
submitted to the central office of the Maintenance Directorate along with the
supporting documentation provided by the Centro SCT maintenance engineer
where it is reviewed and analyzed along wlth all others received. The review
is carried out on a country-wide basis taking into account the amount of
funds allocated for periodic maintenance in the current budget along with the
relative periority of the proposed work determined on the basis of traffic,
relative importance of the affected road link and perceived condition. This
system was used to initially establish the proposed first-year program of
periodic maintenance for roads and bridges to be included in SCT's
Maintenance Improvemwint Program (1987-1991). Thereafter, on the basis of the
data available and collected prior to and during the appraisal process, the
proposed program was reviewed and checked using the Bank's HDM model.
Evaluation of Alternative Malntenance Strategies and Formulation of the
Program.
2.        The economic evaluation of the maintenance program has been carried
out based upon the latest version of the Highway Desin and Maintenance Model
(HDM III) and using field information supplied by SCT and SCT's consultants.
The model consists of empirically calibrated road deterioration relationships
under given traffic loads, and, based upon the specific degree of
deterioration, it predicts the impact upon the physical components of vehicle
operations. As selected maintenance operations change the rate of road
deterioration (e.g., overlays and strengthening of the pavement leading to
reductior.s in surface roughness), the model endogenously repredicts their
impact on vehicle operations. Details of the relationships incorporated into
the model are described in the Users Manual for HDM III (Annex 10).
3.        Initial road conditions, geometric and structural characteristics,
road maintenance, and vehicle costs were input exogenously into the model.
For the evaluation of the maintenance program, these were specified by SCT
and SCT's consultants, in consultation with Bank staff. Based upon these,
the model was used to estimate the life-cycle costs of different road design
and maintenance options for road sections representative of the entire
highway network. The model estimated the total costs for large numbers of
alternative maintenance policies on a year-by-year basis, and was used to
search for the alternative with the highest net present value (NPY), at given
discount rates. The objective was to search out that combination of
maintenance operations which results in the minimum total life-cycle costs to
society, including the costs to road users, as well as the costs borne by the
highway authority. Vehicle speeds and operating costs and road deterioration
and maintenance costs were estimated endogenously by the model, as a function



- 103 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
of the road design and maintenance standards, traffic volume end axle loads,
and environmental conditions. Maintenance and vehicle operating costs were
first estimated by the model in terms of physical quantities; then, prices
and unit costs were applied to determine the total financial and economic
costs.
4e        For the evaluation of the maintenance program, a sample of 14
asphalt concrete road sections ( alled 'links"), totalling about 916 km, were
selected by SCT to represent the structural characteri9tics, geometric, and
surface conditions, climate, topography, et al prevailing over the federal
network, and typical traffic composition and volumes over the representative
links (Table 1). Excluded from the representative links were about 2,700 km
of pavements which are considered too weak to support the present traffic
roads, the technical solution for which is strengthening. These pavements
fall outside the scope of the proposed project. They are to be strengthened
under the ongoing Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME).
5.        SCT based the classification of each link partly upon a general
road inventory, This inventory identified, inter alia, surface type and the
overall condition of the road pavements. For the purpose of the model use,
this information was supplemented with a detailed inventory of about 2000 km
and by SCT's consultant's observations, and then translated into assessments
of pavement characteristics: strength; cracking, rutting, raveling, and
other blemishes; and surface roughness.
6.        The volumes and compositions of traffic sets were obtained by SCT
from O/D surveys and actual traffic counts, The assumed annual traffic
growth rates range from 4% to 5% in 1987, depending upon vehicle types, and
gradually taper off to 1% to 2% towards the later part of the 15-year
analysis horizon (Table 2).
7.        Nine typical vehicle typer were used to represent the composition
of traffic sets:  (i) small car; (ii) medium car; (iii) utility van;
(iv) large bus; (v) light truck (petrol); (vi) light truck (diesel);
(vii) medium truck; (viii) heavy truck; and (ix) articulated truck. The
physical characteristics and costs of these vehicles were deftnei by SCT's
consultants, based on records in the archives and dealer enquiries, and are
shown in Table 3. Detailed information for each category includes fuel type,
gross vehicle mass, pay load, equivalent number of axles per vehicle, normal
vehicle service life, hours and kilometers driven per year, and average
number of passengers per vehicle (Table 4).
8.        The basic maintenance operations and their unit costs were defined
by SCT's Directorate of Maintenance, in consultation with Bank staff, and are
shown in Table 5. These operations include patching, sealing, overlays, and
routine maintenance. These maintenance operations were grouped into 27
policies, representing increasing amounts of intensity of maintenance
intervention.
9.        The policy optimization was carried out at the link level, because
the optimum policy would vary from link to link, depending upon the
respective link characteristics. In formulating the set of maintenance
policy alternativetL, it was necessary to test a wide range of maintenance
options. For the sake of computational efficiency, it was convenient to use



- 104 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
the same set of policy options for all of the paved roads. The maintenance
operations on paved roads, in addition to basic routine maintenance, may
consist of any combination of patching, resealing, overlay, and pavement
reconstruction, and they can all be triggered at various levels of distreas,
Alternative 01 is the baseline case (or 'null" alternative), where, besides
basic routine maintenance which is performed under all alternatives, patching
also is done. The purpose of defining this alternative is to evaluate the
additional benefits of increments in maintenance.
10.       The maintenance alternatives were evaluated for each link on the
basis of net present value (NPV) of each alternative when compared with the
baseline case, at a discount rate of 12%, which represents the opportunity
cost of capital in Mexico. The analyses were carried out over a 15-year
pericd. Under no budgetary constraint, the optimum policy on ,ach link would
be the one that maximizes the NPV. Table 6 shows the best maintenance
alternatives for the representative links of the network, while Table 7 gives
the estimated direct costs involved in implementing the recommended
maintenance strategy, including the works needed to remedy the backlog of
periodic maintenance. Table 8 provides a summary of the optimal maintenance
strategies derived from the procedure described in this Annex.
Economic Evaluation of Bridges
11.       While no analyses were made of specific bridge works beyond those
which form part of the road links identified for periodic maintenance, a
methodology was established in order to evaluate future works to be financed
under the project. To carry out the economic evaluation of the bridges,
the following methodology will be used:
(a) If the bridge is located on a road where pavement strengthening of
maintenance works are to be carried out, no specific justification
has to be made for the bridge;
(b) If the works consist of strengthening or rebuilding a bridge not
included in a section with similar pavement works, econo-ic
evaluation will be based upon quantifiable advantages of avoiding
traffic interruption while the works are carried out; the period of
economic evaluation will be 15 years, with several discount rates
(12%, 16%, and 20%) used to compute the net present value; and
(c) If the works consist of routine maintenance or minor repairs, and
the bridge iP not included in a section with similar pavement
works, the economic evaluation will be done assuming that delaying
this work would lead to more expensive work later on.
November 1986



- 105 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Representative Road Links
Representative Network                                 AADT     Length
Link                                                              km
Mexicali-Tijuana                                      3,700      134.0
Salt.-Limcoach Ni                                     7$300      31.3
Monterrey-China                                       2.800       20.7
Sombrerete-Dgo.                                       2,200      43e5
Limagos-Jal-Jal                                       4 ,800     58.1
Jimmez-Chihuahu                                       69000      78.0
Limslp, Zac-Slp                                       4,500      70.2
Guadalaj-Autlan                                       4,900      33.6
Pachuc-Chapluhua                                      4,500     100.3
Limmovelos-Igual                                      7,200      67.6
Chilpan-Acapulco                                      6,000     130.8
Puebla-San Hipolito                                  11,000      41.8
Limmexico-Puebla                                      4.200      45.1
Limoax-Tapachula                                      2,100      60.7
TOTAL                                        915.7
Note: For location of these road sections, see Map IBRD 20343.
Source: SCT and Bank staff.
November 1986



moo
HIGHWAY NAINTENANCE PROJECT
Composition of Traffic  a/ on the Representative Links of the Network
Cars and
Link                Length (km)   Utility Vans    Buses   Light Trucks    Wed. Trucks   Heavy Trucks    Total
Mexicali-Tijuana      134.0          2,513          347        284              142            414         3,700
Salt.-Lincoach Hl      31.3          4,963          684         560             280            813         7,300
Monterrey-China        20.7           1,901         263        216              108            312         2,800
Sombrerete-Dgo.        43.5          1,493          206         170              85            246         2,200
Linages-Jal/Jal        58.1          23,259         450         370             185            536         4,800
Jlamz-Chihuahu         78.0          4,074          563        462              231            670         6,000
Limslp-Zac-Slp         70.2          3,056          422         346             173            503         4,500
Guadlaj-Antlan         33.6          3,327          460         378             189            546         4,900
Pachuc-Chapulhua      100.3          3,056          422        346              173            503         4,500
Liumordes-Lo-al       67.6          4,890          675        554              277            804         7,200
Chilpan-Acapulco      130.8          4,074          563        462              231            670         6,000
Puebla-Su. Hipolito   41.8           7,468         1032        848              424           1228        11,000
Limuexico-Puebla       45.1          2,852          394        324              162            468         4,200
Limoax-Tapachula       60.7          1,425          197         162              81            235         2,100
Total   915.7
1/ Average annual daily traffic (AADT) over the road section.
Source: SCT
No,ember 1986



DEEO
Vddcle Unit CODts
(COsto are in U.S.$)
*ulI    1adiz    Uftity       large    Ugtt   LI*wt Dised    Neia    HiAwy   Artli-late
oar       car      vns                 Td         T~          Tnhk       Tn         Ti
FCmdlOsets
Not Vddcle (Cost/Vehicle)   5500.00    7975.00  9900.00   60500.00  2i950.00   26950.00    38500.00  51700.00   66000.00
Tilr       (Cost/Tire)        22.71      48.97    75.23      305.16    252.64     252.64       252.64    303.73     303.73
Halnt Labor (Cost/labor-H)     1.88       2.70      2.13       2.18      1.41       1.41         1.54      1.79       1.99
Crew Time (Cost/Crw4iF)        3.09       3.09     3.09        8.94      8.05       8.05        8.05       8.05       8.05
0
sb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
FEoKoc Costs
Ne,w Vidcle (OCst/VJeicle)   4675.00    6778.70  8415.00   51425.00  22907.00   22907.00    32725.00  43945.00   56100.00
Tires (Ckst1rTe)              19.30      41.62    63.94      259.39    214.74     214.74       214.74    258.17     258.17
Maine Ltabr (Costflabor-H)     1.88       2.70      2.13       2.18      1.41       1.41         1.54      1.79       1.99
Cra, TIae (Cost/CLwV-i)        3.09       3.09      3.09       894       8.05       8.05        8.05        .05       8.05
Passier  ay (Cost/PaFbsrO    1.29         1.29      1.29       0.38      -          -           -          -          -
Anual Ovedhea Costs (%)       15.00      15.00    15.00       15.00     15.00      15.00        15.00     15.00      15.00
Ananl Interebt Rate (2)       12.00      12.00    12.00       12.00     12.OD       12.00       12.00     12.00      12.00
Fuel & hAbwicats (COst/Liter)   Petrol -  0.07   Deseel Fuel - 0.07  E&gne Oil - 1.10
Foreign E!bMe Costs
Nat Vvwcle (Cost/Vehicle)   2475.00    3588.00  2970.00    6050.00   6737.50    6737.50       9625.00  12925.00    6600.00
Tim        (Cost/Tire)        10.22      22.04    22.57       30.52     63.16      63.16       63.16      75.93      30.37
Saice: scr
Nuwa r 1986



- 108 -                                                   ANNEX 6
Table 4
Vebiee lt a
Sm11     M m    utiity            ap       Light   Ught DIeal   H               H"ala
VehiclecVr   iptin a Eck
Wdel  Tp                            1           2          4          5           6           7             8         9           10
PM1 Type                      petLv1      PeCt1       Petrol      me01    Petrol        mv~I nwes l   Mel                    WMe
Bgl   Pta (1htric lp)          44          115.00     129.0       155.00    155.00       155.00        155.OD    350.00      350.00
Oas Veh Wht  (x)                 1.00        1.30       1.80       10.50      5.50         5.30         13.00     3D.00       27.00
Wva1s2  Ades (E.4.0)                        -                       0.51      0.04        0.03           1.25      1.76        4.11
Fqdvs1let  IAd    (Bp4.0)       0.01        0.02        0.04        1.01      0.27         0.26          1.54      2.26        4.43
hbezsgeeh    Ades                     -                 -           2.00      2.00         2.00          2.00      3.00        5.00
lAe Typt
bde h I                        1           1          1           1          1           1             1         1           1
hxle  Db 2                     1           1          1           2         2            2             2         2           2
lae lb 3                                                                                                         2           2
h. Nb 4                                                                                                                      2
x.  ND S                                                                                                                     2
Psylad tbs)                     -            -          0.50        2.40       2.40        2.00          7.60     13.40       22.30
Atadyuauc Dreg ft fficit   0.45             0.50        0.46        0.65      0.70         0.70          0.85      0.85        0.63
Projected fraial Arm             1.80        2.08       2.72        6.30       3.25        3.25          5.20      5.2)        5.75
06ivIIW       (ObtIc HP)       30.00        7.O0       40.        100.00     80.00        60.00        100.00    100.00      210.00
M.drg tmP   (Marie HP)         17.00        21.00      30.00      160.0    100.00        100.00        250.00    250.00      500.00
ha:i0 (Nu.I)                   0.Ze         0.268       .221       0.233     0.253       0.253          0.292     0.292       0.170
Fratiol (Pwd)                   -           -                       -     0.010       0.012W0        O.009O0  0.009400    0.00230D
puy 9h Spea  (Nb/              98.30        98.30      94.90       93.40     81.60       81.60          88.0      88.80       84o10
3500.00     3000.00    300.00      2300.00   3300.00      2600.0        1800.00   1800.00      1700.0O
!K LV AXt Velocity
(iWS)                        259.7        259.7      239.7       212.8      194.0       194.0         177.7     177.7       130.9
E!h Puut    for pad           0.7400       0.7400     0.7400      0.7800    0.730D       0.7300        0.7300   0.7300       0.7300
lhb.uL  Shape Parautw         0.2740       0.2740     0.3060      0.273D    0.300        0.30.         0.3100   0.3100       0.2440
rw  lfff1 y lbCto              1aw000      L000       L           1.0000    10           1             160000    1.00        10
Mal Mjwmt8D         Vtot      1.1600       1.1600    1.1600       1.1500    1.1500       1.1500        1.1500    1.1500      1.1500
am   Gpbst clo(z)                15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0          15.0      15.0        15.0
Tfre   1b   VeIbM  (0C oD       -           -           -           6.5       4.30        4.3            7.60      7.30        8.39
one NiStsrR d 2tdl3             -           -          -            3.39      1.93         1.93          3.39      3.39        4.57
Gumtwt Mcmd Wm Tm               -           -           -           0.16      0.16        0.16           0.16      0.16        0.16
Wm  ramm1d.                     -           -           -           1.28       1.28        1.28          1.28      1.28        1.28
oh1Att eParts 1hm              32.49        32.49      32.49       1i77       1.49         1.49          1.49      8.61       13.94
o  Qutff O         Pr   Ta     13.70        13.70      13.70        3.56    251.79      251.79         251.79     35.31       15.65
VetU. UtiIt, -1V
Par   sp                     1 D.00      120.00     10.00       190.00      0.          0.0            0.00      0.00        0.00
uamtat Laor BW  Tam            77.14       77.14       77.14      293.44    242.03      242.03         242.03    301.46      652.51
&pms    w  Ltbr MuM To          0.55        0.55        0.55        0*52      0*52        0.52           0.52      0.52        0.52
lb. of Pwo_gz/:1.1   3.0    4.0    5.0    41.0   -                                                          -                -
haiml  oWs kDva                 160.         160.       160.       1500.     120f.       12t0.         1775.    20o.         2500.
hAUl Wmte    rdim             10000.       10000.     15000.      8000.   60000.        60000.         80W0.   90WtO.       lO00
1dcle  9w1 aft   (ers)            6.           6.         6.          6.        6.          6.             S.        8.          8.
Vddeb   Dopmdatim                                   cn~Lz    oawatmt vddca 1f
V*Ads UesltI4u                       R       P-mWA  adjueald u   _ dWa              q s S  mW raw cmt      dl a-
fly ut1Jin1i Redo              0.6          0.60        0.80        0.75      0S5         0.85           0.5       0.85        0.85
Rob       ft hu/vai1cIe           4            4           4           6         6           6              6        10          18
3tdm   Pw tyFcto              1.00          1.00       10          1.00      10           1.00          1.00      1.00        1.00
mxu&a 1986



MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Unit Costs (per application) of Road Maintenance Operations
Type of     Cost Structure (% of Total)                      Total Unit
Maintenance Operations 1/       Unit       Cost       Labor   Equipment  Material       Overhead       Cost (US$)
Patching                       Sq. M.    Economic      31         27          32            10            3.84
Financial    31         27          32            10            4.52
Resealing                      q. M.    Economic       6         13          71           10             0.46              1
Financial     6         13          71            10            0.54
Overlay                        Sq. M.    Economic       7         19          64            10            2.04
Financial     7         19          64            10             2.40
Routine Maintenance            Km/yr     Economic      47         24          19            10          932.00 3/
Financial    47         24          19            10         1,100.00 T/
1/ Variations in these average costs are expressed through the cost adjustment factor, to reflect
economies of scale, etc.
2/ Prices as of November 1986.
3/ Not including overhead or other indirect costs.
Source:  SCT and Bank Staff
November 1986                                                                                                            0x
VI c%



- 110 -
ANNEX 6
Table 6
HIGHWAY MAINTENAUM PROJECY
Matrix of Alternative Mainitenance Policies
Resn#All                       Overlaying
Alternative   X of Area Patched  2 Area Cracked   Seal Thickness Quality Index   Overlay Thickness
Base #0             1E02                 502             15 _ 
#1                   1002                752             15 _ m
#2                   1002                50%             15 m
#3                   1002                252             15 mm             _                 _
#4                   1002                -                -               65 QI             50mm
#5                   1002                -                -               65 QI             75 mm
t6                   100                 -                -               45 QI             50 mm
#7                   1002                -                -               45 QI             75mm
#8                   1002                752             15mm             65 QI             50m
#9                   100                 75%             15mm             65 QI             75m
#10                 1OO2                 752             15 m             45 QI             50 
#11                  1002                752             15m              45 QI             75 mm
#12                  1002                502             15 mm            65 QI             50 mm
t13                  1002                501             15 m             65 QI             75 mm
#14                  1002                502             15 m             45 QI             50 mm
#15                  1002                502             15mm             45 Q              75 mm
#16                  1002                -                -               73 QI             50 mm
#17                  1002                -                -               75 QI             75 mm
#18                  1002                -               -                45 QI             50 mm
#19                  100%                -               -                45 QI             75 mm
#20                  1007                752             15 mm            75 QI             50 mm
#21                  1002                752             15 mm            75 QI             75 mm
#22                  1002                752             15 m             45 QI             50 mm
#23                  1002                752            15mm              45 Q              75 mm
#24                  1002                502            15 mm             75 QI             50 mm
#25                  100                 502             15 m             75 QI             75 mm
#26                  1002                502             15 mm            45 QI             50 mm
#27                  1002                502             15mm             45 Q              75 mm
Mln. Interval between             Min. Interval between
Seals - 6 yrs.                    Overlays - 8 yrs.
___________                       Max. allowable QI - 75                           _
Source: Bank Staff
November 1986



- 111 --
ANNEX 6
Table 7
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimates of Direct Costs for Implementing Optimal
Maintenance Strategy Derived from the HDMM
Estimated Direct Costs
(U.S.$ Million)
Year                          Overlays      Seals    Routine 1/  Total
1987                            91.80       52.00     36.94       180.74
1988                            72.95       44.00     36.93       153.88
1989                            81,00       24.00     36.94       141.94
1990                            81.00       24.00     36.95       141.95
1991                            81.00       24.00     36.95       141.95
Totals                  407.75      168.00    184.71       760.46
1/ Amounts shown exclude administrative and other indirect costs.
Note:  Estimates are based on the assumption that there is no growth of
network.
Source: SCT and Bank Staff
March 1987



- 112 -                                    AN= 6
mao                                       Table 8
111GW MAUGNCEW PNDJECr
&uury of Hatterwm StrategLe.
DeIvied fram the HU44
Initial                Maintenrc
Rod Cxdition            9rion                                     ategy
Traffic Rarge (AAM)
3000             3000-7500              75QO
Good                         itRattne        Aplicable to all traffic rnges ad road clitions*
Sealrg          Every 6-8 years  J    ery 5-7 years   FE_ery 4-6 years
Overlay        EBery 12-16 years   Every 10-14 years    Every 8-12 years
PRutin              Applicable to aU traffic rdres aid rod caoditicxs*
Mxcracked areeu50%
SeaIixg                         N/A                  Max applicable QIu75
Min interval - 4 years
IbicdS8    - 15 mn
Fair
Max QI145                       Max QI-45
Overlay         Mn Interval=8 yrs.              Max Iterval-8 yrs.
lbicknes-70 mn                  lhickosss70 mn
Mmx cradced area-5Ct
Sealirg         Mmx aiplicable QI-75                 NlA
MLn interval-4 yrs.
Thickness15 an
Poor
Mmx QI45                        Mna QIm45
Overlay         Mln iinterval8 yrs.              Max interval-8 yrs.
Lhduas-70 mmn                    dhicss.70  mn
*Imiu1estdiing all nwr cracks.
1/ Yieldirg positive NWV's at 182 Discount Rate
Sourci^: ak Staff
November 1986



- 113 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
ME3XICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Implementation Plan for Project Execution
Timing
Starting   Completion
A.  Periodic Maintenance of Roads and Bridges I/                  Date         Date
1. Establish and/or update the periodic maintenance
program for roads and bridges. Establish annual
program for coming year in detail, setting priorities
and taking account of budgetary resources available.           8/87       11/87
2.  Obtain approval from the Bank.                                11/87       12/87
3. Update and complete road and bridge condition
inventories using existing system. Carry out field
and laboratory investigations for roads and bridges
on the priority list, to prov4de data for design of
optimal maintenance interventions. During field
investigation, update and confirm traffic levels and
intensity, including traffic composition. Determine
structural strength and integrity and condition of
pavement, using roughness measurements and
non-destructive testing (i.e., dynamic deflection
measurements) in the matiner as agreed with the Bank.          9/87       12/87
4. Initiate and complete design of works to be carried
out on road and/or bridge under consideration.
Prepare tender documents in accordance with standards
agreed with the Bank.                                          1/88       2/88
5. Advertise and initiate bidding process for tender or
group of tenders, receive and evaluate bids, and
award and sign contract, all in the manner and under
the conditions agreed with the Bank.                           2/88       3/88
6. Implement the periodic maintenance work for roads and
the repair and rehabilitation work for bridges.                4/88       12/88
1/ Activities shown are on an annual cycle, with dates shown here only for
the 1987/1988 program. Dates and timing for subsequent years will be
similar.



114 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
Timing
Starting   Completion
Date        Date
7.  Where applicable, forward copies of all relevant
contract documentation to the Bank for review.
Submit quartarly arid other reports to the Bank, in
accordance with agreed arrangements.                          4/88        7/88
B. Acquisition and Rehabilitation of Equipment 1/
8.  Update equipment inventory and requirements and
prepare and/or update the overall programs and the
detailed programs for the current and coming years
for scrapping of overage or unusable equipment,
a.quisition of new equipment and spare parts, and
rehabilitation and/or repair of existing sidelined
equipment, taking available budgetary resources into
account.                                                      8/87       11/87
9,  Obtain approval from Bank.                                    11/87      12/87
10. Prepare specifications and other tender documents in
accordance with criteria and standards agreed with
the Bank. Advertise and initiate bidding process for
tender or group of tenders for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement, for those project
components for which ICB is to be used (new equipment
and spare parts). For rehabilitation or repair of
existing equipment, carry out the procurement process
in the manner and under the conditions agreed with
the Bank. Receive and evaluate bids and make awards
and sign contracts in the manner agreed with the
Bank.                                                        12/87        3/88
11. When applicable, submit all tender documentation,
including draft contracts, for Bank's review,
comment, and approval.                                        2/88        4/88
12. Proceed with the procurement of new equipment and
spare parts and repair and rehabilitation of existing
equipment.                                                    3/88       12/88
13, Where applicable, forward copies of the signed
contract and all other relevant contract
documentation to the Bank for its records. Submit
quarterly and other reports to the Bank, in
accordance with the agreed arrangements.                      3/88       12/88
1/  Activities shown are on an annual cycle, with dates shown here only for
the 1987/1988 program.  Dates and timing for subsequent years will be
similar.



- 115-                            ANNEX 
Page 3 of 4
Timing
Starting   Completion
Date        Date
C. Construction and Improvement of Workshops 1/
14. Update and complete workshop inventory, including
machinery and tool status and condition.                        8/87      11/87
15. Establish and/or update the construction,
rehabilitation, and improvement program for
maintenance workshops, including machinery and tool
requirements. Establish annual program taking
available budgetary resources into account.                     8/87      11/87
16. Obtain Bank approval.                                          11/87      12/87
17. Initiate and complete design of works to be carried
out in workshops included in the current year's
program. Prepare tender documents in accordance with
standards agreed with the Bank.                                 1/88       2/88
18. Advertise and initiate bidding process for tender or
group of tenders, receive and evaluate bids, and
award and sign contracts, all in the manner and under
the conditions agreed with the Bank.                            2/88       3/88
19. Implement the maintenance workshop civil works and
proceed with the procurement of machinery and tools
for the workshops.                                              4/88      12/88
20. Where applicable, forward copies of all relevant
contract documentation to the Bank for review.
Submit quarterly and other reports to the Bank, in
accordance with the agreed arrangements.                       4/88       12/88
D. Training 1/
21. Establish and/or update training program for DGCOP
personnel and obtain Bank approval.                            8/87       11/87
22. Produce final terms of reference for the general
consultant who is to provide technical assistance in
establishing the detailed content of courses to be
included in the training program and who will also
produce the final terms of reference for the
consultants who are to carry out the actual teaching
of the courses. Obtain Bank approval for these terms
of reference and select consultants. Engage, with
Bank approval, the general consultant and the
individual consultants.                                       11/87        3/88
1! Activities shown are on an annual cycle, with dates shown here only for
the 1987/1988 program. Dates and timing for subsequent years will be
sinilar.



- 116 -                            ARM  7
Page 4 of 4
Timig
Starting   Completion
Date        Date
23. Carry out the training program, submitting quarterly
and other reports to the Sank, in accordance with the
agreed arrangements.                                            3/88      12/88
24. Establish and/or update individual study programs
(in-country and overseas study tours, seminars and
courses) and make praetical arrangements with
universities and other resource centers.                        9/87      12/87
25. Screen and select candidates.                                  11/87      12/87
26. After receiving Bank concurrence, proceed with
individual training courses and study tours.                    1/88      12/88
E. Consulting Services
27. Establish final terms of reference for each
consultant to be engaged (studies and designs in
connection withthe road, bridge and workshop
programs) and sub-it to the Bank for review and
approval,                                                       9/87      11/87
28. Prepare short list and obtain Bank's concurrence,
select consultants,2/ submit draft contracts to the
Bank for review and approval, and award and sign
contracts after receiving Bank concurrence. Provide
copy of signed contract to the Bank for record
purposes*                                                       9/87       3/88
29, Proceed with consultant services, submitting
quarterly and other reports to the Bank, in
accordance with the agreed arrangements.                        3/88      12/88
April 1987
2/ Appointment of consultants is preceded by a standard series of steps, as
follows:
Activity                                               Days
1. Invite and receive proposals                         30
2. Evaluate proposals                                   10
3. Obtain Bank concurrence                              30
4. Notify, invite and negotiate with consultants        15
5. Prepare draft final contract                         15
6. Obtain Bank approval                                 30
7. Sign contract and issue notice to proceed            15
8. Consultant's mobilization                            15
Total Elapsed Time                          160 days



- 117 -                     ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Execution and Monitoring
1.        Execution of the project will be the responsibility of DGCOP, which
will carry out its Maintenance Improvement Program and the various components
of the Project in accordance with the agreements and conditions agreed with
the Bank during negotiations, following the steps and time frame in the
agreed Implementation Plan (Annex 7), and complying with the physical targets
for the project and the program given in the paragraphs below. These
programs and their execution will be reviewed at least annually with the
Bank. Particular attention will be paid to the compliance with annual
targets (para. 7 below and Table 3.2) for routine and periodic maintenance,
which have been set considering the gradual increase of resources that are to
made available and the improvements in efficiency, capability, and technical
knowledge that are to be expected with time. The corresponding annual
budgetary allocations that will be provided for the various components of the
Maintenance Improvement Program and the Project will be monitored on the
basis of tee amounts shown in Table 3.3.
2.        As a condition of the approval by the Bank of the relevant
components to be financed under the proposed Loan, DGCOP will submit to the
Bank annual progratm based upon the agreed economic and technical criteria.
Once a program has been declared eligible, DGCOP will prepare, advertise,
tender, and award contracts subject to review by the Bank. The time allowed
for preparation of bids will be at least 45 days for contracts having an
estimated value of US$3.0 million equivalent or more, and not less than 30
days for smaller contracts. In addition, the following procedures will be
followed:
(a) Foreign contractors will not be required to register (prequalify),
prior to being permitted to acquire the documents needed to prepare
a bid but instead will be allowed to register on a post facto
basis, after an award determination is made. In keeping with SCT's
usual practice, the qualifications of the winning bidder will be
carefully reviewed and checked to ensure that he is capable of
performing the work;
(b)  Advertisements, in local newspapers of wide circulation, will be
placed for a minimum of three days announcing bid opportunities,
and a minimum 30-day period will be allowed for bid preparation.
Field visits will be at the bidder's discretion;
(c) Arrangements will be made to allocate sufficient funds to complete
the entire contract, even if the contract period exceeds one year.
SCT will seek appropriate budgetary authority from SPP to
accomplish this purpose. If the contract period exceeds one year,



-118-                        ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
appropriate, and satisfactory arrangements will be specified in the
contract to provide a method of calculating equitable price
adjustments to account for inflation; and
(d) The contract award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder,
except in the most unusual of circumstances. During the course of
post-qualification, the low bidder will not be disqualified unless
very specific grounds are found for such action; the bidder is
provided an opportunity to explain or refute the cause(s) for such
action; and the Bank's concurrence is received.
3.        Copies of each contract, together with the tender evaluation report
giving the award decision and its rationale, will be provided to the Bank by
DGCOP.  For contracts having a value of less than US$500,000 equivalent, for
which disbursements are made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure, the
contracts will not be sent to the Bank for review, but instead will be kept
on file by DGCOP in its central office, 'or inspection and review by Bank
staff during supervision missions. tn cases where reviews would show that
agreed tender or award procedures had not been followed, the Bank would have
the right to reject the specific contract and to cancel the corresponding
amount from the Loan.
4.        In order to permit satisfactory close monitoring and supervision of
project execution and progress by SCT and the Bank, comprehensive quarterly
reports covering all aspects of the project will be prepared by DGCOP and
submitted through the appropriate SCT office to the Bunk. These quarterly
reports for the Bank will provide information on the maintenance and
invest--nt budget, including a breakdown by category of expenditures and by
force account and contract, Force account expenditures will be further
broken down by their cost components; unit costs by force account and by
contract will be compared; productivity of force account operations will be
assessed; lengths of roads being maintained and level of maintenance will be
documented; and compliance with agreed project implementation targets, status
of selection of and execution of veriodic maintenance of roads and bridges,
and general evaluation of the condition of the network will be reviewed in
the quarterly reports. In addition, detailed cost breakdowns will be
provided for costs incurred in implementing the Project up to that point, for
estimates of additional costs likely to be incurred in future, along with the
reasons and/or justifications therefor and an estimate of the anticipated
total costs at the time of project completion. The disbursement schedule
also will be reviewed, and recommendations made for eventual modifications of
the programs and, as needed, of the reporting requirements.
5.        The reports will contain a narrative summary relating to each of
the Project's components, as well as to the Project as a whole, providing a
short resume of the Project's history up to the date of the report, which
will give in detail the events of the previous quarter. The report will also
cover problems encountered in implementing each of the Project's components
for the quarter under review, solutions proposed, and results anticipated.
The narrative section will provide advance information, to the extent it is
available, on problems likely to be encountered during the ensuing months,
together with actions to be taken to mitigate or avoid the anticipated
difficulties.



- 119 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
6,        Data (possibly in chart form) will be presented, giving the
absolute quantities and percentage completion of each project component (in
terms of financial expenditure, physical accomplishment, and elapsed time,
separately), along with an estimate of the anticipated time of completion of
each project component, and of the overall project, related to the periods
originally estimated.
Targets
7,        As a means of providing easily monitored parameters, to aid in
determining whether project progress is satisfactory, the Government and the
Bank reached agreement during negotiations on a series of targets to be met,
in order to help the expeditious and satisfactory execution of the Project
and of SCT's Maintenance Improvement Program. These parameters and the
targets proposed are listed below and are summarized in Table 3.2.
Units per
Parameter                                    Year           Target
Routine Maintenance                                      km           42,000
Clearing of right-of-way                           km            10,000
Clearing of road'ay section, ditches,              km            15,000
and culvert openings
Grading of unpaved shoulders                       km             5,000
Cleaning of culverts                               km            10,000
Patching and repair of cement concrete             m3               500
components of roadway section
Patching and crack treatment of asphaitic          km             5,000
concrete pavements
Patching and repairing stabilized shoulders        km             2,500
Maintenance and repair of signs and                km            42,000
road markings 1/
Painting and repair of guard rail and barriers   km              10,000
Painting of steel bridge components                Unit         250 bridges
Maintenance of bridge joints and bearings          Unit         250 bridges
Patching and repair of bridge                      Unit         250 bridges
concrete components
Periodic Maintenance
Resealing of asphaltic concrete roads              km             7,500
Overlays of asphaltic concrete roads               km             3,500
- Hot mix                                       km             2,800
- Cold mix                                      km               700
Strengthening of asphaltic concrete pavements    km                 600
Repair and rehabilitation of bridges               Unit         270 bridges
Reconstruction and improvement of bridges          Unit          20 bridges
1/  Approximately 8,000 km of road markings will need to be renewed each
year.



-120 -                      AMNEX 8
Page 4 of 
Equipment and Workshops
Scrapping of unusable equipment                     Unit       600
Repair and rehabilitation of existing equipment  Unit          225
Procurement of new equipment                        Unit       450
Construction, rehabilitation, and improvement
of workshops                                      Unit        20
Training
Training accomplished                               Persons  3,800
8.        Records of accomplishments compared to these goals will be kept by
DGCOP, and annual reports, showing the comparison, provided to the Bank at
the time of the annual consultations on project progress. These reports will
also provide reasons for any shortfalls experienced and identify difficulties
and problems preventing improved performance, together with proposed and
intended actions to be taken by DGCOP to remove obstacles and Increase
accomplishments. An updated detailed Implementation Plan (Annex 7) will be
presented by DGCOP, at the time of the annual consultation, for project
execution during the coming year, which will address any difficulties or
problems encountered or anticipated in order to increase or maintain the rate
of project progress.
Operational Targets
9.        In addition to the targets delineated above, the Government and the
Bank reached agreement during negotiations on a set of project monitoring
Performance Indicators, which will provide data and information on the status
and quality of DGCOP's maintenance operations, providing benchmarks against
which improvement in road and bridge maintenance operations and capability
can be measured. A list of these monitoring Indicators is given in the table
below:
Performance Indicators
Present
Item                                 Unit             Level       Standard
Roads Inventoried                       km/year          10,000       20,000
Bridges Inventoried                     bridges/year        500        2,500
Percent of Permanently Sidelined
Equipment Fleet Scrapped per Year   2                       5           20
Availability of Equipment Fleet         % (1/)               50           80
Utilization of Available Fleet          2 (2/)               60           75
Periodic Road Maintenance Performed
Using Force Account (Administration)  2 (3/)
- Bituminous Seal                                           100           75
- Asphaltic Concrete Overlay                                 60           25
1/  Taking the 1002 level as 220 working days per year, for a total of 1320
working hours available.  Present availability is about 502.
2/ Using a total of six hours availability per working day. Present
utilization is about 60%.
3/ Percentage of total annual periodic road maintenance carried out, with
the balance executed by contract.



- 121 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 5
10.       At the time of the annual consultative meeting on project progress,
DGCOP will provide the Bank with a set of comparative data, showing the
actual values of the performance indicators as they relate to the year lust
past, compared to the standard val'es listed, giving reasons for any
shortfalls or differences, together wf.h an Action Plan listing specific
actions that will be taken to rectif.y any discrepancy.
11.       During these meetings, the Government and the Bank will discuss and
reach pertinent agreements on the following, among other things:
-- Financial summary showing the status of implementation of
the Project
-- Compliance with agreed targets for works and procurement
financed under the Loan;
--  Economic evaluation of works to be included in the annual
program for the coming year;
3- Use and deployment of consulting services for training and
other purposes;
-- Review of audit reports, data, and documents kept on file by
DGCOP, and consolidation of disbursements against actual
expenditures;
3- Updated targets and objectives of the Project;
-- Proposed maintenance budget for the coming year;
-- Detailed maintenance program for the coming year;
-- Specific maintenance targets for the coming year;
-- Review of the operation of the Special Account and of the
disbursement process, with particular focus on the system using
Statements of Expenditure; and
-- Proposed disbursement schedule for the balance of the project
period.
April 1987



- 122 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1.   Mexico, Transport Sector Strategy Note, July 1983.
2.   Mexico. Public Investment Study.  Transport Sector Annex, August
1983.
3.   Transport Sector Strategy Paper (World Bank) Green Cover, February
1987,
4,   Transport Pricing Study (World Bank) Green Cover, February 1987.
5.   Esquema Director de la Red Carretera. Informe Principal. SCT, 1984
6.   Sistema de Analisis Sectorial Para La Programacion de los
Transportes. SOGELERG for SCT, 1984, 1985, 1986.
7e   Datos Viales 1981. SAHOP, 1982
8.   Mexico. Transport Sector Study. Mexican Toll Roads. June, 1984.
9.   Mexico. Rural Roads Sector. Chiapas Case Study, January, 1984.
10.   Estudio Sobre Cargas a los Usuarios del Sistema Carretera. SCT,
February, 1985.
11.   Esquema Normativo para los Proyectos de Inversion Financiados por
Organismos Financieros Internacionales. SPP, November, 1986.
12.   Manual de Organizacion de la Direccion General de Conservacion de
Obras Publicas (DGCOP), SCT, 1984.
13.   Metodologia para Formular el Programa y Presupuesto de Conservacion
de Carreteras, DGCOP, SCT, 1986.
14.   SCT's Pluriannual Highway Sector Investment and Expenditure
Program, 1987 to 1991.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
15,   Mexico. Second Highway Sector Project. Issues Paper, Final Project
Decision Memorandum and Staff Appraisal Report, April, 1984.



- 123 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
16.   SCT's Detailed Pluriannual Federal Road Maintenance Program, 1987
to 1991.
17.   User's Manual - Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III),
World Bank, 1985.
18.   Programa y Presupuesto de Conservacion de la Red Federal de
Carreteras para 1987, DGCOP, SCT, November 1986.
19.   Estudio de Componente Externo en la Conservacion de Carreteras,
Reparacion de Puentes y Taller de Mantenimiento, DGP, SCT, October,
1986.
20.   Accounting, Budgetting, and Auditing of CyPF.  December, 1986.
21.   Financial Performance of CyPF.  December, 1986.
22.   Inventory de los Puentes de la Red Federal de Carreteras,
Instructivos y Formatos, DGCOP, SCT, 1982.
23.   Malntenance Workshops, Designs and Layout Plans, DGCOP, SCT,
November, 1986.
24.   SCT's (DGCOP) detailed periodic maintenance program for asphaltic
concrete pavements on the Federal Road Network for 1987/88.
C.  Selected Working Papers
25.   WP-1, Major Sectoral Issues.
26.   WP-2, Analysis of Equipment, Equipment Rehabilitation and Workshop
Requirements.
27.   WP-3, Pavement and Bridge Management Systems.
28.   WP-4, The Transport Sector.
29,   WP-5, Mexico's Federal Highway Network; Status and Needs.
30,   WP-6, Maintenance Organization, Management and Administration.
31.   WP-7, The Mexican Toll Road System.
April 1987



- 124 -
CHART 1
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Organization of Secretariat for Communications and Transport (SCI)
Secretor
Internal Comrmisslon on
AdmIni.Ltration and Programming
I       Gefr   oSo   for   Subsecretary fcr              SubTecoretmy for        A-      mmissionoan
Infrastructure                Operation               C Manennl D   ins a           Procrremera  Office        r DGto  D.o
D G. for               Comsso and                    0G. ofo Civi                    D.G for                  Cmiion on
Planning              Spniictio Price                 Aeronoutics              TelecommunicationsPesnlGrig
D0G 'for                                            D   o   aneac    G for Federal   D0G. for                     D.G. for
Legol Affairs   |f Pubic Works                        Road Transport              Systems Engheering          Fnancia Resources
GD.. for                      f G  or                  D G. tor               D.G for Technogcal |G D.G. for
Pubirc Affairs           Martime Works      _            Railwovs                   Development                   Personnel
D.G fb Rail               D G for Transport                 f.S for                     D.G. for
Intrastructure           Preventaiive Medicine           Special Projects               Materials
DG for                       D G fr                D G. fo Commun
Federal Roadxs             Merchant Marine             Standards and Control
D G.or                    D G to Pot
Rural Roas                   Operotons
omand Development
| DG.forCcoe-rab    |     |    DSG. for Tariffs.
G Rood Cogromn t N             Hondxing and
Road Ptograrn      ~Related Services
D G fot
Airports
0G for
Technical Servies
|Regional Centers            Dredging                       Ferry                 Airtine Teletesesvatlon
SCT                     Servicerv                  vServices                     iSeies
Air Navigatlon
_Services
Note D.S standis for Directorate General 
Source SCO and Bank Staff
November 1986                                                                                                                               World Bank-3406Ol



- 125 -                                                 CHART 2
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT)
Highway Maintenance Organization
of the
Diewa Goo
Traiin                                                  UPngiOf
Unit                         1          
. Directort Diretr f__ cor
for                     IPogmming  and                     to
EquiTent                        Ealicn    ,               
9tDllecta~u~OretO 9                                                           9leco
Technia                        SE s and
1ep#    .        Deparme nt                DDepepaentn
of                              d                                            _ Of o e_ g O
opo                             Eao                          W                  o nAcCounm
Depanrtent                      Departmet                 Deparmn ciDprmn
or ,                                 Of r.cfch ow                                       Of   lD
|                    |       9                       l    |      p ofaw o|f  
Technical Contro |             Stems Eng         |ing     Technical Standards         Person|l
Departrent                      Deprtrnent                 Deprmnent               Depa|rtent
Of                              Of                         Of                  Of SUIVII&
Cost Analwi                     Progarming                   Studiies              and4 SeIes     J
I  Departrent                             |   elr ' n
O           __f                        for M,jnterarnce
Equipinent Controi                          (Policy con siderottons)
Source SCT and Bank Staff
Novemrber 1986                                                                     Wo ra Bonk-3i011 I



- 126 -                                               CHAT 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Orgonization (Typical) Centro SCT
lDltctor
Centro
Sub-Director
wowe
f
Maintenance Otganizatbon
Resident Genera    |                                      supntencnt
mainten                                          Equpent Maente
Techlrd                                                 Supeitrident 
oechicae
C     iord11aw  ofic                                    Superintendent
Rurd Roods                                        Heavy Equpt Repar
AdmrntV       .                                    ESupt Mo'ntencnCt
Resident                                        Communicotions
Maintenance
Residnt                                          Adminion
RecOnst|Ction
Resident
Bidges
Resident
Rural Roads
Source: SCT ond Bank Staff                                   Worl:i Bnk-31011 3
November 1986



111                                                      -      
Ld~ I11"                                                       0f
8                                   a ,
c X           t;fED- t! A- R~~~~~~~~~~~~0
:  i-t            SX        g  t'7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



IBRD 20343
30-I
$                                                  M ~~~~~E XI CO
jv  - t                                                  t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National capital
//                                                         b   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State capitals (Maintenance district headquarters)
w   , A                                                     O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Principal cities or towns
q NwtsoLart ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Divided highways
fFronti' ff,2  \;                                          _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroads
x,  t   , a                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
\ H vvlf; V    / >:i>.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~+ Principal airports
t I tf ) f g uRqs st_. . _ - ~~~~~~~~~~~State boundaries
<--'!em  Internationalboundaries
ty  2    .-t\ l~~~A /<'4 'I 'A C
is  0P-ot0.  
t  T- / JCUMnE  aS Altamira
L                           T iua rmpicO
'nAH. t,   v ~~~~~~~~~tt8>{ ,/A>UZ ~~~~~~~~Merid                                      c-c"n
W                 tVERA    \                                                                g           OaflNUENAA
eel~~~~~ACia                       IVeracrt,0J 
F ~    ~      UrO$C";O-- Taxc                              S A nA              GUATMALA
TaABASHONURO
s~ ~~~DCE8Rt8



