Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2875 ME
                   (Highway Maintenance Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                         PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                      Dated November 4, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2875 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 4,  1987 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL
DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee Agreement), of even date
herewith, between the Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on  the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General  Conditions),  with  the  last  sentence  of  Section 3.02
deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "SCT"  means   the   Secretar—a   de   Comunicaciones  y
Transportes  (Communications  and  Transport  Secretariat)  of the
Guarantor;
     (c)  "DGCOP" means the  Direcci‡n  General de Conservaci‡n de
Obras PÎblicas  (Directorate  General  for  Maintenance  of Public
Works) of SCT;
     (d)  "Federal Road  Investment  Program"  means the five-year
program of investments  in  roadworks,  including maintenance, for
the  federal  road  network  of  the  Guarantor,  prepared  by the
Guarantor for fiscal years 1987 through 1991; "Annual Federal Road
Investment Plan" means any one  of  the detailed, annual plans for
expenditure  which  form  part  of  the  Federal  Road  Investment
Program, prepared by the Guarantor;
     (e)  "Federal Road Maintenance Improvement Program" means the
five-year program  for  routine  and  periodic  maintenance of the
federal paved road and  bridge  network of the Guarantor, prepared
by the  Guarantor  for  fiscal  years  1987  through 1991; "Annual
Maintenance Improvement  Plan"  means  any  one  of  the detailed,
annual plans  which  form  part  of  the  Federal Road Maintenance
Improvement Program, prepared by the Guarantor;
     (f)  "Annual Project Implementation  Schedule"  means any one
of the  annual  list  of  works,  training,  procurement of goods,
equipment, furnishings and services for  each Part of the Project,
including a timetable for  implementation thereof, prepared by the
Guarantor, for each fiscal  year  beginning in 1987 through fiscal
year 1991;
     (g)  "Road User  Cost  Recovery  Scheme"  means the statement
provided by the  Guarantor  to  the  Bank  dated  August 25, 1987,
defining  the  actions  to   recover  the  appropriate  levels  of
rehabilitation and maintenance  costs  attributable  to trucks and
other heavy vehicles;
     (h)  "fiscal year" means  the  fiscal  year of the Guarantor,
currently beginning on January 1 of each year; and
     (i)  "peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
thirty five million dollars ($135,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
Page  3
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement  between  the  Bank and the Borrower for
expenditures made or, if the Bank  shall  so agree, to be made, in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule  2  to  this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars, a  Special Account on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be  made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Transfer of Loan Proceeds
     Section  3.01.  The  Borrower  shall  enter  into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor provid-
ing, inter alia, for:  (i)  the  transfer  to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan for purposes of carrying out the Project, and
(ii) the transfer by the  Guarantor  to the Borrower of such funds
as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges  on  the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall not change or fail
to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
Page  4
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and  the Borrower agree that the obli-
gations set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09  of  the   General   Conditions   (relating  respectively  to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and  land  acquisition) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out  by the Guarantor pursuant to Section
3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  separate
records for the Special Account adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in
connection with the execution of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have such separate records and the Special Account,
               for each  fiscal  year  audited  in accordance with
               generally   accepted    auditing    standards   and
               procedures,  consistently  applied,  by independent
               and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, certified  copies  of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified statements
               of the Special Account; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing the Special Account  and the audit thereof, and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower  and  Guarantor  shall have entered into
the contractual arrangements referred  to  in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank,  namely,  that the contractual arrangements
referred to in  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  have been duly
authorized and are  legally  binding  upon  the parties thereto in
accordance with their respective terms.
     Section 5.03. The date February  2, 1988, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Director General  of the Borrower is desig-
nated as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of
Page  5
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
            PÎblicos, S.N.C.
          Insurgentes Norte 423
          MŒxico, D.F. 06900
          MŒxico
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               BANTECARIO                        BNDSME
               Mexico City                       01772619
                                                 Mexico City
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                      PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                    By /s/ Carlos Sales Gutierrez
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  6
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                60,400,000      39%
     under Part A.1
     of the Project
(2)  Civil works                 9,750,000      39%
     under Part A.2
     of the Project
(3)  Civil works                 1,900,000      39%
     under Part C
     of the Project
(4)  New mainte-                30,000,000      100% of foreign
     nance equip-                               expenditures,
     ment and spare                             100% of local
     parts under                                expenditures
     Part B.1 of                                (ex-factory cost)
     the Project                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)  Spare and                   5,500,000      100% of foreign
     replacement                                expenditures and
     parts, repair                              65% of local
     and rehabi-                                expenditures
     litation of
     equipment under
     Part B.2 of the
     Project
(6)  Goods, furnishings            350,000      100% of foreign
     and equipment under                        expenditures and
     Parts C and D.3                            65% of local
     of the Project                             expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)  Training under              1,400,000      100%
     Part D of the
     Project, including
     local and inter-
     national travel
     and subsistence
(8)  Consultants'                2,500,000      100%
     services under
     Part E of the
     Project
(9)  Unallocated                23,200,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                135,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods, services or  training  supplied  from  the territory of any
country other than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of  the  Guarantor  or  for  goods,  services or training
supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
Page  7
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals for
expenditures under Categories  (1)  through  (8),  in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $13,500,000, may be made on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after November 15, 1986.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve maintenance
capabilities and operations  with  respect  to the federal highway
network; (ii) enhance the  economic efficiency of such operations;
and (iii) promote appropriate highway cost allocation methods.
     The Project is to be carried  out with respect to the federal
paved road  and  bridge  network,  and  consists  of the following
parts, subject to such modifications  thereof  as the Bank and the
Borrower  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve such
objectives:
Part A:   Periodic Maintenance of Roads and Bridges
     1.   (a)  Resurfacing of  approximately  7,000  kilometers of
               roads with asphaltic concrete; and
          (b)  Surface treatment  (chip  sealing) of approximately
               9,000 kilometers of roads.
     2.   Repair and rehabilitation  of approximately 400 existing
          bridges requiring major repairs.
Part B:   Road Maintenance Equipment Replacement and
          Rehabilitation
     1.   Acquisition  and  utilization  of  new  road maintenance
          equipment, including spare parts therefor.
     2.   Repair and rehabilitation of road maintenance equipment,
          including the acquisition and utilization of replacement
          parts.
Part C:   Maintenance Workshops Program
          Construction, rehabilitation  and  equipping (machinery,
          spare parts and tools) of road maintenance workshops.
Part D:   Training Program
     1.   Classroom and on-the-job training  to improve the skills
          of managerial,  engineering,  technical  and field staff
          involved in road and equipment maintenance operations.
     2.   Training of SCT staff involved in maintenance operations
          by means of field  visits,  and study tours and seminars
          of highway maintenance procedures and practices.
     3.   Acquisition and  utilization  of audio-visual equipment,
          furnishings,  training  aids  and  specialized  training
          equipment.
Part E:   Technical Assistance Program
     Consultants' services to assist SCT in:
          (a)  carrying out  comprehensive  road  and  bridge con-
               dition surveys,  field  investigations, and designs
               for pavement and bridge repair and rehabilitation;
          (b)  improving   DGCOP's    maintenance   planning   and
Page  8
               programming; and
          (c)  updating and  strengthening  the  bridge monitoring
               inspection and maintenance system.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1991
     through   September 15, 2002                     5,625,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories  in
Page  9
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Initial Deposit" means an amount equivalent to
ten million ($10,000,000) to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited in the  Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this  Schedule.  The  Borrower  shall  make  withdrawals  from the
Special Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis
of the evidence that  the  Bank  shall have reasonably determined,
and shall debit the Special Account  with the amount in dollars so
withdrawn or with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than
dollars in which the payment was  made, determined on the basis of
the rate of  exchange  between  the  dollar  and  such currency in
effect: (i) on the date each  payment shall have been made, if the
payment has taken place  within  90  days  before  the date of the
withdrawal in question has  been  requested;  or  (ii) on the date
each withdrawal shall have been made.
3.   The Bank may, at  the  request  of  the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the  Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit.  Thereafter, and on the basis
of  requests  by  the  Borrower  furnished  to  the  Bank  at such
intervals as the Bank  shall  specify,  the  Bank shall further so
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account for Eligible Expenditures, but only to the extent that the
amount of any such deposit,  together with any amount remaining on
deposit in the Special  Account  as  of  the date of such request,
shall not exceed, in the  aggregate, the equivalent of the Initial
Deposit.   Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree, each such
deposit after the Initial Deposit  shall  be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Loan  Account  under  the respective Eligible Categories,
and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for a
deposit by the Bank  into  the  Special  Account after the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each
payment made by  the  Borrower  out  of  the Special Account, such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, when the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the Categories,  minus  the  amount  of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by  the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions, shall be  equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the  Initial  Deposit,  the  Bank shall be entitled,
after consultation with the Borrower,  to reduce the percentage of
disbursements for Eligible Expenditures  or  take any other action
which will ensure the Bank  that  by  the time of disbursements of
the total  amount  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  all deposits
(including the Initial Deposit made  by  the Bank into the Special
Account) were made for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall  have  determined that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible  for  financing  by  withdrawal  from the Loan
Account; or (ii) was not  justified by the documentation furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 above,  the Bank shall notify the Borrower
of such circumstances, and if, after  a period of 30 days from the
issuance of such notice,  an  amount  equal  to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified has
not been deposited by the Borrower into the Special Account or, if
the Bank shall so request,  refunded,  to  the Bank, the Bank may,
without in  any  way  restricting  or  limiting  any other rights,
power, or remedy of  the  Bank  under  the Loan Agreement, refrain
Page  10
from making further deposits into such Account.
     (b)  If any amount  outstanding  in  the Special Account will
not  be  required   to   cover   further   payments  for  Eligible
Expenditures, the Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank, and unless otherwise agreed by  the Bank, refund to the Bank
such amount then outstanding in  the Special Account for crediting
to the Loan Account and immediate cancellation.
