Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2875 ME
                   (Highway Maintenance Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated November 4, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2875 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  November  4,  1987,  between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  BANCO  NACIONAL  DE OBRAS Y
SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.  (the  Borrower), having been satisfied
as to the feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project described in
Schedule 2 to  the  Loan  Agreement,  have  requested  the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
thirty five  million  dollars  ($135,000,000),  on  the  terms and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the  Guarantor  agree  to  guarantee  the  obligations of the
Borrower in respect of  such  Loan  as provided in this Agreement;
and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the  Loan  Agreement  with  the  Borrower,  has agreed to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan  Agreement,  constitute  an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to, and  Section  1.02  of,  the  Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
               Guarantee; Transfer of Loan Proceeds
     Section 2.01. Without limitation  to  or restriction upon any
of  its  other  obligations  under  the  Guarantee  Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby  unconditionally  guarantees,  as primary obligor
and not merely as  surety,  the  due  and  punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the  prepayment  of the Loan, and the punctual
performance of all the obligations of the Borrower as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02. The Guarantor  shall enter into the contractual
arrangements with the Borrower referred  to in Section 3.01 of the
Loan Agreement and, unless  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, shall
not change or fail  to  enforce  any provision of such contractual
arrangements.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and to this  end,  shall  carry  out the Project through
SCT, all with  due  diligence,  efficiency  and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial  and engineering practices,
and shall  provide,  in  a  timely  manner  as  needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. The Bank and the Guarantor agree that the obli-
gations set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09  of  the   General   Conditions   (relating  respectively  to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and  land  acquisition) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by the Guarantor.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of goods,  works  and  consultants' services required for
the Project and to  be  financed  from  the  proceeds of the Loan,
shall be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  the  Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Without limitation  to  or restriction upon the
provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes that:
     (a)  it shall review with  the  Bank,  by November 30 of each
year during implementation of  the Project, the proposed budgetary
Page  3
allocations for the next  following Annual Maintenance Improvement
Plan,  including  the  proposed   expenditure  schedule,  and  the
proposed levels of investment  for  the   Federal Road Maintenance
Improvement Program; and
     (b)  it shall provide sufficient  resources to carry out each
Annual Maintenance Improvement Plan.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  prepare and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its review and
comment, by November 30 of  each year during implementation of the
Project, an Annual Highway  Sector  Expenditure Plan and an Annual
Maintenance Improvement Plan acceptable to the Bank, both of which
shall utilize methodologies  and  technical  and economic criteria
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  shall  include,  inter  alia, the
objective  of  achieving   an   appropriate  balance  between  new
construction and maintenance;
     (b)  carry out each Annual  Federal  Road Investment Plan and
Annual  Maintenance  Improvement  Plan  in  accordance  with their
respective terms;
     (c)  monitor the  Annual  Maintenance  Improvement Plan using
the performance indicators  agreed  to  by  the  Guarantor and the
Bank; and
     (d)  by April 30 of  each  year  during implementation of the
Project, review with the  Bank,  the  progress of carrying out the
Federal Road  Investment  Program,  the  Federal  Road Maintenance
Improvement   Program,   the   relevant   Annual   Highway  Sector
Expenditure Plan and Annual Federal Road Investment Plan.
     Section 3.06. Without limitation  to  or restriction upon the
provisions of  Sections  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
shall:
     (a)  carry  out  the  1987-88  Annual  Project Implementation
Schedule agreed to by the Guarantor and the Bank;
     (b)  by April 30 of  each  year  during implementation of the
Project, and at  such  other  times  as  the Bank shall reasonably
request, review the progress of  carrying  out the Project and the
relevant Annual Project Implementation Schedule with the Bank;
     (c)  prepare and furnish to the  Bank, by November 30 of each
year, during  implementation  of  the  Project,  an updated Annual
Project Implementation Schedule, acceptable to the Bank, utilizing
methodologies, and technical  and  economic criteria acceptable to
the Bank; and
     (d)  carry out each Annual Project Implementation Schedule in
accordance with its terms.
     Section  3.07.  Without  limitation  to  its  other reporting
obligations under the General  Conditions  and this Agreement, the
Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank, in a timely manner, quarterly
reports acceptable to the  Bank,  of  the progress of implementing
the Project,  as  well  as  such  other  data  as  the  Bank shall
reasonably request regarding such implementation.
     Section 3.08. The  Guarantor  shall  carry  out the Road User
Cost Recovery Scheme and shall review with the Bank, at such times
as either the Guarantor or the Bank may request, the progress made
toward executing such scheme.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Guarantor  shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
Page  4
in accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices, the operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the Guarantor responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b) The Guarantor shall:
        (i)    have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
               accordance   with   generally   accepted   auditing
               standards and procedures,  consistently applied, by
               independent and qualified auditors;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year a  certified  copy  of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
      (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said accounts  and  the  audit thereof and said
               records  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The Director General  de Crådito PŒblico of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccián General de Crådito PŒblico
          Secretaróa de Hacienda y Crådito PŒblico
          Palacio Nacional
          Edificio 10, P.B.
          06066 Måxico
          Måxico
Page  5
                                            Telex:
                                                1777313-SHDCME
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Jose Luis Flores
                                       Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     New road  maintenance  equipment  and  spare  and replacement
parts  under  Part  B  of  the  Project  shall  be  procured under
contracts awarded in  accordance  with  procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided  in  paragraph  2 immediately below, civil
Page  6
works under Parts A  and  C  of  the Project, and goods, including
furnishings and equipment, under Parts  C  and D.3 of the Project,
and repair and rehabilitation  of  existing equipment under Part B
of the Project shall  be  procured  under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Items or groups of items  related to rehabilitation or repair
of existing equipment estimated  to  cost less than the equivalent
of $25,000 per contract, up  to  an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $750,000 may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of  comparison  of  price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c)
and (d) of this paragraph, the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank
for its  review  and  acceptance,  drafts  of  the following model
documents  prior  to  the  first  tendering  with  respect  to all
contracts for civil  works  and  goods:  (i)  a description of the
advertising,  bid  and  evaluation  procedures;  (ii)  bidding and
contract documents; and (iii) general technical specifications and
design standards.  After acceptance of such model documents by the
Bank and in any  subsequent  tendering using such model documents,
the Guarantor may  submit  to  the  Bank  for  its review only the
modifications to such documents.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  goods,  new road
maintenance  equipment  and  spare  parts  estimated  to  cost the
equivalent of  $500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
With respect to each  contract  for  civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000  or  more  and  each contract for goods
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $250,000  but less than the
equivalent of $500,000, the  procedures  set forth in paragraph 2,
parts (a), (c)  and  (d)  and  paragraph  4  of  Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. When payments  for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (c)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply. When payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (d)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the Project,
the  Guarantor  shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
Page  7
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
