Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19258
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FORA
WATER SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
WATER SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
May 10, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 5
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1998)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso ($)
LC = US$1.00
US$1.00 = LC
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL - Adaptable Program Lending
COFESA - Federal Council for Sanitation
EIRR - Economic Internal Rates of Return
ENOHSA - National Agency for Water and Sanitation Works
GoA - Government of Argentina
ICSID - International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDB - Inter American Development Bank
IFC - International Finance Corporation
INDEC - the Census and Statistics Institute
lpd - liter per capita per day
NBI - unsatisfied basic needs
NPV - Net Present Value
OFWAT - Office of Water Services
OSN - National Agency of Sanitary Works
PMU - Project Management Unit
POM - Project Operational Manual
PSP - Private Sector Participation
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
SPIDES - Water Sector Information System
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Team Leader: Abel Mejia/Yoko Katakura



Argentina
Water Sector Reform Project
CONTENTS
A Program  Purpose and Project Development Objective ..........................................................2
1. Program   purpose and  program   phasing  ..................................................................                      2
2. Project development objective ..................................................................2
3. Key  performance indicators ..................................................................2
B  Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ......... 2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................3
3. Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and strategic choices .................................7
4. Program   description  and  performance triggers for subsequent loans .............................8
C   Project Description  Summary  .................................................................9
1. Project components .................................................................                                              9
2. Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................9
3. Benefits and target population ....................                            ..............................................9
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................ 10
D  Project Rationale .................................................................                                                          12
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ............................................. 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .......  13
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in the project design ............................................. ........ 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .                                   ................................................... 15
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................. I5
E  Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                                   15
1. Economic ................................................................. 15
2. Financial .................................................................                                                      16
3. Technical ................................................................. 17
4. Institutional ................................................................. 18
5. Social .................................................................. 20
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                                      22
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................. 23
F Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                                   23
1. Sustainability .................................................................                                                23
2. Critical Risks ................................................................. 24
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................................                                25



G  Main Loan Conditions ..............................................................                                              25
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..............................................................                               25
2. Other ..............................................................                                                  25
H   Readiness for Implementation ..............................................................                                     25
I  Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................................................                                     25
Annexes
Annex  I          Project Design Summary ..............................................................                             26
Annex  IA         Key Performance Indicators - Utility Based ............................................. 28
Annex IB         Key Impact Indicators - Program  Based .................................................. 30
Annex  IC         Key Impact Indicators - Sector Based ..................................................... 31
Annex 2           Detailed Project Description ..............................................................  32
Annex 2A   Summary of Guidelines for Regulatory Models and Concession Contracts .......... 37
Annex 2B         Potential Beneficiaries of the Program ..................................................... 40
Annex 2C         Table of Content of the Project Operational Manual .................................... 44
Annex 3A.  Estimated Project Costs ..............................................................                                    47
Annex 3B.   Detailed Project Costs ..............................................................                                    48
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .49
Annex 5.  Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities .59
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .70
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .71
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .71
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .72
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .74
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .75
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .77
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .82
Annex  11.   Letter of Development Program  from  the Government of Argentina ................. 84
Map



Argentina
Water Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCC7C
Date: May 10, 1999                                 Team Leader: Abel Mejia, Yoko Katakura
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander          Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: ARPE-6046                              Sector: Water Supply and Sanitation
Lending Instrument: APL                            Theme(s): Reform
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes [x] No
Program Financing Data
APL           Indicative Financing Plan    Estimated Ithplemnentation          Borrower
______ -    Period (Bank FY)
IBRD      Othersi  Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m   %   US$m   US $ m         Date          Date
APL 1              30.0  64      17.1    47.1    7/31/1999     7/31/2002      The Argentine Republic
APL 2              40.0  57    29.9    69.9    1/31/2002       1/31/2004      The Argentine Republic
Total              70.0  60    47.0   117.0
Project Financing Data
[x ] Loan     [I Credit      [  Grant       [] Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 30.0
Proposed terms:   [ ] To be defined     [] Multicurrency     [X] Single currency
[  Standard Variable   [  Fixed           [xl LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           5     Commitment fee:                   0.75%
Years to maturity:             15      Front-end fee on Bank loan:      l%
Financing plan:           [ 3 To be defined
Source                             Local           Foreign            Total
IBRD (Including front-end fee)                          14.6              15.4             30.0
Utilities/Cooperatives                                  17.1                                17.1
Total:                                                  31.7              15.4             47.1
Borrower: The Argentine Republic
Responsible agency(ies): The Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY           2000         2001        2002
Annual       6.0         14.0         10.0
Cumulative       6.0         20.0        30.0
Project implementation period: 2 years
Expected effectiveness date: August 31, 1999        Closing date: July 31, 2002
Implementing agency: ENOHSA
Contact person: Dr. Jorge Rais        E-mail ENOHSAI@INEA.COM.AR
OCS APL PAD Form: February 28. 1999



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing: (see Annex 1)
The program seeks to support water sector reforms in medium-size cities with population of about 50,000,
to 500,000, through the introduction of private sector participation in the operation and management of
water utilities, adoption of appropriate regulatory frameworks, and institutionalization of tariff policies
and tested investment alternatives to reach better poor consumers. While extending the reforms to these
new medium-sized cities, the program also supports resolving the emerging issues of the earlier reform
process in larger cities: weak economic regulation of utilities, slow expansion of services to the urban
poor, and the lack of a well-defined framework to enforce environmental standards. The expectation is
that this reform process will put this segment of Argentina's water and sanitation sector on a sound
enough footing to attract private sector financing in combination with the appropriate role for the public
sector.
The program will be implemented in two phases over a 5-year period. The program will geographically
expand the sector reform over time, by providing technical and financial assistance in medium-size cities.
By the end of the program, it is expected that nearly half of the large and medium-size city water utilities
(at least 22 utilities) will have completed PSP transactions, out of the universe of 58 large and medium-
size cities, and 25 provinces and/or municipalities will have approved the sector regulatory frameworks.
Of these, 9 will have been direct beneficiaries of the financial assistance provided under the program
while almost all will have benefited from the technical assistance and training programs. Annex 2B
provides details of utilities in large and medium-size cities, which would be the potential program
beneficiaries.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The development objective of the first phase of the proposed Water Sector Reform program is to pursue
the program's objectives in about five medium-size municipal and provincial utilities (including two
cooperatives). It is expected that these first five utilities will demonstrate the operational and financial
viability of the program and set the stage for replication to other utilities in the later stages. The first
project, thus, includes actions to continue to prepare the ground for the participation of other utilities,
municipalities and provinces in subsequent stages.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Three sets of performance indicators will be used to measure the success of the program. The first set is
the "utility-based" indicators, which measure the operational and financial efficiency of participating
utilities with PSP and cooperatives. The second is the "project-based" indicators, which measure the
success of the reform program implemented through each project phase. The third set is the "sector-
wide" indicators which are designed to measure the sector wide impact of reforms by establishing
benchmarks such as total revenue generated, taxes paid, and investments made by the sector utilities. In
addition to these impact indicators, a set of indicators was also developed to measure the effectiveness of
the project executing agency. Specific indicators and their targets are presented in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: No. 14278-AR            Date of latest CAS discussion: May 15, 1997
Progress Report No. R98-36, March 17, 1998 and November 10, 1998
Consolidate and deepen structural reforms. The project would address an unfinished part of the CAS
agenda at the sub-national level of government by focusing on the privatization of water utilities, and
reduction of fiscal transfers to inefficient public utilities. The 1995 financial crisis in Argentina provoked



Page 3
by the Mexican peso devaluation opened a window of opportunity for accelerating reforms, supported by
the Bank. This includes the provision of water and sanitation services in the provinces and municipalities.
The proposed project would take full advantage of this by expanding the support available to provinces
and municipalities willing to transfer the water utilities management to the private sector. The project will
build on the technical assistance already being offered to subnational governments under the ongoing
water sector loan (Ln. 3281-AR, Water Supply II) and the World Bank Institute to carry out privatization
processes and regulate utilities, and provide financial support for initial and urgent
rehabilitation/emergency investments in the privatized utilities and other forms of private participation.
At the same time, the program supports the CAS goal of strengthening basic services and improving
welfare by promoting the delivery of affordable water and sanitation services for the urban poor.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sectoral Context. The Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development has confirmed to the
Bank that private sector participation (PSP) continues to underpin the government's strategy to improve
the quality and efficiency of water and sanitation services in urban and rural areas'. While demand for
privatization remains strong, however, the recent experiences in the sector have demonstrated how
complex and difficult a process this is. Most provinces and a large number of municipalities and
cooperatives are therefore increasingly requesting from the Federal Government technical assistance and
financial support to open their utilities for competition, create regulatory agencies and avoid some of the
mistakes of the past.
Argentina's ambitious reform program of the water sector which included the 1993 concession for the
metropolitan center of Buenos Aires, is under considerable stress and still lacks the institutional capacity
to be sustainable. Emerging regulatory issues in Buenos Aires, the low level of investment in the oldest
privatized utility of Corrientes (privatized in 1991), and the premature termination of the concession in
TucumAn, to name just a few, reflect the nature of the problems that should be urgently addressed by the
federal and provincial governments to make this shift to private operation work better. We know from
practical experience in Argentina and research by the Bank and elsewhere that the water sector presents
some of the greatest challenges in privatization, and that this sector has not been as successful as others,
such as telecommunications, gas, transport and electricity. This is both because of the different
characteristics of the sector and the trade-offs to be made in realizing social and financial objectives.
Main sector Issues
* Low coverage andpoor quality of water and sanitation services. Argentina has the lowest share of
population with access to safe water and sewage collection, within its income category. According to
the 1991 census, about 72 percent of the urban population was connected to a water network, and
only 38 percent was connected to a sewerage network. By 1996, according to the sector information
system (SPIDES) developed by the Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development,
coverage indicators in urban centers improved to 81 percent for water and 51 percent for sewage
collection. Only 17 percent of the five million rural population have access to safe water. Water
rationing in summer months is a frequent occurrence in practically all major cities. Quality of
drinking water is sub-standard for most systems supported by shallow aquifers. Existing sewage
collection systems are insufficient to handle increasing flows as more households move from on-site
disposal to conventional network system. This situation is being exacerbated by irrational
consumption patterns and wastage of the vast majority of water supply systems in Argentina
compounded by the lack of adequate tariffs based on metered consumption. The Buenos Aires
concessionaire is facing major overflow problems in one of the four main sewage interceptors of the
city because of these reasons. Moreover, sewerage collection, let alone any degree of treatment even
in major urban centers, is at unacceptably low levels for a country of Argentina's income level.
Policy Letter sent by the Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development, from the Ministry of Economy Public Work-s and
Services July 1997. Confirmed by the Secretary of natural Resources and Sustainable Development, March 24. 1998.



Page 4
*  Low investments. The backlog of investment needs is large, particularly for those related to collection
and safe disposal of sewage and delayed preventive maintenance of water supply facilities2. Current
annual investments (1995 and 1996) of about US$300 million (including US$200 million in Buenos
Aires) are still low. Per-capita investments in Buenos Aires and Corrientes of about US$22/year are
below the targets set in the concession contracts in Argentina. Investment requirements to reach 90%
coverage of piped-water supply and 70% of collection-not including any eventual treatment of
sewage--in urban centers has been conservatively estimated at US$5.3 billion3. To achieve this target
in 8-10 years, more than US$500 million a year of investments in constant terms would be required.
In the past, sector investments have been heavily subsidized, as the revenue generated by utilities has
been insufficient to meet highly inefficient sector operations. Moreover, sector investments under
public utilities are subject to strong political pressures which generally lead to inefficient--and
frequently oversized--investment decisions. The problems of capital investments are compounded by
the costs of switching from individual shallow wells and septic tanks to network facilities4, which are
generally borne by customers. These costs are typically out of reach of the poor customers, and are
resisted by more wealthy customers who do not see the rationale for switching to the network. As
Argentina progresses and eventually faces the problem of sewerage treatment, this gap between
investment needs and capital availability and willingness to pay will only increase.
*  Inadequate revenues, internal cash generation, and efficiency. Average revenue per connection in
Buenos Aires is about US$150/year, for both water and sanitation services. It compares unfavorably
with other utilities of the region (Sao Paulo, Rio, Lima), about US$300/year. The problem is
exacerbated by the prevailing culture of no-payment for water and sanitation services: even if tariff
levels in aggregate are adequate (albeit not efficient nor progressive), low collection rates and high
water losses works against achieving a reasonable level of cash flow. Sector operations are also
highly inefficient. Public utilities are plagued with aging and unmotivated personnel with a labor
productivity index of 150 connections per employee, or lower5. Unaccounted for water is unknown
since the majority of connections are not metered, but presumably is higher than 40%, given the fact
that per-capita water production and treatment capacity in most cities exceeds 400 liters per
person/day. Because of all of these factors, water utilities in Argentina are not able to generate the
cash needed to support a substantive investment program, nor are they able to attract reasonable
levels of equity and/or debt financing that match their investment needs.
*  Weak institutionalframework. The legacy of the inefficient OSN (National Sanitation Agency)
system, dismantled in the early eighties, left the sector in disarray. Ten years later, in the early
nineties, the dismal quality of water and sanitation services in most of the country and the major
overhaul of the public sector provided conditions to initiate the reform of the water utility sector. To
that end, the concession of water and sanitation services in Buenos Aires had a catalytic effect and
provided the overall direction to the reform of the sector. In parallel, the public sector assumed a new
and challenging--but largely unknown--role as a regulator of public utilities. Under the new sector
arrangement, the capacity of the federal and provincial governments to formulate sector policy is still
embryonic. There is no institutional capacity in the government or professional organizations to
provide the normative framework required by water and sanitation activities. Sector apex institutions
are subject to frequent changes of direction, and the institutional priority assigned to water and
sanitation is low, when compared with other utility sectors.
Reform Issues
2The World Bank. Argentina. Managing Environmental Pollution: Issues and Options. October 16, 1996.
Pan American Health Organization. Country Report, 1995.
'Connecting a new household to the water and sewerage network cost about US$1000. In addition, the in-house cost to receive the improve
service could be as high as US$3,000. Water Concession in Buenos Aires: Issues and Propositions. July 1997. Thomas-Olivier Nasser. The
World Bank.
' In the largest utilities of Colombia and Pera, the labor productivity index oscillates between 400-500 per employee. In Brazil, this index ranges
100-200. at best.



Page 5
*  Lack of transparency in privatization processes. Some of the earlier privatization attempts in the
sector faced difficulties because of the lack of transparency in privatization processes. Complex and
subjective bid award criteria, changes in selection criteria midway through the bidding process, and
ill-defined award criteria contributed to long delays in PSP processes in Cordoba and Mendoza, and
it is one of the defining factors in the failed concession in Tucuman.
*  Weak and expensive regulatory institutions and inefficient tariff regimes. The existing regulatory
agencies are, in general, weak, overstaffed with former public utility employees, and without clear
regulatory processes for dispute resolution. They charge regulatory fees ranging from 1% to 7% of
tariff revenue, compared with 0. 14% for the UK's OFWAT. In addition, in most provinces there is a
tendency to replicate the federal model by creating costly single-sector regulatory institutions6. The
prevailing tariff regimes are rigid, do not encourage efficiency, nor address equity issues effectively.
The tariff regime for the Buenos Aires Concession is undergoing a major review to correct this
problem.
*  Poor choice of Award Criteria. When the privatization of the metropolitan water service of Buenos
Aries took place in 1993, it was done on the basis of the greatest reduction being proposed to the
government in average water tariffs, in lieu of any payment or cannon to the government for the
concession rights. At the time, this was heralded as an extremely innovative and highly progressive
way to award a concession, putting the interests of the consumer ahead of the fiscal goals of the
government. However, in actual practice, this method was shown a major flaw in that it has not been
able to be sustained over time. Because the company's cash generation capacity did not turn out to be
as expected, the concessionaire was forced to seek tariff increases-albeit remaining below the
original, pre-privatization level-to finance the investment program. This has severely eroded the
public support and confidence for water privatizations as the promised benefits have not been
realized. More recent water concessions and those being promoted under the proposed program revert
to a more traditional approach, awarding concessions on the basis of the highest cannon, while
respecting the required operational and investment targets.
Lack of clear strategy andfeasible models to expand services to the urban poor in the context of PSP.
Most existing private water concession contracts establish service coverage increase as contractual
targets. However, few of them explicitly require service extension to the poor areas. As a result,
private concessionaires tended to leave out the poor areas. Furthermore, those private concessionaires
which attempted to extend services to the poor urban areas have faced difficulties because of: (i) the
high personal costs which were to be borne by the new consumers for the connections and internal
house remodeling needed; and (ii) the lack of any sort of financial support for these new connections.
Nor was there any effort by the concessionaires to reach out to the communities to understand what
they could afford to pay, test out alternatives which might lower the costs, or seek joint agreements on
how the communities, who had not paid in the past to pay or to use and maintain the systems in the
future.
* Limited participation of risk capital by private investors in water and sanitation utilities. Since the
award of the first water and sanitation concession in 1991, the private sector has shown limited
interest in mobilizing financial resources to the sector. Investments in water and sanitation projects
are frequently lumpy with long amortization periods, when compared to investments in
telecommunications, gas and power. Even the best case for water privatization-the metropolitan
area of Buenos Aries, with some 10 million consumers-has not been able to attract sufficiently long
term financing from private sources and is depending on financing from IFC and the IDB. Smaller
concessions, with a much lower revenue base, are clearly going to be less attractive to private sources.
Thus, concessionaires largely rely on their internal cash generation, which is weak, to finance
investments resulting in unacceptably long periods before targets for services levels are to be reached.
" Argentina. Reforming Provincial Utilities. Issues. Challenges and Best Practice. A. Estache, Et Al. The World Bank. Januarv 22, 1996.



Page 6
* LLack of well-defined contracts and regulatory frameworks for existing cooperatives. More than 300
water systems are managed by cooperatives. These cooperatives are private concessions awarded by
the municipalities, but often do not operate under a well-defined contract or a regulatory framework,
and are often subject to political interference.
Cross-sector issues
* Fragmented water resources management system. Urban water and sanitation services form part of a
large, complex system of water resource management in Argentina, as elsewhere. In the case of
Argentina, river basin management across political boundaries is constrained by the current legal
framework since water resources belong to the provinces in their respective jurisdictions. Inter-
provincial conflicts related to the use of shared resources are increasingly frequent, particularly in the
provinces of Mendoza, La Pampa, Chaco and Santa Fe.
* Complex framework of environmental institutions and regulations affecting the sector.
Environmental management in Argentina is to a large extent a provincial responsibility. However,
under certain circumstances, the national government can assume authority for specific environmental
issues. Normally, the Federal Government enacts laws, and invites provinces to adhere. The province
is free to adopt the law in total or in part, and determines how the law is going to be enforced. The
complexity of the system makes policy formulation and enforcement of environmental regulations
practically impossible to coordinate.
*  Lack ofapolicyframework to address poverty issues. Argentina does not have an integrated and
coherent strategy to provide basic urban services to the poor. Each sector is dealt with separately,
with notable advances in the area of education to upgrade public facilities for poor neighborhoods.
However, investment in municipal level infrastructure-roads, side walks, street lighting, garbage
pick-up and disposal-are left in the hands of local municipalities most of which do not have the
financial or institutional capacity to handle the upgrading needed in these services. Water and
sanitation is in the hands of provincial utilities without any explicit poverty goals and housing is
largely financed through federal transfers to provinces for essentially lower-middle income groups
(who have formal employment). On the other hand, there are numerous programs funded by different
development financing agencies (IDB, UNICEF, etc.) which extend water and sanitation services to
the poor, but with no formal coordination mechanisms. Many of these programs take a paternalistic
approach, where water (often low quality) is provided for free to the poor. There is no common
policy framework for cost recovery, and, as noted earlier, the issue of poverty is frequently neglected
in PSP arrangements.
Government Strategy
The government's strategy recognizes that it has an extremely long road ahead of it to be able to provide
the level and quality of water and sanitation services, especially for the poor, that the country needs. This
strategy must balance the goals of universal service, with due regard to equity, affordability, and fiscal
responsibility. This calls for putting in place the right incentives for conservation, caring for the
environment, and attracting private risk capital.
The first part of the strategy is to promote private operation and management as the key step in restoring
efficiency in the sector. The proposed program, along with what has been done to date, are clear
reflections of that strategy. To achieve efficiency and investment goals in the sector the governments
intends to maximize competitive forces. In the medium-term, the government expects a majority of water
utilities --serving seventy percent of the country's population-- to be opened to for-the-market
competition and subject to comparative regulation through Concessions, leases and management
contracts. In relation to cooperatives, the government would promote adjustments to their corporate



Page 7
structure and regulatory arrangements to introduce competitive pressures on the utilities. A few relatively
well-run publicly managed utilities will remain subject to the same regulatory arrangements as those for
privately managed utilities. The government's vision for sector organization is summarized as follows:
* Long-term concessions in cities greater than 50,000, in about 46 urban centers with a total population
of about 22 million (including 9.1 million in Buenos Aires).
*  Management or lease arrangements for cities between 10,000 and 50,000, in about 100 small cities
and towns with a total population of about 3.5 million.
* Cooperatives in cities with long tradition of such organizations in charge of public utility services
with a population of about 2.5 million.
* Public sector managed utilities in a few relatively well-run provinces and municipalities with a
population of about 1.5 million.
* Operational contracts with the private sector for small and medium-size towns with a population
between 2,000 and 10,000, in about 350 towns with a total population of 2 million.
* Rural population, dispersed and concentrated (about 4.5 million) will rely on cooperatives and users'
associations with a back-stop technical assistance provided by private firms financed by local and
provincial governments.
The second part of the strategy is oriented to modify the existing and highly inefficient pricing system for
water and sanitation services in order to get the signals right, especially to attract future private risk
capital. The government is guided by the following principles: universal metering, two-part tariff with
adequate consideration to the allocation of capacity costs and demand differentiation, automatic
adjustments to account for inflation, and periodic multiyear reviews to address revenue-adequacy
requirements to meet expansion costs and changes in environmental regulation. The Government also
aims at: (i) developing a transparent cross-subsidy system--with minimum price distortions--to achieve
clearly defined poverty and environmental objectives; and (ii) promoting provincial regulatory entities--
preferably multi-sector--following consistent principles dictated by a federal law.
At the same time, the government intends to incorporate explicitly the needs of the poor in the new
concessions and tariff regimes. This will be done, on the short run, by adopting a social tariff, which caps
water and sewerage tariffs for the poor at 5 percent of estimated family income. For typical poor families
in Argentina, with monthly incomes of about $ 120-150, this means water and sanitation bills of about $
7.50 per month. It will also ensure that there are means (mainly through sur-charges) to cover the costs of
connections and possibly to offset the costs of internal house renovations. On the longer term, the
government hopes to evolve a more coherent approach to basic urban services for the poor. The part of
this strategy is being addressed as part of a poverty assessment presently being conducted by the Bank.
The final part of the government's strategy is to work gradually on the issues of water resource
management, starting with analytical work supported by the Bank. These issues should be integrated
progressively into the agenda for water shed management, irrigation and environmental developments in
the sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed project to directly support implementation of the
Government's sector reform agenda. It would support the second generation of PSP arrangements
targeting the improvement of efficiency and expansion of water and sanitation services in medium-size
cities of the country (population between 50,000 and 500,000).
In doing this, the program will address:
* The high risks and commensurate lack of private sector financing for smaller urban centers during the
critical start-up phase of the new concessions (first five years)



Page 8
*  The lack of a coherent approach to tariffs, cost recovery, and financing of service expansion,
especially for the poor
*  The lack of viable alternatives for serving the poor
*  The lack of consistency and transparency in the regulatory framework and concession contracts
*  The institutional weaknesses and lack of technical support for the provincial and municipal authorities
in charge of this process
*  The absence of a national strategy towards a more integrated approach to water resource
management, especially environmental regulations, water quality targets and standards.
The program reflects the strategic choice already made by the government and supported by the Bank in
the past to move from public ownership and management of water and sanitation to a privately led model
of operation. While the past privatizations have demonstrated some flaws, the choice of reverting to
public operation was not seriously considered, choosing rather to improve on the private model.
The key strategic decisions were how to adapt and improve the original approach. What was needed is an
approach which is robust enough to accommodate the multiplicity ofjurisdictions, structures and
circumstances found in the water sector in Argentina, yet one that introduced new rules of the game and
standards based on the lessons learned from the earlier experiences.
Another major strategic choice had to be made on how fast to modernize the sector. Public expectations,
particularly on the rate at which services would be improved and upgraded by the new operators, have
been very high from the outset. In part this was a consequence of how the authorities were able to gain
popular support for the initial privatizations (of all sectors) in the early 1990s. Unfortunately, these
expectations, which are slow to being realized in the case of water and sanitation, are not matched with
willingness-to-pay. Nor were they matched by the private sector's willingness to take risks. The result is
that a strategic choice had to be made to defer and delay investments, particularly in the case of sewerage,
and to seek more cost effective ways of expanding service, especially for the poor. Nevertheless, there
are still a number of long-run strategic choices to be made in the sector, especially as regards to financing
if service levels are going to be significantly improved.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The water sector reform program is a US$117 million program, which consists of two phases over a five-
year period.
Phase I (APL 1): The first phase consists of: (i) financial support to medium-size provincial and
municipal utilities and cooperatives (about 5 utilities), which successfully completed the reform process
(PSP contract signed and/or regulatory framework established); (ii) technical assistance for the reform
process of provincial and municipal utilities to be financed by APL 2; and, (iii) support to existing private
utilities and regulatory agencies, including: (a) a pilot program to extend water and sanitation services to
the urban poor under private concession; (b) a training program for the water utility regulators; and, (c)
technical assistance to establish sector environmental guidelines.
Phase 11 (APL 2): The second phase will continue the support started by APL I and extending support to
additional municipalities and provinces. Lessons learned from APL I will be incorporated in the design of
PSP contracts, as precisely detailed in the minutes of negotiation for the APL I loan:extension of
services to the poor, and design of regulatory framework. APL 2 will be triggered when:
(i) 70 % of APL I is committed (through, for example sub-loan contracts signed with utility operators);
(ii) 5 provinces and/or municipalities enact sector regulatory and environmental frameworks and have an
operating regulatory or other agency; and



Page 9
(iii) 3 provinces and/or municipalities (in cities with population of more than 50,000) sign PSP contracts
acceptable to the Bank and awarded according to competitive procurement procedure acceptable to the
Bank
A long list of participating provinces and municipalities to be counted towards trigger events will be
agreed upon negotiations of each APL. Annex 2B provides details of utilities included in the program
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component             Category            Csts        % of  financing    Bank-
(US$M)      Total   (US$M)   financing
Investment           Physical (new             30.0       63.7      18.0       60.0
concessions)
Physical (other PSP       10.5       22.2       5.5       52.0
arrangements and
cooperatives)
Institutional        Institution Building       5.2        11.0      5.2      100.0
Environmental        Institution Building       1.0         4.2       1.0     100.0
Total Project Costs      46.8       99.0      29.7      63.5
Front-end fee       0.3         1.0      0.3      100.0
Total Financing Required      47.1       100.0      30.0      63.7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The reforms supported by the project are:
* Private sector participation in the management of provincial and municipal water utilities.
- Establishment of sector regulatory frameworks at appropriate levels.
- Establishment of independent regulatory agencies (single- or multi-sector) at provincial level.
• Establishment of regulatory frameworks and clear contracts for existing cooperatives.
* Incorporation of a poverty strategy in PSP contracts and regulatory frameworks.
3. Benefits and target population:
Program benefits are related to the reform of the water and sanitation sector in Argentina. They include
efficiency gains expected from private sector management of sector operations within a sound and stable
regulatory framework; increased and more efficient investments to rehabilitate and expand infrastructure-
-within the incentives of private sector decision making--to meet clearly defined operational and service
targets; and fiscal gains by increased tax revenues and reduced public transfers to water utilities.
Improved operational and investment efficiency translates into more reliable water and sanitation
services, the elimination of water rationing and intermittent water supply during the summer months,
reduction of wastage of water by the establishment of a metered-based tariff regime, improved water
quality for human consumption to meet international standards, reduction of water pollution within a
defined framework of environmental regulations, better services to the poor by the establishment of
service and coverage targets in poor areas within PSP arrangements and better sizing, timing and
technology choice of sector investments through the incentives of private sector rationale.
Furthermore, the program's benefits are expected to reach beyond each phase's direct participants, and
implementation period. In the medium term, the program is expected improve the sector's access to the
private capital markets, by providing much needed credibility in the regulatory environment and by
establishing stability and track records of well designed concession/PSP contracts. In addition, the



Page 1 0
project will also provide credible and acceptable PSP models to be tested under the project, and adopted
by other utilities in the country.
Program scope. Each phase will comprise subprojects for participating provincial and municipal water
utilities, and cooperatives. About 23 sul)projects have been prepared by consulting firms, financed under
on going water sector project (Ln. 328 I-AR) in the following provinces and municipalities: La Rioja,
Chamical and Chilecito (La Rioja); Catamarca; Posadas (Misiones); Formosa; Parana, Concepci6n del
Uruguay and Villaguay (Entre Rios); San Luis and Villa Mercedes (San Luis); Maipu and Lujan de Cuyo
(Mendoza); Santa Fe, Rosario and Venado Tuerto (Santa Fe); Santiago del Estero; Campana and Coronel
Suarez (Buenos Aires); Neuquen; Comodoro Rivadavia (Chubut); and Tierra del Fuego.
Out of the 23 utilities analyzed by consultants, the first phase (APL 1) will finance start-up investment
programs of five reformed utilities of Posadas, La Rioja, Campana, Juana Koslay and Olavarria. Posadas
and La Rioja subprojects are 30 year concession of provincial utilities. Campana, and Juana Koslay are
30 year concession of municipal utilities. Olavarria is a cooperative. All five utilities to benefit from
APLI chose to reform through awarding a 30-year concession contract to private operators. All five
subprojects, except for Olavarria, will be financed under Part A of the project, as described in Annex 2.
Olavarria will be financed under Part B of the project as it is a cooperative.
The detailed appraisal of three sample subprojects demonstrated that while the strategy adopted by the
Government to reform medium-size water utilities was economically and financially sound, it required
some adjustments. After the first evaluation of the proposals in June 1997, some fundamental aspects of
the strategy were revised. The most important adjustments were to reduce over ambitious targets for
sewerage services in the first ten years of the concessions and the introduction of a financing strategy to
expand services to the poor. Annexes 2, 4 and 5 provide further details on the reform strategy of the
government, the results of the appraisal, and the adjustments introduced afterwards.
Targeted population: The program targets 1.7 million, including improved services to about 200,000
urban poor. The urban poor is defined by the Headcount Index of Poverty7 and the NBI indicator
(unsatisfied basic needs) developed by the census and statistics institute (INDEC)°. The
headcount/poverty index in the project areas range from 44.2 percent in el Chaco to 11.7 percent in
Chubut (Argentina's Poor: A Profile, World Bank Report No. 13318-AR). The project addresses the
improvement and expansion of water and sanitation services in poor areas through the following
subcomponents: (i) technical assistance and training to private concessionaires to develop projects with
low-cost technologies and community mobilization ( Institutional Component); (ii) pilot subprojects in
the cities of Rosario (Santa Fe), Formosa and Clorinda (Formosa) and Cordoba to finance investments
targeting a population of about 100,000 (Investment component, part C); and (iii) specific expansion
targets in poor areas included in the investment plans of utilities financed by the project (estimated in
about 10 percent of the Investment Component, part A and B).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Five years for the APL program, and three years for the first APL project,
including six month start-up and wrap-up periods.
Executing agencies: ENOHSA; participating water utilities and cooperatives in all provinces and
municipalities of the country.
The headeount index is estimated using household per capita income which includes wages, salaries, interest and dividends, rents, profits,
pensions, and other transfer income. It may overstate the poverty line since there is an estimated underreport of about 39%.
"Nota sobre algunos aspectos de la pobreza y del saneamiento en la Argentina". Subsecretaria de Recursos Hidricos. Octubre 1995. The
Government of Argentina identifies the poors by the NBI (Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas) index. NBI population should meet one of the
following criteria: (i) more than three in one room (hacinamiento); (ii) quality of housing (families living in one room, cardboard material or
similar, non-permanent housing ); (iii) lack of toilets and excreta disposal in natura, (iv) one child is not attending school; (v) a ratio of more than
four people by employed person; (vi) the head of household has less than two years of schooling at primary level.



Page I 1
Project coordination and oversight: Overall project coordination and oversight is the responsibility of the
Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development. ENOHSA, as a decentralized entity of the
Secretary, will supervise implementation of subprojects through an small team financed by the project.
The Institutional and Environmental Components will be managed by ENOHSA under instructions
provided by the Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development. A detailed description of
the functions and responsibilities of ENOHSA to implement the project is included in the Project's
Operation Manual (POM), prepared with Bank assistance.
Learning and FeedbackArrangements: ENOHSA will also serve as a focal point of exchanging
experiences (best practices and lessons learned), training, and information data base for the sector reform
and regulatory models. To that end, ENOHSA will: (i) organize periodical workshops with the provinces
and municipalities to exchange experiences; (ii) prepare training programs for regulators and decision
makers; and (iii) maintain the sector information system which would be available to the public, including
the potential investors and lenders.
Agreements and guarantees: Project legal documents include a loan agreement between the Argentine
Republic and the Bank, and sub-loan agreements between ENOHSA (in representation of the borrower)
and water utilities. Guarantees for the sub-loans will be provided by the provincial and municipal
government through the Federal co-participation scheme. On case by case basis, however, the Borrower
will accept utility revenue and other financial sources as guarantee.
Sub-loans: Conditions of sub-loans would be 1-2 percentage points above the Bank loan to cover the cost
of the financial administration of the loan by ENOHSA and to absorb the cost of the commitment fee.
Repayment and grace periods for sub-loans would be the same as those receiving for the Bank loan. Sub-
loans will be denominated in US dollars. Detailed procedures for sub-loan applications would be
included in the POM to be agreed at negotiations. A summary of institutional and financial eligibility
criteria is presented in Annex 2.
Decisionflow and processing steps: The process starts with a technical assistance agreement between the
Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development and provincial/municipal governments to
reform the water and sanitation sector, it includes preparation of: a regulatory framework, a draft PSP
contract, a tariff regime, an investment plan with service/quality targets, and bidding documents. Before
the bidding for the PSP is announced, the Project Management Unit (PMU) conducts a detailed
assessment of PSP documents according to principles, guidelines and evaluation models contained in the
Project's Operations Manual (POM). Once a PSP contract is awarded according to procedures acceptable
to the Bank, the utility becomes eligible for a sub-loan application. To that effect, the utility, assisted by
PMU, prepares a sub-loan application following procedures and detailed eligibility criteria contained in
the POM. PMU will assess the technical/financial viability of the proposed subproject, which would be
procured under the private operator is own procedures. Supervision of sub-loans would be made annually
by the PMU with the assistance of financial/technical consultants, and external auditors. Evaluation of
utility's financial/operational performance would be based on compliance to financial covenants and
targets of PSP contracts. Cooperatives and other water utilities could be eligible for the project if they
follow a similar process but with two variations: the regulatory framework--which in most cases already
exist--should be satisfactory, and procurement of goods and works should follow Bank guidelines.
Financial Management andfinancial reporting: ENOHSA will establish a project financial management
system satisfactory to the Bank Water utilities would follow accounting procedures and financial
reporting outlined in the POM, which would be consistent with requirements of the concession contract
and the regulatory framework. Twice a year, (March 31 and September 30) summary progress reports on
the operational/financial performance of the utility, and the implementation of the sub-loan, would be
presented by each participating utility to PMU according to guidelines and formats included in the POM.
External auditors acceptable to the Bank would audit the special account, project accounts and SOEs.



Page 12
Procurement Capacity. A specific procurement capacity assessment was not carried out, as the project
was appraised prior to November 1, 1998. ENOHSA has a group of staff trained to handle procurement
process following the Bank procurement guidelines, as it manages an ongoing Bank project (Loan 382 1-
AR). Nonetheless, ENOHSA staff as well as selected sub-borrowers 'may need to update their skills to
be able to procure in accordance with the latest Bank guidelines
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation would be done by the Bank and
qualified consultants. Participating utilities will submit summary reports to PMU, following formats
included in the POM. PMU will submit the Bank consolidated progress reports on the performance of the
project at the end of each semester ending April 30 and October 30. The Bank would carry out at least
two full supervision missions and one partial supervision mission a year.
Project's Operation Manual: The POM is an essential tool for project implementation. It has been
designed to maintain the institutional memory of the program throughout its implementation life.
Therefore it includes all relevant information regarding the program and procedures to guide the Project
Implementation Unit. An outline of the POM has been included in Annex 2C. Issuance of the POM is a
condition to be met prior to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In assessing the options for how the Bank could continue to support the water and sanitation sector in
Argentina, we discussed the possibility of terminating its support to the sector in Argentina in order to
avoid distortions in the functioning of the market and allowing the private sector to assume all financing.
This approach has been discarded since it wrongly assumes -at least in the case of Argentina under the
present circumstances--that the sector is as attractive for PSP as other public utility sectors like telecom
and power, price signals are right, the regulatory framework is adequate, and markets already have the
capacity to address all sector issues and externalities and generate the incentives for a continuous and
efficient expansion of services.
It was considered that during a transitional phase estimated to last five to ten years, the participation of
the Bank would be justified to expand and consolidate the reform of water utilities in urban centers witth a
population greater than 50,000. During this timeframe, it is expected that most investment
responsibilities in this market segment will be shifted to the private sector. However, for other segments
of the market, particularly for smaller cities and rural water and sanitation systems, the contribution of the
public sector in investments is likely to continue in a more permanent basis.
Project alternatives
* A conventional investment lending project. This alternative was discarded because an APL is more
suitable to support the PSP and reform processes. A conventional investment lending project is not
conducive to an efficient use of resources, in both cost and size. Investment plans supporting this
alternative are normally wrong-headed since the incentives towards efficiency are too weak and
vague. The underlining selection criteria is usually governed by political considerations in favor of
large and visible projects. In addition, reform processes are normally implemented at different pace
across provinces and municipalities, take a long time to implement, and frequently require additional
support in post-privatization phase. APL affords the flexibility that is required to support such
processes.
PSP contracts awarded following the Bank guidelines and approved by the Bank can procure goods and works following their own procedures,
more details are in Annex 6.



Page 13
A A technical assistancepro]ect. Limit the Bank to provide intellectual leadership and finance
consultants to prepare PSP transactions. This alternative was discarded since the GoA recognized
that even in the Buenos Aires concession, non-recourse financing was not feasible. Delays in
addressing key remaining regulatory issues, the lack of experience of regulators, and increasing
political interference in regulatory decision making, generate uncertainty in private investors.
Furthermore, the unreliable information of the privatized utilities, and the lack of a credible track
record at the beginning of concessions, make it practically impossible for private investors to assess
risks.
* A guarantee project to provide partial risk guarantees to protect investors against sovereign risk, and
uncertainties associated with the functioning of economic regulation. This alternative was also
discarded because of its stringent requirements: counter-guarantee agreements, adequate
information to assess the contingent liability assumed by the guarantor and counter-guarantor,
interested creditors, well-defined trigger events to execute the guarantees, and preferably a well-
defined and relatively large investment plan. Moreover, the nature of investments at the early stages
of PSP are a collection of small rehabilitation and emergency actions which are difficult to assess for
project financing purposes. The transaction costs to assess these projects may be too high and offset
any gains from the guarantee operation. The GoA considers that a sovereign guarantee program
would be ideal, in five to seven years, when utilities can meet minimum informational requirements-
-i.e., a track record.
* A sector reform project to accelerate PSP in the sector, while addressing pending issues of the
reform has been selected. The project would provide limited financing for rehabilitation/emergency
investments during the initial years of PSP, and technical assistance to consolidate the privatization
strategy. The GoA considers this alternative combined with APL mechanism the most adequate for
the actual condition of the sector in Argentina. It will accelerate the transfer of a large number of
utilities to private management, while the participation of the Bank is perceived by the private sector
as a key stabilizing factor. The project would be instrumental in addressing some of the key
remaining issues of the regulatory agenda, such as the modification of the current inefficient tariff
regime to one based on metering and incentive regulation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector issue                     Project                       Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Investment and institutional        Water Supply I                  S                 S
development (closed 6/97)
Investment and institutional        Water and Sewerage              S                 S
development (ongoing)               Project
Investments Aguas Argentinas        IFC Loan/equity project
Other development agencies
BID Rural Sanitation
BID I Phase
BID 1I Phase
BID Ill Phase
BID IV Phase



Page 14
BID V Phase
PRONAPAC                           Cofinanced with IBRD
BID VI Phase                       ongoing
BID Loan to Aguas Argentinas       ongoing
BID (FOMIN) support to regulation  Mendoza, S. Fe, BAs
BID Water Sector Reform            Approved by Board
BID Loan to Aguas de Santa Fe      IDB-Private window
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Past Bank Sector Projects in Argentina - Lessons Learned and How they are addressed in Proposed
Project Design
* Subprojects were not well identified during project preparation.
* Public sector utilities had limited capacity in identifying and implementing investment projects
=> Detailed preparatory work will ensure that the project is front-loaded with a significant pipeline of
subprojects at loan effectiveness. Private operators will identify and implement the projects.
+ Loan allocation/reallocation mechanisms were too rigid
* Investments in publicly managed utilities are normally inefficient, do not respond to demand, and
their development impact is lower than expected
=> The investments to be financed by the loan would be competitively allocated and would be driven by
demand. The APL design further enhances flexibility.
- Institutional strengthening programs for public utilities has proved to be ineffective
z'> Institutional strengthening will be carried out by private operators, through different types of PSP
arrangements.
* Provincial Governments had limited capacity and commitment to provide counterpart funds
=> Private operators would be responsible for the provision of counterpart funds and for the amortization
of their respective subloans.
+ Local governments interfered frequently in procurement, thereby paralyzing the processes.
=> Procurement will be carried out mainly by private operators, using their own rules, if concession
contracts are awarded in a manner acceptable to the Bank, or according to the Bank guidelines, in the
case of management contracts, cooperatives, or other types of PSP arrangements.
* Project executing unit at the National Government level had limited capacity to analyze and
administer the loans, supervise project progress, or provide technical assistance to the subborrowers.
* The most successful Bank projects in Argentina have relied on the quality and stability of a strong
Project Management Unit, financed through the Bank loan, with the Bank having a strong say in the
selection of the key staff.
> The Project Management Component of the project will provide financing to maintain and train PMU
staff to carry out these tasks.
PSP experience in Argentina and elsewhere - Lessons Learned
* Strong political commitment to PSP from the top level of the government is important
* Hasty PSP with poor preparation and lack of competition may make things worse (Limeira, Brazil;
Tucuman, Argentina). Proactive action and support by the National Government to solve the
problems and to promote PSP processes in general could be key to establishing investor confidence in
the sector.



Page 15
* PSP without a sound regulatory framework and capable regulators can jeopardize its success. Major
efforts to train and develop regulators are required, preferably before PSP transactions are completed.
*  Where politically feasible and economically efficient, multi-sector regulatory agency at the provincial
level is encouraged, instead of a single sector regulatory agency for every water concession.
* Credible dispute resolution mechanisms, including arbitration, must be included in the PSP contracts.
=> A study to review and develop efficient dispute resolution mechanisms that work in Argentina's
judicial system will be financed through the Project's Institutional Component.
=> Standard clauses on arbitration will be included in the concession contracts.
* The gradual approach to privatization, combined with targeted subsidies for service connections for
the poor, may work well, where there is a clear strategy by the government as in the case of Chile and
a strong institutional base on which to build.
z> As part of the learning process being pursued under the program and consistent with the finding of
the forthcoming poverty assessment, further analysis will be undertaken on the viability of such
financing schemes for Argentina.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Federal Government is fully committed to the strategy supported by the project as indicated in a
Policy which outlines the key principles to reform the water and sanitation sector in Argentina.
Furthermore, throughout project preparation, Bank missions met all major stakeholders of the project and
found considerable support to the project. Stakeholders include provincial and municipal governments,
cooperatives, private investors, financial institutions, water operators, and NGOs. There is a significant
degree of consensus in the Argentinean society over the PSP-led policy of the government to improve
utility services. Commitment and ownership is explained by:
* The policy framework of the project is fully consistent with the sector policies of the GoA and it will
be adopted for all sector financing supported by the Federal Government.
*  Since mid-1996 the borrower assembled a high-quality multi-disciplinary team to prepare the project
and initiate its implementation.
* Provincial and municipal authorities have signed agreements with the former Subsecretariat of Water
Resources of the Secretariat of Public Works to participate in the project and have agreed to follow
their guidelines for PSP and regulation.
* By December 1998, nine cities had approved the regulatory frameworks for PSP, and four had
awarded long-term concessions.
* The policy framework supported by the new IDB-financed project for the sector, approved by the
Board in December 1998, is fully consistent with the agreement reached by the Bank and the
Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Introduces transparency to the privatization process.
* Brings privatization experience and intellectual leadership from elsewhere in the world.
* Brings techniques and experiences in extending water and sanitation services to the urban poor on a
large scale.
* Brings management discipline to the project.
* Bank financing will act as a catalyst for private sector financing.
*  Establishes credibility for the sector information system to be developed through the project.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see
Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[ x ] Cost-Benefit Analysis



Page 16
[ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[ ] Other (specify)
A cost-benefit analysis was used to determine the viability of: (i) the 5-year investment program that will
be partly financed by the Bank; (ii) the sector reform as a whole; and (iii) the financial and operational
targets that were set for the private operators in charge of the utilities during a 30-year concession. .
To determine the viability of the 5-year investment program and the reform program, a representative
sample of nine subprojects, four of which would be financed by the APL 1, was analyzed. We conducted
a cost-benefit analysis by comparing "with reform" scenario with "without reform" scenario. In the "with
reform" scenario, the management of the utilities will be transferred to private operators. The "without"
project scenario assumes "business as usual" with no changes in the current performance of the utilities.
The investment programs analyzed were proposed by independent consultants as the most likely
investment program a private operator would undertake to comply with the operational targets set forth in
the draft concession contracts. The financial flows of cost and benefits were adjusted for the impact of
taxes and subsidies. In addition, the water and sewerage investments were assessed separately to
determine whether all project components were economically viable. The total economic NPV for the 5-
year investment program of the nine subprojects is US$223 million, while that for the 30-year concession
is US$237 million.
Second, we also used a "reform-oriented" cost-benefit analysis to determine the impact of "reform". The
conventional approach to analyze the financial and economic viability of specific investment programs, as
described above, does not completely capture the costs and benefits of the proposed program that aims to
support sector reform. The viability of the reform program as a whole was determined by taking into
account the costs and benefits to establish a properly functioning regulatory framework as well as the
transaction cost associated with the change from public to private management. Under reform-oriented
analysis, the conventional approach to assess the different project components separately was not used
either, as sector reform is considered to be a comprehensive solution to improve the efficiency of the
delivery of water and sanitation services by a private operator. The reform-oriented approach also placed
higher emphasis on distributive analysis, with the understanding that if there are major losers from
reform, the reform is not sustainable. We applied this "reform-oriented" cost benefit analysis to a sub-
sample of three utilities, representing different APL phases. The analysis, as presented in Annex 4,
showed that sector reform is viable for all three utilities. The EIRR for the subsample is about 21 percent.
Government, shareholders, society, and customers would all stand to gain from sector reform.
An important dimension of the cost-benefit analysis was to assess who benefits and who pays for the
benefits. The analysis conducted on the sample concessions shows very clearly that the government
gains, as it is relieved of the burden of paying for the losing services and receives increased tax revenue
and canon payments. The new operators also gain, as they are running profitable utilities. The analysis
further shows that existing consumers are the ones who pay, mainly through increased collections,
metering, and improved billing (as aggregate tariff levels are not assumed to increase). In turn they get
better quality of service. Nevertheless, it is clearly the case that fewer "free-riders" to the system will be
able to enjoy water and sanitation without paying. New consumers stand to gain, as they are likely to
have now access to services which are more costly or of poorer quality. Some of these, however, will not
recognize the positive gain, and see only the costs unless they are persuaded that their present services is
not a viable option on the long-run. Society as a whole is expected to gain because of collective
improvements to the environment and health standards.
A more detailed description of the methodology, assumptions and results of the analysis are presented in
Annex 4
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)



Page 17
Financial assessment of the future concession/PSP companies was carried out to: (i) assess the financial
feasibility of the concession/PSP structures, as proposed by the provinces and municipalities; (ii) assess
the debt service capacity of the potential borrowers and their eligibility for the loan; and (iii) determine
the main risk factors and the sensitivity of these factors to the overall feasibility of the concession/PSP.
The cost-benefit analysis as described above determined the viability of the reform program on
incremental basis (net benefits from reform; i.e., the difference between "with" and "without" reform
scenarios). The financial assessment then determined the viability of the reform program as proposed
("with reform" scenario), mainly to determine the viability of the concession/PSP structure from the point
of view of the investors and lenders. We considered that the concession companies are financially viable,
when: (i) NPVs of the utility operations (cashflow) and the net returns to the shareholders are positive;
and (ii) the main financial indicators (debt service coverage, debt equity ratio, and liquidity ratio) of the
utilities are expected to remain sound throughout the life of the concession.
Like the cost-benefit analysis, financial projections and valuation models were prepared for a sample of
nine provincial and municipal concessions and cooperatives, four of which comprise the group of project
beneficiaries. Of the nine, we selected three utilities (same sample as cost benefit analysis) and conducted
a more detailed financial assessment, including risk analyses, the results of which are presented in Annex
5. All three sample utilities chose 30-year concession as their model for reform. As privatization (PSP)
transactions had not yet taken place, financial projections were prepared based on the physical and
operational targets, financial structure, starting tariffs, etc. set forth in the draft bidding documents.
All three utilities analyzed in detail were found to be financially feasible after some adjustments were
made to the concession structures. Concession structures initially proposed needed adjustments as service
and investment targets were too ambitious. The sensitivity and risk analyses showed that the viability of
the concessions is largely dependent on: (i) rate of return expected by the investors (discount rate); (ii)
consumption per capita (revenue); (iii) operating costs; (iv) investment costs, and (v) bill collection rates.
All participating utilities must commit to achieve a minimum level of financial indicators (demonstrate in
financial projections that it would achieve the level in the first year) to become eligible for the sub-loan.
The financial and other eligibility criteria are presented in Annex 2 A more detailed description of the
methodology, assumptions and results of the analyses are presented in Annex 5.
As noted above, the net fiscal impact of the project is positive as the Government gains from: (i) canon
(license fee income); (ii) savings from not having have to transfer funds for investments and operations of
public utilities; (iii) increased income from income tax paid by private operators; and (iv) increased VAT
income due to increased sales of water. The net fiscal impact to the Government from the utility reform
in the sample local governments (Parana, Posadas, and Villa Mercedes) are estimated at positive US$44
million, net of subsidies required to address the issue of the poor and environment.
3. Technical:
Generally speaking, the investments to be financed under the program are anticipated to involve fairly
routine and standard upgrades and rehabilitation to the existing system in each of the participating areas.
The technical assessment of the individual investment programs has been executed by consulting firms,
the Project Preparation Team at ENOHSA, and Bank staff. Consulting firms, financed under loan 3281-
AR, prepared the reform programs for about 23 utilities willing to subscribe to the reform agenda of the
Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development. The reform program for each utility
consisted of a PSP strategy, a regulatory framework of water and sanitation services, and bidding
documents for PSP. Based on the documents prepared by consultants, provincial and municipal
governments engaged in an intense debate to obtain consensus on the detailed reform model to be
adopted, which requires legislative approval. The analysis prepared by consultants also included a
technical evaluation of the service provided by each utility, a proposal for investment and service targets,
the economic and financial evaluation of the viability of the proposed reform program, and an inventory



Page 18
of existing environmental regulations and environmental issues pertaining to water and sanitation services
in the corresponding locality.
The consultants presented detailed estimates for 5-year investment programs--and service targets--
amounting to US$382 million for the first 5-year period, and aggregate investments for a time-horizon of
30 years of about US$1.2 billion for the 23 utilities. To prepare the investment and service targets, the
assessment included a diagnosis of the existing operational infrastructure to estimate rehabilitation
requirements, and investment estimates for different scenarios of service and operational targets. Detailed
terms of reference for the consultants assignments are in project files. Additionally, draft guidelines to
expedite preparation of reform programs for water utilities were prepared by the Project Preparation Team
with Bank assistance. The guidelines were discussed with Bank staff from the private sector department
and with the consultants selected to prepare reform programs. A summary of the guidelines are presented
in Annex 2 A.
The Project Preparation Team supervised the work of consultants and conducted the evaluation of nine
utilities, all in advanced stage of the reform process (Campana, Catamarca, Maipui, San Luis, Villa
Mercedes, Posadas, La Rioja, Parana, and Comodoro Rivadavia). The evaluation methodology followed
by the Project Preparation Team included an economic and financial model which required an assessment
of the operational capacity of existing facilities, preparation of simplified line-diagrams for all major
system components, cost estimates for key investments, and a consistency analysis of investment costs
and service targets. A reform program for each of the nine utilities has been further tested through a
detailed questionnaire--check-list--of about 70 items. The five year investment program of the nine
utilities amounts to US$191.7 million and will benefit a population of 1.28 million. The level of
investments are about US$26 per capita per year, and US$29.5 million per utility. Investment programs
and operational and service targets for the initial 5-year period assigned priority to water systems, to
restore the service capacity of existing infrastructure, and to high revenue-impact investments. For
investments in low-income areas per-capita ceilings of US$100 and US$120 for water and sewerage
respectively, were used. Summary reports for each of the nine utilities and for low-income subprojects are
in project files. The reports include a summary technical assessment, investment analysis, key
assumptions and results of the economic/financial assessment, and the reform check-list. The check-list
for the regulatory model and concession contracts is also presented in Annex 2 A.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Executing agencies are the water utilities under different types of PSP
arrangements and cooperatives.
The executing capacity of the private operators are deemed sufficient to effectively carry out the project.
This assessment is based on the fact that the three private concessionaires, Aguas Provinciales de Santa
Fe, Aguas de Formosa and Aguas de Santiago del Estero, have been effective in executing about US$50
million of investments, partially financed by the Bank under Loan 3281-AR. The concessionaire in
Buenos Aires, Aguas Argentinas, is also successfully implementing a US$100 million investment
program financed by IDB. These investments correspond to decisions made before the PSP transactions,
and they were successfully carried-over to the private operators. The efficiency incentives brought by
private sector management have been considerable. In the case of Santa Fe, the sizing and technology to
expand the water treatment capacity in Rosario was changed by the concessionaire to a more efficient
solution, faster to implement than the solution proposed by APOS, the former publicly-managed utility.
Issues related to counterpart funding practically disappeared, as well as the bureaucratic processing of
work certifications and payments.
On the other hand, the executing capacity of cooperatives vary and the program must be selective in
including this form of private operation. Cooperatives are private associations based on the principles of
no discrimination in which each member represents one vote in the shareholders meeting. They are
governed by Law 20,337 of 1973, which allows for new members to sign on with only 5 percent of the



Page 19
value of a share, and 5 years to pay for the rest cooperatives provide services to a total population of
about 2.5 million. In general, cooperatives provide a better service than provincial and municipal utilities.
Their technical staff tend to be well-trained and stable, but management is frequently changed following
annual shareholders meetings, frequently controlled by local politics. Cooperatives have a long and
important tradition in the provision of public services in Argentina (power, water and sanitation, telecom,
banking, funerary services, etc.). In some provinces, cooperatives started to provide public services more
than one hundred years ago, even before local and provincial governments existed (Chubut). Cooperatives
are particularly strong in the provinces of Chubut, La Pampa, Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, Cordoba and
Misiones. They provide water and sanitation services in 570 localities of which 330 are medium to small
cities'0. As a part of project preparation, cooperatives have been assessed" in terms of its governance
structure and commercial orientation. The sub-project eligibility criteria for participating cooperatives
include separation of operational and regulatory functions, and adoption of the provincial regulatory
framework prepared under the project.
All executing agencies will be evaluated and monitored during the implementation of the project through
simple and practical methodologies and indicators included in the Project Operational Manual.
b. Project management. Overall project management will be carried out under the guidance of the
Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development. Policy formulation, including coordination
with provincial and municipal governments, would also be under the responsibility of the Secretary of
Natural Resources and Sustainable Development, assisted by ENOHSA. ENOHSA would be the financial
and implementing agency. ENOHSA will supervise the implementation of subprojects through a team of
eight consultants financed under the loan. ENOHSA, as a specialized institution to assist the water and
sanitation sector, has qualified technical staff. It also has experience with Bank procedures regarding
procurement, disbursement, reporting, and auditing. Detailed description of the functions would be
included in the Project Operational Manual. Although the Bank project team will try its best to maintain a
capable project management team at ENOHSA some changes in its members may be inevitable. In order
to minimize the risk of disruption in the project management, the Bank project team will organize
periodical training sessions on various aspects of project management, in conjunction with supervision
missions.
c. Sector management. There has been generally overall weak management and leadership in the water
and sanitation sector, reflecting its fragmented nature, the highly autonomous nature of the operating
entities, and the poor institutional incentives for collective action across jurisdictions. The organization of
the sector at the Federal level has suffered several changes in the past few years, two since June 1997.
The latest reorganization was in January 1998, and provided the Secretariat of Natural Resources and
Sustainable Development with a clear mandate to consolidate all functions of the Federal Government
related to the formulation of water sector policy, including public sector financing of water-related
infrastructure. This consolidation included the functions of the Federal Government related to the water
and sanitation sector, formerly under the Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development
and Services of the Ministry of Economy. This latest change provides much needed clarity to the
functioning of the Federal Government in the sector since it eliminates ambiguity and overlap that existed
in the previous institutional arrangement. ENOHSA, reporting to the Secretary, would be responsible for
project implementation including the responsibility as financial intermediary. COFESA (Federal Council
for Sanitation) would provide the coordination mechanism with provincial governments regarding sector
policy and resource allocation.
"' Distribution of cooperatives providing water and sanitation services ,according to city size, is the following: one greater than 100,000
(Comodoro Rivadavia, Chubut); one betwen 50,000 and 100.000 (Trelew, Chubut); 10 between 20,000 and 50,000; 24 between 10,000 and
20,000; 61 between 5,000 and 10,000; and 232 between 2,000 and 5,000. For a total population serviced by cooperatives of about 2.5 million.
Sistema SPIDES, Subsecretaria de Recursos Hidricos, Mayo, 1997.
" Evaluacion de las Cooperativas prestadoras de Servicios de Agua y Saneamiento. Analisis General y Evaluacion de 6 casos. Dr. Juan Antonio
Zapata. Noviembre 1997.



Page 20
During project preparation the capacity of ENOHSA has been assessed. It manages three IDB projects
and the Water and Sewerage Project (Loan 328 1-AR) financed by the Bank. It also manages about US$10
million a year of small grants, funded through the federal budget, to finance water and sanitation systems
mainly in rural communities. Thanks to the recent restructuring, ENOHSA is now much more efficient. It
manages investment programs amounting to US$40 million per year with an operating cost of US$4
million, and with 70 staff (including 20 consultants and 50 civil servants affiliated to the union of water
and sanitation workers).
5. Social:
Background. A program-specific social assessment has not been conducted. However, as part of program
preparation a number of consultative meetings were held with a variety of stakeholders of the program:
provincial and municipal governments, provincial and municipal utilities, cooperatives, regulators, private
operators, financial institutions and investors, service-users, NGOs and community-based organizations.
UNICEF provided support to prepare the project component dealing with the extension of water and
sanitation services in low-income areas. Bank missions visited several UNICEF-led projects in poor
neighborhoods in Resistencia (Chaco) and Formosa, which are among the few successful experiences
with low-income sanitation and community participation in the poorest provinces of the country. While
all provinces and municipalities of the country can become eligible for financing under the project, most
of the 23 utilities analyzed by consultants are in the poorest regions of the country. The program is
expected to benefit a population of about 1.7 million, of which 200,000 are the poor. By the end of the
program, an additional 100,000 sewerage connections would have been added for the poor.
The key issues affecting society are who pays and what the impact of sector reforms will have on the
poor. Past experiences in Argentina clearly show that these social concerns must be addressed in the
design of the concession and the related tariff structure and adequately communicated to the affected
populations. While urban coverage is relatively high-about 94 percent-water supply service provided
to the poor is generally of low quality with frequent interruptions and substandard facilities. For instance,
about one million poor in metropolitan Buenos Aires are connected to shallow wells with a high
concentration of nitrates. Sewerage collection is very low in Argentina when compared to other countries
of similar incomes: among the poor, only 34 percent of households are connected to sewerage networks,
31 percent discharge to septic tanks, and 31 percent to latrines.
Private water concessions granted in Argentina since 1992 have adopted poorly designed approaches to
service the poor, if at all. For instance, even though the water concession in the province of Santa Fe
established a declining operational subsidy'2--provided by the province to the concessionaire--for bulk-
supplied water of 40 lpd per person, which corresponds to about US$1.7 per connection per month in
poor neighborhoods, capital investments in secondary network and individual connections were to be paid
by the beneficiaries. Results of this approach are: (i) the government does not pay the subsidy; (ii) the
concessionaire supplies much more than 40 lpd; (iii) beneficiaries can not afford improvement/extension
of distribution system; (iv) water is wasted in leaking pipes and substandard connections, and (v) users
have a low-quality service. As a consequence, social discontent has grown as well as opposition to the
private-led model for water utilities.
In Buenos Aires, a similar experience was encountered. While expansion of primary infrastructure is
charged to all users, expansion of secondary network and connection costs, according to the original
concession contract, was to be financed by individual beneficiaries through a "infrastructure charge"'3. It
established that users of new connections (most of them poor) needed to pay a capital cost of US$415 and
1Bidding Documents, Regulatory Framework and Concession Contract. Water Concession in the province of Santa Fe. 1995. Componente
Extension/Mejoramiento de Servicios de Agua y Saneamiento en Zonal Urbano Carenciadas. UNICEF Argentina, July 1997
"Bidding Documents, Regulatory Framework, Concession Contract. Water Concession in Greater Buenos Aires, 1993. Regulatory Decisions
(ETOSS) 1994-1997. Water Concession in Buenos Aires: Issues and Propositions. Informal Note. The World Bank, 1997.



Page 21
US$606 for water and sewerage respectivelyt4. The concessionaire offered a repayment period of two
years with monthly payments of up to US$48 for those with new water and sewerage connections. These
payments represent about 20% of family income of the poorest, and 10% of those under the poverty line.
This situation was not affordable and the poor customers resisted payment, forcing the concessionaire to
stop expansion in the poor neighborhoods. In November 1997, the government resolved the issue by
eliminating the infrastructure charge and replaced the revenue loss of the concessionaire by a fee for
expansion and environmental improvement added to the fixed part of the tariff 15, and charged to all
customers.
In Tucuman the water concession awarded to a consortia led by General-dex-Eaux (now Vivendi) was
prematurely terminated in October 1998. The concession faced problems from the outset, and now is
subject to an arbitration process by ICSID. Key problems included the timing of the award (a few months
before provincial elections), alleged corruption by the new administration, unrealistic investment targets,
and the drastic increase in water bills of about 100 percent, and an absence of any explicit strategy to
address the service extension to the poor. In January 1995, shortly after the concessionaire started
operation, it accidentally supplied low quality water. Once it lost credibility with the provincial
government and the public, the concession faced a series of crises including a public campaign led by
elected officials recommending not to pay the water bills. Several attempts, supported by the Federal
Government and the Bank, were made to save the concession but failed in the absence of legislative
support.
Since October 1998, ENOHSA has been operating the utility under an interim management arrangement
partially financed by a Bank loan. Under the interim arrangement, tariffs are reduced to the pre-
privatization level and the collection rate improved to 60 percent. On the other hand, investments are
minimal, and revenues of about US$1.5 million per month do not cover operational expenditures of about
US$1.8 million. The provincial government is currently preparing a new bidding document for the
second long-term concession which is expected to be announced after the provincial elections of May
1999, and will be supported by the proposed Program.
Project strategy and policy recommendation. The project intends to address these issues trough the
following strategies. First, by improving the capacity of the Federal Government to formulate sector
policy, including the detailed design of a subsidy system to improve/expand water and sanitation to the
poor; and by keeping a backstopping capacity to assist provinces and municipalities to resolve conflicts
emerging from the reform process. Second, by training regulators and policy makers to address issues
related to universal service and subsidy policy. Third, by formulating specific targets in existing PSP
arrangements to extend services to the poor within affordable levels. Fourth, by supporting development
of credible models to service poor neighborhoods within private concessions. The fourth strategy is
supported through the poverty pilot program (part C of the investment component) to be implemented
together with private concessionaires. The pilot will develop a model where private concessionaires can
extend water and sanitation services to the poor in a more effective and sustainable way, with strong
community participation and using low-cost appropriate technologies.
The preparation of the project has been quite instrumental in assisting the government to clarify the issues
related to the expansion of water and sanitation services in poor areas within private concessions. As a
consequence, specific policy prescriptions have been adopted and reflected in the standard concession
documents. They include: (i) replacement of the infrastructure charge with a fixed fee charged to all
existing customers; (ii) establishment of a social tariff for water and sanitation services which should not
exceed five percent of the monthly family income for NBI dwellers; and (iii) adoption of the license fee
criteria (canon) to award concessions and make provisions to use the proceeds of the canon to directly
14 Infrastructure charge is divided in two concepts network (secondary pipes) and connection (connection and water meter). It corresponds to
US$415 and US$207 for water, and US$606 and US$583 for sewerage.
S It represents about US$2 per each service per month. Acta Acuerdo, Secretaria de Obras Publicas, Secretaria de Medio Ambiente and Aguas
Argentinas, November 1997.



Page 22
subsidize the poor. In addition, as part of the preparation of new water concessions, specific targets for
service expansion in poor areas have been established.
Service to the poor: guidelines for new concessions
*  Identify the number of poor families (monthly family income below two minimum salaries or an
equivalent NBI indicator).
* These families should be charged a fixed tariff of no more than three percent of monthly income for
water and five percent for water and sewerage combined. This fixed tariff allows for approximately
10/15 M3 of water per month, controlled by a volumetric device when economically viable to the
operator
*  Connection fees should be about US$100 (about US$50 for each service) which is financed by the
utility in one year at no interest
6. Environmental assessment:           Environmental Category   [ ] A      [x] B       C
Since most investment subprojects financed by the project will be rehabilitation of existing water systems,
the project would not have any significant negative environmental impact. The project would, however,
ensure proper environmental screening and enforcement measures to prevent any investments from
producing negative effects on the environment. Moreover, the reform program supported by the project
has established targets for safe disposal and treatment of sewage in a time period of 15-25 years,
depending on the investment requirements by each utility. No involuntary resettlement is envisaged. The
project will have no impact on international rivers.
Argentina has more environmental pollution than one would expect in a country of its income level.
These problems result from intense urbanization and industrial development, combined with an
inadequate regulatory framework and a long-standing deficit in sanitary and waste treatment
infrastructure. Fragmentation of institutional responsibilities and lack of coordination have led to an
uneven and confusing regulatory and institutional framework for environmental management16. Relatively
high morbidity and infant mortality rates in certain areas of the country (pockets of low-income
population in metropolitan areas and in northern provinces) related to water pollution is a direct
consequence of the low coverage of sanitation services, high unmet demand for safe disposal and
treatment of sewage, poor quality of drinking water, and lack of sanitary and health education. In 1995,
the costs associated to diarrhea were estimated in seven million pesos17 corresponding to 970,000 cases
registered by the National Epidemics Monitoring System. In large areas of the country, in Santa Fe,
Cordoba, Chaco, la Pampa and Buenos Aires, drinking water has a high content of arsenic and fluor.
Environmental regulations governing water and sanitation operations in Argentina are weak and
frequently overlapping among federal, provincial and local governments. According to the constitution
provinces are responsible for water and sanitation services, for natural resources within its jurisdiction,
and have to police enforcement of environmental regulations. The Federal Government establishes
minimum standards for environmental protection, which provinces can complement. During project
preparation a proposal to develop a more coherent framework of environmental regulations for the water
and sanitation sector has been developed'8, through a consultation process with sector operators, sector
regulatory agencies, and NGOs. Environmental regulations would be applied to: (i) regulatory
frameworks governing sector operations; (ii) PSP contract arrangements; and (iii) specific investment
subprojects. The project would also finance studies to update key standards including those for sewage
IG Argentina. Managing Environmental Pollution: Issues and Options. October 16, 1995. World Bank Report No. 14070-AR
1' The World Bank estimated the treatment cost of diarrhea in US$30 and the cost to labor in US$60 per day. Argentina. Managing
Environmental Pollution: Issues and Options.
'" Analisis Ambiental Sectorial. S. Alcaraz, A. Calcagno and E. Sanchez. June 1997.



Page 23
and sludge disposal, guidelines for environmental monitoring and contingency plans, training in
environmental auditing at the Federal and local government levels, and a prototype water quality
management study for the Salidulce river basin.
Of particular concern to the government and the Bank is to ensure adequate water and sewerage services
in the city of Posadas, as part of the mitigation plan for the Yacyreta Hydro-electric Dam project.
Sewerage expansion for Posadas has therefore been included in the project as a part of the compensatory
investment actions required to address the environmental issues generated by the Yacyreta project.
Contracts to build a primary treatment sewage plant and major interceptors have been awarded under
another Bank-financed project - Loan 3520-AR. The proposed project would finance expansion of the
sewerage network, and inter-connections to interceptors. For both projects, the Bank loan will be given by
the Federal Government to the Posadas water utility as capital grants. As a result, the current sewerage
tariff in Posadas of US$0.4 1/M3 --which includes treatment costs and priced to cover the additional
sewerage investment costs associated with Yacyreta project --is expected to be reduced to about
US$0.28/M3. The issue of low willingness to connect to the sewerage network because of the relatively
high cost of fixing in-house plumbing would be addressed through a combination of several policies: (i)
connections through the backyard when technically feasible and socially acceptable, to reduce the cost of
plumbing; (ii) mobilization of house improvement micro-credits or grants (means tested) supported by
other municipal programs, private institutions and NGOs, and (iii) partial compensation to the operator to
maintain the incentive for continuing to expand sewerage services.
7. Participatory approach: (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable)
Identification/    Implementation        Operation
Preparation
IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL
IS, CON         IS, CON, COL      COL
Beneficiaries/community groups CON, COL      CON, COL
Local government CON,COL         CON,COL           COL
Other donors IS, CON         IS, CON           IS, CON
Private Operators IS,CON,COL    IS,CON,COL         IS,CON,COL
UNICEF IS,CON,COL    CON, COL              COL
Private financial institutions IS, CON, COL    CON, COL     COL
Regulators IS, CON, COL    CON, COL          COL
IS: Information Sharing    CON: Consultation      COL: Collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Main factors which contribute for the sustainability of the project are:
*  Selection of private operators through transparent competition "for" the market is based on the most
efficient price to provide water and sanitation services.
*  There is a sufficient number of bidders for competition.
*  Adequate regulatory frameworks are in place.
*  The project will finance already privatized utilities with a 30-year operating and planning horizon and
a well-defined, and realistic, first 5-year investment plan.
*  The tariff level at the time of the bid award is consistent with utilities' commercial viability, and the
new tariff level and structure based on consumption are clearly communicated to the community prior
to privatization.



Page 24
* The tariff level to award PSP contracts is consistent with the long-run operating horizon, and
particularly with the investment targets for the first 5 years of private operation.
* A proactive strategy and a credible mechanism to address the issue of expanding services to the poor
are developed and implemented.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                     Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
From Objective to Purpose
Lack of credibility of legal system and judiciary M      Development and use of guidelines
apparatus                                               and checklists for sector regulatory
framework.
Companion support from the World
Bank Institute on training regulators
Companion support under SSAL to
improve the regulatory system
Limited interest from local and international    S       Preparation of well-designed PSP
investors in the W&S sector in Argentina                bidding documents and contracts.
Availability of Bank financing for
the first five years.
From Outputs to Objective
Opposition to privatization from population,    S        Adequate marketing, realistic initial
politicians, unions, etc.                               assumptions, moderate expectations
Adequate promotion of the reform
prior to PSP.
Failure to address the culture of non-payment of S       Adequate mechanism to address the
water.                                                  issue of the urban poor.
From Components to Outputs
Management changes in the sector agency.  M              The project is consistent with the
GoA strategy and should be
continued albeit with some delays
immune to management changes
Delays in the procurement of PSP          S              Close supervision of process and
timely support
Corruption in the procurement of PSP.     M              Transparency in awards
Independent evaluation of bids
Lack of interest from private investor in project S      Flexible design of the project to
supported utility privatizationss                        adjust for pace of interest in the
sector.
Inadequate initial tariff level           M              Achievement of revenue adequacy
is one of the eligibility criteria.
Lack of timely availability of counterpart funds  M      Subloans will be made to financially
viable private operators. (eligibility
____ _  criteria
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 25
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The failure of past privatization efforts to address the needs of the poor and the failure of the Tucuman
concession have eroded credibility and may have affected public support and investment interest. This
program, if well executed, should help overcome these past controversies.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Project's Operational Manual is issued by ENOHSA and is in effect.
*  PMU established and fully operational with a coordinator with at least one professional for each of
the functional teams.
* PSP contracts for two utilities awarded and sub-loan signed.
* Regulatory frameworks approved by provincial or municipal congress for two jurisdictions in
addition to those covered by the above.
* All legal requirements of GoA complied.
2. Other:
* Bank approval for major changes in Project Operational Manual.
* Monitoring and evaluation reports to be furnished to the Bank twice a year.
* Monitor indicators to be agreed upon at Negotiations.
* Upgrade and maintaining financial management system.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] 1. b) Not applicable.
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Team Leader: Abel Mejia, Yoko Katakura
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Da
[signature]
Country Managei7D     i Myrna Alexander



Page 26
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Hierarchy of Objectives        K    Prrmne                   otoring and           Critical Assumptions
Ondicaorsan                Evlainon________
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector / Country Reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Consolidate and deepen      * Taxes paid by utilities  National Water and         *  Macroeconomic
structural reforms (Provincial   (US$/year)            Sanitation Information        stability.
reform and development)     * Revenues generated       System (SPIDES)
(US$/year)
* Investment level
(US$/year)
Program Purpose:            Program Phasing:           Program Reports:           (from Purpose to Goal)
(medium size cities)
To support the water sector                            Implementation Completion  *  Sustained commitment
reform in medium-size cities   * # of utilities with PSP  Reports of each phase of the  from provincial/local
with population of about    * # of provinces and       Program.                       governments to reform
50,000 to 500,000, while     municipalities with sector                               agenda.
resolving the emerging issues   regulatory frameworks  Semi-annual project
of the earlier reform process  approved                progress reports from each
in larger cities.           * % of loan committed for    phase of the Program.
each phase
Project Development         Outcome / Impact           Project Reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                  Indicators:
(in participating utilities)  National Water Sanitation    Credibility of legal system
To support the reform process                          and Information System     and judiciary apparatus
in about 5 medium-size      * Weighted average labor    (SPIDES)
municipal and provincial     productivity (water                                  Continued interest from
utilities, while addressing the    connection/employee)                           local and international
pending issues of existing  * Weighted average                                    investors in the W&S sector
private utilities, regulatory  collection ratio (%)                               in Argentina
frameworks, and regulatory
agencies.                   * Customer satisfaction    Ex-post beneficiary survey
with service quality
improvements brought
about by reform.
Output from each component:  Output Indicators:        Project Reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
( in project areas)
Efficiently run utilities under   * # of utilities with PSP  Bi-annual project Progress    Support to privatization
private management          * # of regulatory                                     from population, politicians,
frameworks approved                                 unions, etc.
* Revenue (US$/year)
* Water meters installed (#)                          Change in the culture of
* Investments (US$/year)                              non-payment of water.



Page 27
Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance                niOting and         Critical Assumnpions-|
Indicators                 vitton
Private utilities with clear  * Poverty strategies in  *  Regulatory frameworks
strategy to expand services to   regulatory framework and  and PSP contracts,
the poor                     PSP contracts.               reviewed by PMU.
Cost-effective regulatory
agencies
Reliable financial and      * Timeliness and quality of
operational information of   financial and operational
utilities                    reports (# utilities)
* Data contribution to the
sector information system
( A of utilities)
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each  Project Reports:           (from Components to
components:                 component)                                           Outputs)
1. Investment Component
A. PSP arrangements         IA. US$30.0 million       Biannual project Progress    Minimum management
procured with Bank                                 Reports                   changes in sector agencies.
guidelines
B. Other utilities and      IB. US$6.7 million
cooperatives
C. Service improvement in   IC. US$3.8 million                                   Minimum delays and
Villa Miseria (poor     * New water connections in                           corruption in the
neighborhoods).           Villa Miseria (#)                                   procurement of PSP
contracts.
2. Institutional Component
A. Project management       2A. US$1.5 million                                   Sufficient interest from
B. Training of regulatory   2B. US$0.5 million                                   private investors in project
agencies                * # of participants/hours of                          supported utility
utility regulation training                         privatizations. Adequate
initial tariff level.
C. TA to PSP contracts and   2C. US$3.1 million
regulatory frameworks                                                         Timely availability of
D. Sector information system  2D. US$0.1 million                                 financial resources by the
utilities
3. Environmental Component
3A. US$0.5 million
A. Environmental regulation
B. Environmental services    3B. US$0.5 million



Page 28
Annex I A: Key Performance Indicators - Utility Based (Concessions)
Argentina: Water Sector Reform APL Program
Indicators                    --Ba                     elin Mininmum Targeted Value~' Expected for Each
Value                   Phase I Project Participants
End of    End of               End of           Full
Year 2 /2       Year 4          Year 5          Impact
Operational~ UFW %<55                                           <50            <45             <35             <30
-Metering%                              > 5      - >10               >15             >30             >50
-Water coverage %>81                                 >83       -    >85             >88             >90
Sewer age coverage /%            >61   -       >68   --->7             _.     >76>8
Connection/ .~1ye                 167           200            333        - 500                50
Collection ratio % ~ -           >35          ->45             >50            >80             >90      -
Financial         Debt/Equity  2i0          -      NA         -                   .221                           1.2
Liquidity Ratio-   N/A                           10 .1                           0             1.0 _
Debt Service                     N/A            1.0             10121.2
-     -    ~~~~Coverae
I!  For each participating utility that enters in APL I, with reform agreement signed with Secretary of Natural Resources and
Sustainable Development.
2!  Counting from the time private concession started. The results of year 4 and 5 will be measured during APL 2.
implementation. Specific targets for each utility will be specified in PSP contracts and loan agreements with ENOH-SA
3/  (volume of water produced - volume of water billed) / volume of water produced
4/  number of water connection with meters / total number of water connections
5/  number of population ser-ved with piped water / total number of population in the concession/service area
6/  number of population served with sewerage service / total number of population in the concession/service area
7/  number of water connections / number of utility employee
8/  to-tal amount (pesos) of water and sewerage bills collected in a year / total amount (pesos) of water and sewerage bills sent in
a year
9/  long-term debt!/ shareholders' equity
I0/ current assets!/ current liabilities
Il/ internal cash generation / debt service on the long-term debts (internal cash generation =net income + depreciation +
interest expenses - increase in working capital)



Page 29
Annex I B: Key Performance Indicators - Utility Based (Cooperatives)
Argentina: Water Sector Reform APL Program
. Indicators    .                               ii Baseline       MinimumTargeted Value"l Expected for Each
E  Value   i                 Phase I Project Participants
i-   .  i   End of  End of    i  Endof            Full
Year27 n    Year4                Year 5    Impact
Ojperational UFW                                     <4           0<40               30                0            <30
-i Metering%4 .'   > 15                                              >25             >35       i    >50        i     >50
Water coverage  %                 >81 -          >83        -   >85              >88             >90
i------------------~~~~. .....---_- .......  _ -- - _- - . ...  ..     .__!--_ ........  .. ..... _1_._ __ . .  . ..... ...
Seweragecoverage%                  >61            >68            >72              >76   i   >80
.Connection/Employee   i             167           200      E       333            500       -      500
Collection ratio %   ->50   -                    >60             >70             >80              >90
___.........._. .......... .. ... .........  ....._ . . ...  ..........  . _ ... ......... . . ...... . .. .... .. _.......   ... .... .. .._
iFinancia         De  tE itRatio                    N/A             2;2             2.2             1.7              1 .2    :
Liquidity Ratio         _.0 NA                    1 0               0             1
. ...                                     ...   _  _  ~ ~~~~~~~~._ _._ _._ _ ._ _ _ _L_ _.__ _ _.____ _ ; _ _ __ _ ___...............  L..  - .    _...... .   _ .    _..... .  ._._... ..    ___.. .......!
DebtService                       N/A             1.0             1.0             1.2             1.2
Coverage'
. .......... .   ...... ........... . .......... . ......... ..   ...  .    ........  .... .......  ...... ........ ... .  ........ .... ............... .... .. ...... .......   .. ........_   ... ..... .  ........... ....  ................... .. .....
1/  For each participating cooperative that enters in APL 1, with reform agreement signed with Secretary of Natural Resources
and Sustainable Development
2/  Counting from the time cooperative enters project (in most cases, cooperative agreements are adjusted to be consistent with
provincial regulatory framework). The results of year 4 and 5 will be measured during APL 2 implementation. Specific
targets for each utility will be specified in loan agreements with ENOHSA
3/   (volume of water produced - volume of water billed) / volume of water produced
4/  number of water connection with meters / total number of water connections
5/  number of population served with piped water / total number of population in the concession/service area
61   number of population served with sewerage service / total number of population in the concession/service area
7/  number of water connections / number of utility employee
8/  total amount (pesos) of water and sewerage bills collected in a year / total amount (pesos) of water and sewerage bills sent in
a year
9/  long-term debt / shareholders' equity
10/ current assets / current liabilities
11/ internal cash generation / debt service on the long-term debts (internal cash generation = net income + depreciation +
interest expenses - increase in working capital)



Page 30
Annex I C: Key Impact Indicators - Program Based
Argentina: Water Sector Reform APL Program
Indicator                    Unit                Baseline                  Targeted Value Expected at
End of            End of                 Full
Phase I           Phase II              Impact
(2002)            (2004)
Fiscal Impact        Taxes paid - -                                     N/A       -    -47.0 -                  63.0 
(thousands US$/year) 
Efficiency           Water meters installed                              50                150                  290
Impact         ~(thousand)                                                             61
Reform  Impact   Utilities with PSP                                       361
Approved Regulatory             -                   5                 8   -      -1 2
frameworks~5-                         
Revenue generated                                  50                 60                   115
(million US$/yer
Poverty Impact   Connections in Villa                                  5,000             12,500                26,500
Miseria (agg. value)             ~-
Technical            TA for PSP/Regulatory                              300                600                  1565
Assistance           Model (man-month) 
Im p a c t ...............                    ......                         ...   ......  .......2 5 ,5 0 0 .......    .............    .. .....
Regulatory training                              5,000              00                   250
(trainee-hours) 
Service Quality   Client satisfaction                              Ex-post sample client survey by concessionaires
Impact.-                                                                         (-2 years after reform)
I/   Overall project (all participating utilities)
2/   Total income taxes paid by the participating utilities in a year
3!1  Total number of water meters installed by the participating utilities (cumulative from the start of the project)
4/   Total number of utilities with PSP in cities with population larger than 50,000 (cumulative)
5/   Total number of water sector regulatory frameworks approved by the provincial and municipal legislature
(cumulative from the start of the project)
6/   Total amount of revenue earned by the project participants per year.
7/   Total number of new connections in Villa Miseria (poor neighborhoods) extended by the project participants
(cumulative from the start of the project).
8/   Man-month spent for project management per year.
9/   Number of regulatory staff trained x training hours received (cumulative from the start of the project).



Page 31
Annex 1 D: Key Impact Indicators - Sector Based
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Indicator"    i Unit                    Baseline                Targeted Value Expected at
End of      F    End of               Full
Phase I           Phase II           Impact
(2002)      {    (2004)_     __ -
FiscalImpact | Taxes paid                  ISO             250               227                361
i________ i (million US$/year) \ 150
Financial       Revenue generated          1100            1300              1568               2000
IImpet  _          (million US$/year)'3     2               500                               - 
Investment                250             500                550               500
I (million US$1year)   _            I                  !
II Overall sector (based on the National Water and Sanitation Information System)
2/ Total income taxes paid by sector utilities under PSP in a year
3/ Total amount of revenue earned by sector utilities per year.



Page 32
Annex 2: Project Description
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Government priorities
The project is the first phase of a US$117.0 million sector-reform Program that will finance investment
subprojects and technical assistance designed to support the ongoing reform of the water utility sector in
Argentina. The core strategy of the reform is to transfer sector operations to the private sector, to improve
governance and efficiency of cooperatives, and to redefine the functions of the public sector to regulate
water utilities operating as monopoly. To implement the strategy, regulatory frameworks based on
economic efficiency and independent regulatory institutions must be established. The trend in the largest
provinces of Argentina is to establish single-sector regulatory institutions, but in smaller provinces multi-
sector regulatory agencies responsible for several public services are the preferred option.
Sector strategy and project demand
The existing concessions in Metropolitan Buenos Aires, and in the provinces of Santa Fe, Cordoba,
Formosa, Corrientes, Mendoza, Salta, Campana and Santiago del Estero are still in their infancy and are
under considerable stress. All of them have important unresolved issues with their regulatory agencies.
The smaller and poorer provinces, such as Corrientes, Santiago del Estero and Formosa, have had
difficulties in obtaining financing for investments. All have a poor record in addressing the expansion of
services to the poor. Worldwide experience shows that water concessions are not very successful in
addressing expansion of services to the poor. The government strategy towards the existing concessions
is to: improve the capacity of regulatory institutions by an intense training program and direct technical
assistance; provide limited guarantees to mobilize financial resources for selected investments; develop
credible models to expand services to the poor; and, maintain at the federal level a resource backstop--and
troubleshooting--capacity to assist concessions in crisis.
The Government's PSP strategy for urban centers with a population above 50,000 is long-term
concessions. All major urban centers, except San Miguel de Tucuman, with population greater than
500,000, have their water utility operated by a private concessionaire. Additionally, there are about 40
utilities, providing service to cities with population ranging from 50,000 to 500,000, which are potential
candidates for PSP arrangements. About 23 utilities were included in the PSP and regulatory frameworkl
studies conducted during project preparation. The government strategy for advancing PSP in water
utilities of medium size cities is to: (i) provide technical assistance to prepare PSP studies and regulatory
frameworks, including assistance to obtain legislative approval; (ii) strengthen provincial regulatory
agencies by providing training and specific technical assistance through a resource group at the federal
level; (iii) finance up to 60 percent of the first 5-year investment plans, subject to strict eligibility criteria;
and (iv) facilitate mobilization of private sector financing, by leveraging the presence of multilateral
agencies and by improving the quality and disclosure of information on the operational and financial
performance of water utilities.
Water and sanitation services in the cities with population of less than 50,000 would be managed by
cooperatives, private operators, and a few will remain under public management. The decision of the
government is to avoid conventional institutional strengthening--and investments--in dilapidated utilities
still under public management. Therefore, other PSP models would be promoted including, inter alia,
management contracts, lease arrangements, and BOOT. The government strategy is to select two to three
provinces where all major cities have been concessioned and organize a PSP arrangement for the rest of
water and sanitation services in the province. During project preparation a data base covering operating
conditions and investment needs in the water and sanitation sector in all provinces was developed. The
data base would be updated periodically to assess condition of the sector. The data base, the National
Water and Sanitation Information System (SPIDES) is available at http://www.enohsa.gov.ar/SPIDES.



Page 33
Public Service Cooperatives represent an important segment of the industry in several provinces,
particularly in La Pampa, Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, Cordoba, Misiones and Chubut. Frequently,
cooperatives are the de-facto city managers in charge of power distribution, water and sanitation, funeral
services, and even public libraries. While a few cooperatives have professional and independent
management with financial autonomy, most are still heavily dependent on government transfers to finance
investments, and to cover operational deficits. Their governance structure is heavily influenced by local
politics, with frequent changes in top management, and limited commercial orientation. The government
strategy towards cooperatives is to establish provincial regulatory frameworks to separate sector operation
from regulation, define clear corporate rules to increase autonomy and accountability of management,
establish tariff regimes to promote financial self sufficiency, and improve sector efficiency by
encouraging competition.
The Water Sector Reform Program
The program is a US$117 million program to be implemented in four phases over a 5-year period. The
program will geographically expand the sector reform over time, by providing technical and financial
assistance (private sector participation and establishment of regulatory framework) in medium-size cities.
By the end of the program, majority of large and medium-size city water utilities (at least 22 utilities) will
have completed PSP transactions, and 25 provinces and/or municipalities will have approved the sector
regulatory frameworks out of the universe of 58 larger municipal and provincial utilities.
Program Financing Data
APL          Indicative Financing Plan    Estimated Implementation Petiod (Bank
X   IBRD       Others   Total      Commitment            Closing
US$m   %   US$m   US $ m              Date               Date
APLI             30.0  64      17.1    47.1        7/31/1999          7/31/2002
APL2             40.0  57    29.9    69.9          1/31/2002           1/31/2004
Total            70.0  60    47.0   117.0 1
The Trigger for the APL2 is summarized as follows and precisely detailed in the minutes of negotiation
for the APL I loan:
Phase                _     _                    Triggers         _      _|
Loan               Number of Provincial   Number of PSP
commitment         and/or municipal        contracts
regulatory
frameworks
APL2                 70% of APLI is     5 enacted**              3 signed **
committed *
* sub-loan contracts signed with utility operators
**cumulative from the start of the program



Page 34
The Water Sector Reform Project
Project Components
The project, the first phase of the Water Sector Reform Program, consist of three components:
investment, institutional, and environmental. Project implementation is expected to take about two years.
The closing date is expected to be July 31, 2002 and the completion date January 31, 2002.
Investment Component (US$40.6 million)
Investments to be financed under the project are those which restore the operational capacity of existing
systems, and generate the highest impact on revenue. Investments eligible for financing under this
component include: rehabilitation and replacement of pipes, revamping and improvement of water
treatment plants and intake facilities, upgrading substandard connections, supply and installation of water
meters, repair and replacement of pumping and control equipment, supply of emergency and maintenance
equipment, improvement and extension of water and sewerage services to the poor. The component has
three parts, as follows:
Part A: Utilities with PSP-arran_ements procured through the Bank guidelines. (US$30.0 million)
The project would support investments in utilities with: (i) a PSP contract procured under bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank; and, (ii) a regulatory framework acceptable to the Secretary of Natural
Resources and Sustainable Development and consistent with guidelines discussed with the Bank.
Operators selected under acceptable procedures would be free to procure works and goods under their
own terms. The Bank would finance up to 60% of eligible investments of the first five years the
investment plan. Guidelines for subproject evaluation and eligibility criteria are in the Project Operational
Manual.
Part B. Other utilities and Cooperatives. (US$6.7 million)
The project would also support investments in other utilities and cooperatives. It includes PSP-contracts
procured prior to the project and/or under procedures that were not cleared by the Bank and cooperatives
(such as Olavarria). Investments of works and goods under this part should be procured following Bank
Guidelines. Utilities and cooperatives would be eligible for financing of selected investment subprojects
subject to: (a) attainment of minimum operational indicators; (b) agreement on a multiyear investment
plan; (c) provision of adequate guarantees; (c) acceptance of financial covenants established in the Project
Operational Manual; and, (e) adoption of the provincial regulatory framework, acceptable to the Secretary
of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development. Guidelines for subproject evaluation and eligibility
criteria are in the Project Operational Manual.
Part C. Service improvement in Villa Miseria. (US$3.8 million)
The project would support investments in utilities with long-term concessions which are willing to
implement innovative approaches to improve/expand services to the urban poor. The concessionaires of
Cordoba, Rosario, and Formosa have agreed to participate in the first phase. Detailed design of the
component is available in project files. The implementation procedures are in the Project Operational
Manual.
Institutional Component (US$S5.2 million)
This component will finance the costs of the management of the project, training of regulators, technical
assistance to continue advancing the reform of the sector, establishment of a sectoral information system,
and development and implementation of environmental regulations. The component has five parts, as
follows:



Page 35
Part A. Proiect Management. (US$1.5 million)
A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established at ENOHSA and it will be responsible for the
supervision of subprojects. The Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development would
provide the overall guidance to the project. ENOHSA would also be responsible for financial
management of the project, including sub-loan administration, disbursement, and reporting and audits.
The PMU would be led by a Coordinator financed under the project. The General Manager would be
assisted by three functional teams, comprising 7 professionals, all financed under the project. The
functional teams are: a privatization/regulation team, a project administration team, and poverty team. To
avoid creating a large PMU, a team of external consultants would be recruited to work under the
supervision of the PMU to assist in monitoring the performance of utilities and supervising execution of
investment subprojects. The PMU would be responsible for the day-to-day management of project
implementation. A detailed description of PMU is on the Project Operational Manual. Procurement
training for ENOHSA and sub-borrowers under Part B and C of the investment component will also be
financed under this component.
Part B. Regulatory and Sector training. (US$0.5 million)
The project would support training at two different levels. The first would be to assist utilities in
improving professional proficiency and certifying of key operational functions. The second would be to
assist regulatory agencies (including local government environmental agencies, as necessary) in building
human capacity to regulate utilities. A detailed description of the training program is in the Project
Operational Manual.
Part C. Technical assistance to support sector reform. (US$3.1 million)
The project would support financing of about 1,400 man-months of technical assistance to: (i) assist
provincial/municipal governments in preparing privatization and regulatory framework documents; (ii)
assist provincial/municipal governments in carrying out PSP transactions; (iii) maintain a backstop
capacity at the Federal level to assist sector entities during the transition from public to private
management, including crisis assistance to utilities and governments; and, (iv) assist concessionaires to
effectively implementing low cost--community oriented--subprojects in Villas Miseria.
Part D. Sectoral Information System (SIS). (US$0.1 million)
The project would support further development and update of a sector information system. It would also
develop a utility information system containing operational and financial performance indicators. It will
be used to facilitate mobilization of private sector funds and to establish comparators among utilities for a
"yardstick" competition system. The project will finance the detailed design of the SIS, once the
evaluation of current sector information system (Sistema SPIDES) is completed. This component is
expected to benefit from a similar initiative proposed for Brazil's utility sector, and from the bench-
marking study commissioned by the Bank with the Water Research Council.
Environmental Component (US$1. 0 million)
Part A. Environmental regulation. (US$0.5 million)
The project will finance updating of key environmental standards including for sewage and sludge
disposal, preparation of guidelines for environmental impact assessment (construction of water and
sanitation projects, environmental monitoring and contingency plans), environmental auditing of selected
subprojects, and a prototype water quality management diagnostic study for the Salidulce river basin.
Detailed design of the component is in project files and implementation arrangements are in the Project
Operational Manual.
Part B. Environmental Services. (US$0.5 million)
The project will finance emergency actions to mitigate negative environmental impacts related to water
infrastructure. It includes, inter-alia: environmental clean-up services, removal of hazardous wastes, and,
equipment to address environmental damage.



Page 36
Main Eligibility Criteriafor Participating Utilities(Investment Component)
All participating utilities must satisfy the institutional and financial eligibility criteria as summarized
below.
Institutional Criteria for Participation
For Component A
a) Sector Regulatory Framework is in effect
b) Awarded a concession contract to a private operator according to the procedures acceptable to the
Bank and used the standard bidding document (a part of operational manual; available in project
files).
c) Signed a concession contract which is consistent with standard concession contract (idem).
d) Apply tariff regime based on metered consumption with two-part tariff with price based on marginal
cost.
For Component B and C
a) Sector Regulatory Framework is in effect
b) Signed a concession contract which is consistent with standard concession contract (idem).
c) Apply tariff regime based on metered consumption with two-part tariff with price based on marginal
cost.
Financial and Operational Criteria for Participation (For Components A, B, and C)
a) debt-equity ratio, gradually reduced to 1.7 by year five and 1.2 by year ten;
b) liquidity ratio of more than one;
c) debt service coverage of more than one, increased to 1.2 times by year five;
d) physical (water) losses of less than 50%;
e) employee per 1000 connection of less than six; and
f) bill collection rates of more than 35%;
g) a minimum financial rate of return of 12% is required for any investment programs to be eligible for
the sub-loan.
h) Financial projections demonstrating feasibility of compliance with (c ) and (a) above.
A more detailed description of the eligibility criteria and review procedures are presented in POM.



Page 37
Annex 2 A: Summary of Guidelines for Regulatory Models and Concession Contracts
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
The net benefit from private sector participation (PSP) in Argentina's water sector has been generally
positive with notable increase in quality of service and investment levels. Nonetheless, as discussed in
Block 6 of the main text, numerous lessons were learned from the past PSP experiences. The
sustainability of these concessions is under significant stress, unless actions are taken to correct the
problems. A major re-negotiation of contract was needed for the Buenos Aires concession, and the
concession contract in the province of Tucuman was finally rescinded after several efforts to renegotiate
the contract had failed. Other concessions are also facing varying degrees of problems. Through an
ongoing loan and as a part of the preparation of the new Project, the Bank has been supporting the
Government's effort to bring these troubled concessions back on track.
For the new group of PSP contracts to be supported by the Project, the lessons learned from the past PSP
experiences in the water and sanitation sector will be fully taken into account. The main problems can be
grouped into several issues:
(i)    lack of transparency in PSP/competition process;
(ii)   lack of clarity in regulatory framework and PSP contracts;
(iii)   weak and expensive regulatory institutions;
(iv)   inefficient tariff regime;
(v)    lack of clear strategy and feasible models to expand services to urban poor within the
context of PSP; and
(vi)   unclear environmental responsibilities.
For each one of these issues, a set of guidelines and a corresponding checklist were prepared during
project preparation. Furthermore, a set of standard documents (of regulatory framework, tariff regime,
bidding document, draft concession contract, etc.) was also prepared to simplify the process. These
guidelines, checklists, and standard documents were made available to participating local governments,
and to consultants hired by them. Box I below describes how the guidelines and the checklists are used
vis-a-vis project processing and PSP process. A complete set of guidelines, checklists, and standard
documents is available in the project files.
Summary of Guidelines
(i)    PSP/competition Process
V Two stage bidding process is preferable. Pre-qualification, then technical and financial envelopes
presented at the same time.
/ Pre-qualification criteria (technical and financial) should be clear and objective.
/ Technical evaluation criteria should be "pass or fail"
Bids should be awarded based on economic criteria (canon or tariff discount).
Potential bidders should be given opportunities to comment on the bid document.
/ Secondary network and connection cost (infrastructure charge) should be recovered from a fee
charged to all customers, instead a one time charge to the new and mainly poor customers
(ii)    Regulatory Framework and PSP Contract
/  Decision-making authorities must be clear - what decisions are taken by executive branch? By
legislature?
/ Service targets must be based on output, not input (e.g., quality of wastewater after treatment, instead
of technical specifications of a wastewater treatment plant).



Page 38
V Conflict resolution mechanisms and contract termination procedures must be clearly defined.
V Penalty mechanism must be clearly specified (when, how to calculate, etc.)
V Treatment of existing utility employees (how many transferred, how compensated) must be clearly
defined.
Information requirements (e.g. reports submitted to the regulatory by the concessionaire) must be
clearly defined.
Concessionaire must conduct periodic client survey to measure the service quality improvements.
(iii)   Regulatory Agency
V Qualified directors should be appointed for a term that does not coincide with local government's
mandate to ensure political independence.
V Overstaffing should be avoided by limiting the size and income.
/ Qualified staff should be hired and properly trained.
Financial independence should be maintained through collection of regulatory fees from utilities, but
without overcharging the utilities.
/ Multi-sector regulatory agencies are preferable in a small province to have economy of scale.
(iv)   Tariff regime
Two-part tariff is desirable. If two-part tariff, what is covered by fixed part, and what is covered by
variable part must be clearly specified.
V Tariff structures should promote metering and efficient use of water.
v Who and how structures, levels, adjustments of tariffs are approved must be clearly specified.
V Reasons for extraordinary reviews must be clearly defined.
V Objective and frequency of regular reviews must be clearly defined.
V Tariff adjustment formula should be simple and objective.
(v)    Poverty
V The poor families within PSP area must be identified (including their income level and estimated
willingness to pay) by the Government as a part of preparatory activities of PSP process
These families should be charged a fixed tariff of no more than three percent of monthly income for
water and five percent for water and sewerage combined. This fixed tariff allows for approximatelv
10/15 M3 of water per month, controlled by a volumetric device when economically viable to the
operator
As a part of the concessioning process, the government in charge of the process must launch a public
campaign, including for the poor residents to raise awareness about the purpose and expected impact
of privatization.
Service targets and service extension plans for the poor must be clearly defined.
Subsidy and social tariff mechanism should be designed, when deemed necessary.
Targeting mechanisms (how to identify the poor) for the subsidy and social tariff must be made clear.
V Secondary network and connection cost (infrastructure charges) should be recovered from a fee
charge to all customers, instead a one time charge to the new and mainly poor customers.
v Connection fees should be about US$100 (about US$50 for each service) which is financed by the
utility in one year at no interest
(vi)   Environment
V  Environmental regulation regarding domestic and industrial wastewater must be clearly identified.
v Penalty mechanism should be clearly specified.
V Right and cost of bulk water, if any, should be specified.
V Shared water sources must be identified to avoid future problems.
V Responsibility to protect water sources must be specified, if any.



Page 39
Box 1.
How Guidelines and Checklists are used in Project/PSP Process
Proiect Process                PSP Process             Use of Guidelines/Checklist
Municipality/province
requests TA support for PSP
in water and sanitation sector
* Municipality/province signs
TA agreement with the
National Goyernment
*  Municipality/ province      *  Elaboration of technical    *  PMU provides guidelines and
receives grants to hire        studies.                    standard documents to
consultants to conduct     *  Elaboration of regulatory    municipalities/provinces and
technical studies, elaborate a  framework, tariff regime,  consultants.
regulatory framework,          bidding document, and
prepare PSP bidding            draft concession/PSP
documents and draft            contract.
contracts. Standard terms of
reference are used to hire the
consultants.
*  Municipalities/provinces                *                   PMU review the PSP documents
present regulatory model,                                  against the checklist, conduct
bidding document, and draft                                technical, economic and financial
concession contract to PMU.                                evaluation, and recommends
changes as necessary.
*  Regulatory framework
finalized and submitted
for local government
approval.
*  PSP bid is announced.
*  The Bank allocates funds to    *  PSP bid is awarded.
those bids awarded according
to the Bank guidelines.
*  Private concessionaire
requests financing by the
project.  4
*  The project finances eligible
subprojects/utilities.



Page 40
Annex 2 B: Potential Beneficiaries of the Program
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Utility                   Province        Modality    Population Coverage (%)                                   Bank has supported       Bank will support              IDB Support
(000)                  g
0E
55                                                      -~~~~~~~~~~0                            0
U l                E      En      >.   'E s              0 E
00     '1       -             5               55
~3 1       0                      0 
| u   | u     l   l         | S       | ,, o     ,    | U      | &|   E   | U         |  >|>    
Utilities with PSP
Aguas Argentinas S.A.                  Buenos Aires       concession      9091        85       53    Yes     A      3.4.5.9              X
Aguas de Santiago S.A.                 Sgo. Del Estero    concession      325        94      29    Yes               3.5                          X       X            X        X
Sociedad Prestadora Aguas de Salta S.A.  Salta            concession      688        84      55    Yes   _____ __                                                                        X        X
Agualar S.A.                           La Rioja           concession       139        94     36    Yes       B      2.4.8       X                 X       X             X       X
Aguas de Campana SAA      _            Buenos Aires       concession       68         86     53    Yes                3      - X            _  _        - X
Aguas Provinciales de Santa Fe S.A.    Santa Fe           concession      1795        84     41    Yes       A       4.5        X                 X             X              _
Aguas Cordobesas S.A.                  Cordoba            concession      1158        97     22    Yes               3.5                          X         _                                     X
Obras Sanitarias de Mendoza S.A.       Mendoza            concession      927         92     49    Yes                                                                                   X        X
Aguas de Corrientes S. A.              Corrientes         concession      484         94     44    Yes                                   X                                               X        X
Sudamericana de Aguas - Pilar          Buenos Aires       concession       121        14      8   Yes
Aguas de Formosa S.A.                  Formosa            concession       185        77 .  41    Yes                5.9                          X       X     X      X        X
Obras Sanitarias Tucuman               Tucuman             Enohsa         832         91     45    Yes       C      1.2.3.9    _         X          _.XX               X                     _
Agua de los Andes S.A.                 Jujuy              concession      399         83     42    Yes                                                                                   X
Total Private                                                            16212                                                 3         3       5       5     2      4        3        4        4
Provincial Utilities
SPSE                                   Santa Cruz       Provincial Co.     148       96      50    No
Obras Sanitarias de CATAMARCA          Catamarca          Provincial       176        92     32    Yes       B      2.8.9       X                         X            X        X
EPAS                                   Neuquen            Provincial       192        95     31    Yes       C       1.2.9      X                         X            X
A.R.S.E.                               Rio Negro        Provincial Co.    354        92      44    No
APOS                                   Misiones           Provincial       282       49       18   Yes       B       2.8.9                                X            X
Obras Sanitarias Sociedad Del Estado   San Juan        _Provincial         4   _      96     15    No        C        1.2                                     _                          X        X
SAMEEP                                 Chaco              Provincial      494         86     22    No                 1.2       X                         X            X
AGOSBA                                 Buenos Aires       Provincial      3286        45     29    Yes       B       2.8
Total Provincial                                                         5347                                                  3                         4             4                 1



. Page 41
Utility                  Province       Modality    Population  Coverage                              Bank has             Bank will                         IDB Support
(000)      (%)                        CZ       supported             support
0U,  O
4) z
_O _         s.. 
~~~  0~~~~7               0
Municipal Utlities
Muni. de Pergamino                     Buenos Aires     Municipal       79       66    57   Yes
OSSE                                   Buenos Aires   S.E.-Municipal    513      67   65   Yes                                                                                      __.-
Muni. de Mor6n                         Buenos Aires     Municipal       644      27   22   Yes
Muni. de Berazategui                   Buenos Aires     Municipal      244       88   32   Yes
Direcci6n Municipal de Agua Potable    Entre Rios       Municipal      212       94    37   No         C       1.2     X                    X            X
Parana                                  __        _ _.__
EMOS                                   Cordoba          Municipal       139      92    50   No                                                    _                                   X
Muni. de San Nicolas de los Arroyos    Buenos Aires     Municipal       119      85   55   Yes                                                                                        x
Muni. de San Luis                      San Luis         Municipal       110      99    60   No         C       1.2     X                    X   .__    X
Muni. de Tandil                        Buenos Aires     Municipal       91       85    70   Yes        _
Muni. de Zarate (Direcci6n de Obras    Buenos Aires     Municipal       87       88    58   Yes                                                                                       x
Sanitarias )
Obras Sanitarias Mercedes              San Luis         Municipal       77       96    65   No         C       1.2     X                    x    _       x
Muni. de SANTA ROSA                    La Pampa         Municipal       75       79    69   No
Direcci6n de obras Sanitarias Municipales - Buenos Aires  Municipal     75       97    70   Yes
Junin
Muni. de Necochea                      Buenos Aires     Municipal       73       90    70   Yes
Muni. de Maipu                         Mendoza          Municipal       72       96    60   Yes                12      X                    X
Muni. de LujAn                         Buenos Aires     Municipal       70       31    27   Yes
Muni. de Gualeguaychu                  Entre Rios       Municipal       65       80   58   No           _       I_3.10 
Muni. de Rio Gallegos                  Santa Cruz       Municipal       65       96   71    No                                                  _
Muni. de VENADO TUERTO                 Santa Fe         Municipal       59        0   44   Yes         A        6      X                    X
Muni. de CONCEPCION DEL                Entre Rios       Municipal       56       84   65   No                  1.2     X
URUGUAY                                     ____
Admin.Municipal de Obras Sanitarias    Cordoba          Municipal       56       95    55   Yes
(AMOS )-San Francisco
Muni. de Lujan de Cuyo                 Mendoza __       Municipal       54       94    70   Yes                1.2     X         X
Muni. de Mercedes                      Buenos Aires     Municipal       48       95    82   Yes                                     ..
Muni. de Tres Arroyos                  Buenos Aires     Municipal       45       95    60   Yes
Muni. de CUTRAL CO-PLAZA               Neuquen          Municipal       45       98   43   Yes
HUINCUL                                __       _      _      _     __
Muni, de Villa Carlos Paz              Cordoba          Municipal       42       96      1   Yes                                          __                               __         X
Muni. de VILLA CONSTITUCION            Santa Fe         Municipal       41       95    90   Yes        C       1L2                                                                    X
Total Municipal                                                       3255                                            7                    5            3                            5



Page 42
Utility                    Province       Modality   Population  Coverage                                 Bank has             Bank will                         IDB
(000)       (%)      E  iE                       supported             support                         Support
0 0 ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~      
X~~ ~~~~~~ U  -U   X
E~~~~~~~~~
0     ZC      o      0       ~      O
40 0      -       r-     0 
Cooperatives
Sociedad Cooperativa Popular Ltda       Chubut           Cooperatives     124       96    70   Yes    _            6       X                    X
Comodoro Rivadavia
Coop.Ltda. de consumo de electricidad de  Buenos Aires    Cooperatives    81        66    45   Yes                 3.8                          X
Olavarria
Coop de Agua Potable, Otr Serv Yubl y   Cordoba          Cooperatives     79        69    42   Yes       .               __.
Vvda de Va Nueva Lda                        I_I
Coop. Electrica de Azul Limitada        Buenos Aires    Cooperatives      49        90    50   Yes                                                   .              _         _   X         X
Coop. electrica de consumo y vivienda   Chubut           Cooperatives     78        98    71    Yes        A        6      X                                                       X        X
limitada de Trelew                                    _ _
Coop.de electricidad de San Carlos de   Rio Negro        Cooperatives     78        85    33    No                                                                                 X
Bariloche Limitada
Coop. ltd. de provisi6n de servicios    Chubut           Cooperatives     45        98 |52   Yes   _    _                  X            X
p6blicos de Pto. Madryn                    __._.
Coop. de obras y servicios p6blicos     Cordoba          Cooperatives     43        98    59   Yes                                                                                 X
limitada de rio Tercero
Coop. regional de electricidad de Generai  L a Pampa     Cooperatives     42        84    79    No
Pico limitada                             _son           Coopeati
Coop. Electrica Limitada de OBERA       Misiones         Cooperatives     40        60    40   Yes
Total Cooperatives                                                       658                                              3            2       2                                  4        2
Grand Total                                                             25472                                             16    3       7      16     2      11        4          9        12
References
a/ Coverage figures have inconsistencies as private wells and septic tanks are reported differently by operators
b/ Supported by two previous operations: 2641 AR and 3281 AR
c/ To be supported by the Water Sector Reform APL Program



Page 43
Federal Government Strategy
I/ Support establishment of regulatory framework
2/ Provide TA to reform utility and establish regulatory framework
3/ Support streghtening of regulatory framework
4/ Provide assistance in conflict resolution
5/ Assistance in expanding services to the poor
6/ Improve govemance of cooperatives
7/ Finance Emergency/Rehabilitation Investments
8/ Support reform strategy of provincial/municipal govemment
9/ Support improvement of environmental regulations
10/ AsYesstance to redraft tariff Yesstems
Status of Reform
A/ PSP contract in renegotiation
B/ PSP contract bidding in progress
C/ Regulatory Framework in preparation
D/ Regulatory framework legislature approval in progress
E/ Post-privatization issues being addressed



Page 44
Annex 2C: Project Operational Manual
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Table of Contents
CHAPTER I:    Objectives
Operational Manual
CHAPTER II:    Definitions and Abbreviations
CHAPTER III:   I. Institutional framework of the Project.
2. Structure of the Project Management Unit
3. Functions of the Project Management Unit
CHAPTER IV:   1. Total Project amount
2. External Financing
3. Local Financing
4. Project Execution Period
5. Repayment of the Loan
6. Guarantees Arrangements
7. Conditions of the loans and sub-loans
8. Description of project components
9. Cost of project components and percentage of financing
10. Use of Project Funds
11. Retroactive Financing
12. Project Revisions
13. Expenditure Categories
14. Special Accounts
15. Local and Foreign Expenditures
16. Transfer of funds to borrowers
17. Disbursement currency and exchange rates
18. Request of special commitment
19. Project Administration Expenses
20. Sub-loan disbursement procedures
CHAPTER V:    1. Flow of funds
CHAPTER VI:   1. Project Accounts
2. Flow of Funds Chart
CHAPTER VII:  1. Project Accounting
2. Project Auditing
3. Accounting procedures for the sub-loans
CHAPTER VIII:  1. Condition to participate in the Project
2. General rules for project evaluation
CHAPTER IX:   1. Monitoring Indicators
2. Reporting Requirements
3. Supervision and Inspection of the Projects



Page 45
CHAPTER X:    1. Request for Financing
2. Request for eligibility assessment
3. Determination of eligibility
4. Preparation, presentation and approval of preliminary design of the project and its
socio-economic evaluation
5. Preparation of the final design of the project
6. ENOHSA's approval of the financing request
7. List of documents to be submitted for eligibility assessments
CHAPTER XI:   1. Procedures for procurement of goods, works, and consulting services
2. Contracting process by categories and estimated costs
3. General guidelines for procurement of goods and works
4. Description of different procurement procedures
5. Hiring consulting services
6. Procurement procedures by concessionaires.
CHAPTER XII:  l. General rules for ex-post elvaluation
ANNEXES
1.   Institutional Component
1.1 Part A (Project Management)
Project Management Unit
*  Structure and functions of the Project Management Unit (UEP-ENOHSA)
* Terms of Reference for the Project Management Unit staff
Legal Agreements
* Sample of framework for agreement between national government and provinces.
* Sample of complementary agreement
* Sample of fiduciary/guarantee agreement
List of Projects
* List of projects identified and evaluated within the project
* List of projects identified, but not evaluated
Project Accounts
Terms of Reference for project audits
Sample of technical assistance covenant
1.2 Part B (Training)
* Training for utility staff
* Training for water and sanitation services regulators
1.3 Part C (Technical Assistance)
* Technical Assistance for sanitation for poor urban population
* Technical Assistance at transformation processes and conflict resolution
1.4 Part D Sector information and rating system
2.   Environmental Component



Page 46
2.1  Elaboration of manuals and environmental handbook, training, and Sali Dulce River basin
management pilot
2.2  Environmental impact mitigation actions
3.   Investment Component
3.1   Concession of water and sanitation services
* Model bidding document for service concession
* Concession contracts
* Tariff regime
3.2  Environment procedures manual for subprojects
3.3  Contracting of technical assistance consultants
*  Model letter of invitations
* Model contract
3.4  Preparation of bidding documents for works
3.5  Potential beneficiaries
3.6   Guidelines to prepare sub-loan applications
3.7   Guidelines to prepare disbursement requests



Page 47
Annex 3 A: Estimated Project Costs
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Local        Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component                                US $ million
Investment                                                25.8           13.9           39.7
Institutional                                              4.4            0.8            5.2
Environmental                                              0.8            0.2            1.0
Total Baseline Cost                                       31.1           14.9           45.9
Physical Contingencies                                  0.4            0.2            0.6
Price Contingencies                                     0.2            0.0            0.3
Total Project Costs                  31.7           15.1           46.8
Front-end fee                     0.3            0.3
Total Financing Required             31.7           15.4           47.1
Local        Foreign          Total
Project Cost by Category                                US$  million
PSP Contracts                                             19.5           10.5          30.0
Goods                                                     2.8            1.7            4.4
Works                                                     4.2            2.2            6.4
Services                                                  5.2            0.8            6.0
Total Project Costs                  31.7           15.1           46.8
Front-end fee                     0.3            0.3
Total Financing Required             31.7           15.4           47.1



Page 48
Annex 3 B: Detailed Project Costs
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
!   CornpQrnt  Total         0I         2001        2002
Investment                     39.7        4.0        19.9        15.9
Part A                         30.0        3.0        15.0        12.0
Part B                          5.9        0.6         3.0         2.4
Part C                          3.8        0.4         1.9         1.5
Institutional                   5.2        0.5         2.6        2.1
Part A                          1.5        0.2         0.8         0.6
Part B                          0.5        0.1         0.3         0.2
Part C                          3.1        0.3         1.6         1.2
Part D                          0.1        0.0         0.1         0.0
Environmental                   1.0        0.1         0.5         0.4
Part A                          0.5        0.1         0.3         0.2
Part B                          0.5        0.1         0.3         0.2
Baseline Cost                  45.9        4.6        23.0        18.4
Physical Cont. (1).             0.6        0.1         0.3         0.2
Price Cont.  (2)                0.3        0.0         0.1         0.1
Total Project Cost             46.8        4.7        23.4        18.8
Front-end fee                   0.3        0.3
Total Financing Required       47.1
(1) 10% of works and goods (Investment Component, Part B)
(2) 2% per year of works and goods (Investment Component, Part B)



Page 49
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
A cost benefit analysis was used to determine the economic and financial viability of the Water Sector
Reform (WSR) Program. The analysis presented in this Annex demonstrates that the sector reform
program is highly beneficial to the economy as a whole, as well as to each of the stakeholders.
I. Objective
The main objective of the cost-benefit analysis was to determine the financial and economic viability of:
(i) the investment programs that will be partly financed by the Bank; (ii) the sector reform programs to be
implemented in each participating provinces and municipality; and (iii) the financial and operational
targets proposed in the draft concession contracts.
II. Methodology
To assess the viability of the investment programs to be partly financed by the Bank, we first conducted a
simplified cost-benefit analysis. The investment programs we analyzed are those prepared by
privatization consultants for each of the participating provincial and municipal utilities. They are
conservative estimates constructed based on the operational and service targets proposed in the draft
concession contracts.. Private operators, once winning the concessions, will most probably adjust the
investment programs by for instance adopting different technologies, changing the timing of the
investments as long as they can meet the targets.
We then expanded the cost-benefit analysis to include costs and benefits associated with the reform
program. It would not only include a possible set of rehabilitation and expansion investments to enable
the private operator to achieve the proposed targets, but also the transaction costs of privatization and the
costs of establishing and maintaining a sound regulatory framework.
Once we verified the overall viability of the proposed reform programs, we then conducted a distributive
analysis to assess the impact of reform to each of the stakeholders, which included the Government,
customers, society as a whole, and private operators. Finally, we conducted a risk and sensitivity
analysis to assess the impact of changes in critical assumptions to the economic viability of the reform
program.
To determine the net incremental costs and benefits, we built the "with" and "without" project scenarios,
in which the former assumed that all targets in the concession contracts would be met. The "without"
project scenarios assumed that the performance of the companies under public management would
continue unchanged; coverage levels would be maintained at current levels, and no additional expansion
and rehabilitation investments are foreseen. On the basis of these scenarios, the net incremental financial
benefits and costs of the proposed investment programs were assessed, which were then adjusted for the
impact of taxes, subsidies, and externalities to arrive at the economic flow of costs and benefits. The cash
flows were discounted using a discount rate of 12 percent, which is estimated to be a proxy of Argentina's
opportunity cost of capital.
The main benefits of the reform programs considered include: (i) increase in water and sewerage service
coverage increases; (ii) the reduction or elimination of rationing and intermittent water supplies; (iii)
reduction of water pollution levels; (iv) reduction of financial transfers from local govemments to water
utilities. Economic benefits are assumed equal to the WTP for water supply and sewage disposal



Page 50
services. -Based on the available data, the consumer's willingness to pay for water and sewerage services
is estimated at 5 percent of household income"9. Although the improved hygienic and environmental
conditions that result from increased water supply and sewerage coverage, and the improved quality and
reliability of these services, are clearly benefits, these benefits are not quantified in this analysis. The
benefit of the temporary but significant generation ofjobs during project implementation was also not
considered in this analysis.
The main costs considered include: (i) the incremental operation and maintenance costs and investment
costs required to achieve the proposed targets; (ii) the cost of connection for water and sewerage services
as additional costs to the customers (this is normally borne by customers, and does not appear on utility
balance sheets); (iii) transaction costs related to sector reform; and (v) the costs of regulation.
Sample Selection
Of the 23 subprojects prepared by the project preparation team and consultants, we selected a sample of
nine subprojects and conducted a simplified cost-benefit analysis, and assessed the viability of proposed
operational and financial targets. Of the nine, we selected a sub-sample of three subprojects and
conducted a full-fledged cost-benefit analysis, which included distributive analysis, sensitivity analysis,
and risk analysis, the results of which are presented hereunder. The sample selected includes Posadas in
the province of Misiones (a provincial concession), Parana (the capital city of the Province of Entre Rios,
a municipal concession), and Villa Mercedes (a municipality of the Province of San Luis, a municipal
concession). These concessions are different in size and altogether represent about 43% of the investment
program of the first group of project beneficiaries.
Table 1 Sample Size
Locality                              Size of Company                NPV Total Investment Cost
(number of people served)                  ('P0.Peso)
Parana                                    271,294                              50,240
Posadas                                   207,316                              75,627
Villa Mercedes                            134,157                              11,504
HI. Assumptions
The primary source of data are reports prepared by privatization consultants, under the supervision of
project preparation unit.
Investment costs include the costs of project preparation, environmental compensatory actions, physical
contingencies, and supervision. The connection and secondary network costs are often paid by the
customers, and does not appear on utilities' balance sheets. These costs are thus not included in the
financial costs, but are included in the economic costs.
Operational and maintenance (O&M) costs include the cost of labor, chemicals, power, and
administrative costs. O&M costs for the "without" reform scenario are based on current unit costs. O&M
costs for the "with" reform scenario assumes efficiency gains. Labor costs are calculated as the number
of employees per 1,000 water and sewerage connections (labor productivity) times the number of
9 The actual willingness to pay could deviate substantially from this widely used "rule of thumb". However, in the
absence of willingness to pay studies, no better estimates are available. The sensitivity and risk analysis will be used
to determine the impact of changes in this assumption on the overall results.



Page 51
connections times the average cost per employee. In the "without" reform scenario, labor productivity
remains constant and the number of connections increases so as to keep the coverage level constant. In
the "with" reform scenario, labor productivity and the number of connection increase in accordance with
each utility's efficiency targets. Chemical and energy costs are calculated based on projected water
production volumes and unit costs. Other costs are calculated as percentage of direct O&M costs.
The implementation period of investment programs ranges from 24 to 30 years, depending on proposed
concession terms. The rest (terminal) value of investments has been assumed to be zero.
Current and projected population in the project areas is based on the 1991 Census, periodic updates made
by the National Institute for Statistics (INDEC), and the number of households per connection. The
annual targets for the installation of new service connections are based on the projected coverage levels as
specified in the draft concession contracts.
Per capita water consumption is calculated as the weighted average of the current per capita consumption
of metered and non-metered households. Per capita water consumption of non-metered households is
assumed equal to that of metered customers, after adjustments for the impact of price elasticity, which is
assumed -0.30 based on results of earlier studies in Latin America20. Non-residential water consumption
is calculated as a percentage of residential consumption, based on historical records. The discharge factor
to collectors and interceptors is assumed as 0.70 and the infiltration factor 0.20.
Water billed. Non-metered customers are charged a flat fee, and metered customers are charged by
volume consumed.
The metering rate is projected to increase gradually. In Posadas, it is projected to increase from 38
percent in 1996 to 90 percent in 2003 and onwards; in Parana, from 10 percent in 1996 to 80 percent in
2003; and in Villa Mercedes, gradual increase from zero percent today to 95 percent in 2011.
Unaccounted-for water, defined as water not billed over water supplied, is estimated to gradually
decrease. The physical losses are assumed to decline to 15 percent of water production, while
administrative losses will decline to 6 to 9 percent. The division between commercial and physical losses
varies by company, but assumed to be 30 and 70 percent, respectively, of total UFW.
The tariff structures and levels are assumed to remain unchanged for both the "with" and "without"
project scenarios, with the exception of Villa Mercedes where a significant increase in tariffs are expected
prior to privatization. The collection efficiency rate is assumed to remain unchanged in the "without"
project scenario and gradually increase in the "with" project scenario.
Canon is the annual payment by the private concessionaires to the local governments as a royalty for the
use of the assets. The canon payments are either fixed (i.e., a fixed payment over the life of the
concession) or variable (i.e., as a percentage of sales). In the three utilities we analyzed, the canon
payments are set at 2 percent of operating revenue. The actual canon payments will be determined
through the bidding process.
Regulatory fees are to be paid by the privatized companies as a percentage of their revenues to help to
cover the costs of regulation. In the sample of three utilities, the regulatory fees vary from 1.6 to 3.5
percent of revenues depending on the size of the company.
20 Earlier studies in Latin America found price elasticity values of -0.30, which has been used here. However,
because of the lack of insight in the price elasticity in Argentina, in the sensitivity and risk analysis, the impact of
variations in the price elasticity will be tested.



Page 52
Taxes. The value added tax (applicable to materials and equipment, including electricity and chemicals,
and tariffs) is estimated at 21 percent. Income taxes are projected at 30 percent of net income.
IV.    Results of Cost-Benefit Analysis
Financial
The results of the cost-benefit analysis of the financial flows show that sector reform in the three utilities
is a viable and profitable option. The net benefits before financing (i.e., total investment point of view)
for the three utilities is Peso 12 million, while the internal rate of return would be 14 percent.
Table 2     Results of the Financial Analysis (before financing)
Locality                                         Net Present Value (Peso million)
Benefits             Costs           Net Benefits      Internal Rate of
____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____ ___R eturn
Parana                           83                  79                  5                  14%
Posadas                          124                 117                 7                  14%
Villa Mercedes                   22                  22                   1                 13%
Total                            230                218                  12                 14%
Economic
The introduction of externalities and the adjustment for taxes and subsidies to correct the financial flows
of benefits and costs improves the previous financial estimates. The sample of three utilities would
generate net benefits of Peso 53 million. The internal rate of return of sector reform will be 19 percent,
while the benefit-cost ratio will be 1.37.
Table 3     Results of the Economic Analysis
Locality                                          Net Present Value (Peso million)
Benefits             Costs           Net Benefits      Internal Rate of
Return
Parana                           85                  55                  29                 20%
Posadas                          90                  73                  16                 17%
Villa Mercedes                   20                  13                  7                  36%
Total                            194                 141                 53                 19%



Page 53
V    Distributive Analysis
The difference between the economic and financial cash flows (defined from the equity point of view), is
analyzed to determine who benefits from and who pays for the project. The big winner is the government,
while also the other stakeholders, such as society and shareholders realize a sizeable share of the benefits
of sector reform (see Table 4). However, consumers stand to lose from PSP due to the increased
efficiency in the operation of the utilities resulting in higher water and sewerage bills. In return, however
they will benefit from improved services, which are not fully quantified in this analysis.
Table 4          Results of the Distributive Analysis
Locality                                 Net Present Value (Peso million)
Government      Consumers          Society      Shareholders    Total impact
Parana                10              - 2              15               5              28
Posadas               28             -29                5              12              16
Villa Mercedes         6              -6               5                1               7
Total                 44             -36              25               19              51
Fiscal Impact
The impact on government finances is positive. The three utilities in the sample have a positive net fiscal
impact equal to Peso 44 million (Table 5). Although the government supplies subsidies in the form of
credit subsidies, and more significantly in capital subsidies for investments (in the case of Parana and
Posadas), the fiscal transfers to the government through the collection of value added tax on the sales of
water and sewerage will more than compensate. The government has to 'invest' in sector reform through
the establishment of a regulatory regime and transaction costs to facilitate the transfer from public to
private management. Yet, the regulatory fees that the privatized water companies have to pay are
assumed to offset these costs. In addition, the government will receive canon payments from the
privatized companies as a royalty or license fee for the use of the assets of the utility. The actual benefits
from these net payments will yield Peso 2 million. The government also benefits as fiscal transfers to
cover operating deficits in Parand and Villa Mercedes will be eliminated.
Table 5    Net Fiscal Impact
Locality                           Net Present Value (Peso million)
Taxes        Subsidies     Net income from      Total fiscal
PSP              impact
Parand                27             -17                1                10
Posadas               32              -6                1                28
Villa Mercedes         7              -1               0                  6
Total                 66             -24               2                 44
Consumers
Consumption externalities benefiting the consumers of water supply and sewage disposal services are
estimated at negative Peso 36 million. The calculation of the consumer losses include the consumer
'surplus', the impact of the value added tax on the water bills, and the costs of the secondary network in
Parana and Posadas that the consumers have to pay.



Page 54
When the management of water utilities is transferred to private operators, consumers will have to the pay
more for the service as the service will be metered (and hence will reflect the actual water consumption
and wastewater production), billing and collection will improve, and illegal consumption will be
curtailed. The consumer surplus for existing customers will be significantly negative. New customers,
mainly poor customers, will benefit from private sector participation in the sector. Table 6 shows a large
customer loss in Posadas, which is due to the relatively high percentage of poor in the total population,
the low average household income in this town and the high water and sewerage rates currently being
applied.
Table 6    Impact on Consumers
Locality                                   Net Present Value (Peso million)  _
Consumer           IVA taxes       Cost of connection    Total consumer
Surplus            on Sales                                 gain
Parana                      1                 -13                 0                   -2
Posadas                   -11                 -16                 -I                 -29
Villa Mercedes             -2                  -4                 0                   -6
Total                      -2                 -32                 -2                 -36
Table 7 shows the impact on existing and new customers. Existing consumers will experience a large
consumer loss, due to increased metering, and improved billing and collection.
Table 7    Impact on Existing and New Customers
Locality                        Net Present Value (Peso million)
Existing customers   New customers             Total
Parana                 -28                  26                   -2
Posadas                -31                  2                    -29
Villa Mercedes         -14                  9                    -6
Total                  -73                  37                   -36
It has also been attempted to distinguish the consumer benefits between poor and non-poor customers. As
the database available was not up to date, these calculations can therefore by character only be very crude.
However, they provide us with some background on the impact of the current tariff and connection cost
structures to the poor. To enable us to make the calculations, three major assumptions were made. First,
the cost of connection are distributed to the poor and non-poor on the basis of the distribution of poor in
the total population2", while it is assumed that the poor will be the last to connect. Second, the IVA taxes
on sales are calculated using the average consumption levels for poor and non-poor customers. This will
result in an overestimation of the cost of IVA taxes, as poor customers are likely to use less water than
non-poor customers. However, as we have no data on the present consumption levels because of data
deficiencies, it is impossible to estimate consumption levels of the poor and non-poor. Third, the
willingness to pay for poor and non-poor customers is calculated on the basis of average household
income, due to lack of more detailed household income data.
The current tariff structures affect the non-poor more than the poor customers. This is mainly due to the
impact of consumer losses of existing, mainly non-poor, customers because of the increased efficiency
21 The regional distribution of poverty in San Luis (Villa Mercedes), Entre Rios (Parana), and Misiones (Posadas)
was taken from "Nota sobre Algunos Aspectos de la Pobreza y del Saneamiento en la Argentina" Ministerio de
Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos. October 1995.



Page 55
associated with private sector participation.
Table 8           Impact on Poor and Non-Poor Customers
Locality                         Net Present Value (Peso million)
Poor customers    Non-poor customers            Total
Parana                   6                    -8                     -2
Posadas                  -1                  -28                    -29
Villa Mercedes           2                    - 8                    -6
Total                    8                    -44                   -36
Society
Society includes the customers of water supply and sewerage services as well as all others inhabitants of
the service areas from the utilities. Society benefits primarily from the project's expected effect on
curtailing environmental pollution. Society benefits are estimated at about Peso 25 million.
Shareholders
The benefits to shareholders, estimated at Peso 19 million, are calculated as the difference between the
equity payments made by the shareholders and the dividend payments they receive in return for their
participation in the capital of the company.
VI   Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
The sensitivity analysis shows that the Water Sector Reform project is rather robust for two of the three
concessions. The variables identified as conveying major risk to the subprojects are: changes in
willingness to pay for water and sewerage services, price elasticity of demand, changes in collection
efficiency, changes in the unaccounted-for water level, investment cost overruns and operating cost
overruns.
Table 9     Risk Variables and their Impact and Risk Significance
Risk Variable              Impact and Risk Significance
Willingness to Pay for Water  Direct impact on economic benefits of the project; this variable could convey
and Sewerage Services      a substantial risk to the project
Price Elasticity of Demand    Direct impact on revenues and profitability. Beyond management control;
this variable could convey a risk to the project.
Collection Efficiency      Direct impact on revenues and profitability. Largely under management
control, this variable conveys a low risk to the project
Unaccounted for Water      Direct impact on operation and maintenance costs, indirect impact on
revenues as a decline in unaccounted for water has an impact similar to a
capacity increase. Largely under management control, conveys a moderate
risk level to the projects.
Investment Cost Overrun    Direct impact on investment costs. Largely under management control,
conveys a moderate risk to the project
Operating Cost Overrun     Direct impact on operating costs. Largely under management control
I_________________________  conveys a moderate risk to the project.
The sensitivity analysis calculates the impact of single variable changes in a static world. Before
adjustments were made, the most critical variable is the willingness to pay for water and sewerage
services, followed by operating and investment cost overruns. Price elasticity, collection inefficiency and



Page 56
unaccounted-for water are less important in affecting the net benefits of sector reform. In view of the
relatively high switch values for the different variables, water sector reform turns out to be robust for
Parana and Villa Mercedes, and less so for Posadas.
Table 10          Results of the Economic Sensitivity Analysis - Switch Values for Net Benefit
Sector Reform
| Locality            -       Willingne ss to Pay*          Investment       Operating
Net benefit sector    Net benefit     Cost Overrun   Cost Overrun
reform         customer gains
(NPV=0)            (NPV=0)
Parand                     2.8%               5.2%             48%             43%
Posadas                    3.8%               7.0%              19%            19%
Villa Mercedes             2.4%               7.0%             57%             45%
*Percentage of household income customers are willing to pay for water and sewerage
services
To enhance the accuracy of the financial and economic analysis by incorporating the uncertainty of the
real world, Crystal Ball software was used. This software allows measuring the extent of various risks
and their effect on the project, modeling a probability distribution for each risk variable and the resulting
outcome. Based on a simulation of 1,000 trials, the model recalculated the results of the financial and
economic analyses by changing the major risk variables all at the same time.
Table 11          Assumptions on Probability Distribution and Standard Deviation
Risk Factors g   t i s        Tri istributio   n. Sam  as ie n cs o
Willingness to Pay           Normal distribution. Mean value: 5% of household income.
Standard deviation: 20%.
Price Elasticity of Demand   Unifol tdistribution. Values raggom fot  s.dIe s    s t ho t.50
Investment cost increase     Triangular distribution. Mean: no cost overrun = 1. Minimum  i
0.80; Maximum = 1.20
Operating cost increase      Triangular distribution. Same as investment cost overrun.
Collection rate improvements    Lognormal distribution. Standard deviation: IO%. Mean is what
consultants forecast.
Unaccounted for Water        Lognormal distribution. Mean is what consultants forecast.
Standard deviation: 10%.
Changes in the willingness to pay have a direct impact on the economic benefits of the project. The
probability of variations in the willingness to pay can be high. Data from other studies suggest that the
w illiDgness to pay for water and sewerage services can be higher than the 5 percent of household income
that has been assumed. For this variable, a normal distribution has been used.
Changes in the price elasticity of demand will have a direct impact on the extent of the consumer losses
that existing customers will suffer due to the more efficient operation under a private operator. When the
demand is more price elastic, price increases will be neutralized by decreases in the demand for services.
Because of lack of insight in the price elasticity of demand, we have assumed a uniform probability
distribution, with values ranging from -0.10 to -0.50. Better insight in this variable is needed to
determine the net benefits of shareholder gains. When the demand is more elastic, tariff revenues will be
less as tariff increases (due to increased metering, and improved billing and collection efficiency) will
have a more negative impact on water and sewerage consumption.



Page 57
Changes in collection efficiency have a direct impact on the benefits of the project. A lognormal
distribution has been used with the inverse or collection inefficiency, with a standard deviation of 10
percent. The lognormal distribution has been assumed as the probability that the collection inefficiency
will be positively skewed.
Changes in the unaccounted-for water (UFW) have an impact on the operation and maintenance costs of
the project. A decline in UFW has a similar impact than an increase in capacity. Assuming a standard
deviation that is 10 percent, a lognormal distribution is used for this variable. This lognormal
distribution reflects that the probability that UFW reduction is positively skewed.
Investments cost and operating cost overruns have a direct impact on the costs of the project. For this
variable, a triangular distribution is used. Assuming that the engineers accurately estimated the
investment and operating costs, the most likely value for overruns is 0 percent. The minimum value is -
20 percent, and the maximum value is 20 percent. These variables can be considered as a proxy for
achieving the operational and financial targets spelled out in the concession contracts. When the private
operator does not achieve the targets, and hence the efficiency gains are less than anticipated, the actual
cost for achieving the targets will result in higher cost.
Economic Risk Assessment
The economic risk assessment shows that sector reform in all three utilities, is virtually risk free for all
three utilities. Posadas generates most risk, with a probability that sector reform will generate positive
benefits of 87 percent.
Willingness to Pay is the most critical risk variable. Changes in willingness to pay, which are only very
partially under management control, will have an important impact on the net benefits generated by sector
reform. Operating and investment cost overruns are also very important variables, changes in
unaccounted for water, variations in the price elasticity of demand and changes in the collection
inefficiency will have less impact on the viability of sector reform.
Table 12          Economic Risk Assessment Net Benefit Sector Reform
Locality                                  Net Benefit Sector Reform
Probability NPV>O              Mean Expected NPV
(Peso million)
ParanA                              99%                              29
Posadas                             87%                               16
Villa Mercedes                      100%                               7
The economic risk assessment also shows that consumers are the groups whose benefits of sector reform
are most at risk. The lack of gains for this group is a direct consequence of sector reformn. As the utilities
will be run more efficiently, customers - i.e., existing customers - will have to pay significantly more for
the services provided due to metering (in all three utilities, unmetered customers pay lower water and
sewerage rates than metered customers) and improvements in collection and billing efficiencies. On the
other hand, they will gain from improved water services, such as reduced rationing, better water quality,
and improved environment, which are not totally captured in the analysis22
22 It is important to note that this analysis was based on a conservative assumption that the customer's willingness to
pay (WTP) for water and sewerage services, on average, is about 5% of household income (2.5% each for water and
sewerage). In a WTP study conducted in Brazil recently for another Bank project (Second Water Sector



Page 58
Overall, customers are almost certain that they will not gain from sector reform, if their willingness to pay
is assumed to be 5 percent of household income. The losses will be very large for the existing customer
base as was shown in Table 7.
The risk for shareholders not to gain from the concession is small. It varies per concession from a
minimum of 88 percent in Parana and Villa Mercedes to a maximum of 100 percent in Posadas. The risk
to shareholders can be mitigated by lower monthly canon payments. The monthly canon payments are
currently set at 2 percent of revenues for each concession.
Table 13          Economic Risk Assessment per Group of Stakeholders
Locality                       Parana                    Posadas                Villa Mercedes
Probability     Mean       Probability    Mean      Probability     Mean
NPV > 0      expected      NPV> O      expected     NPV > 0       expected
value                     value                     value
Government gains         100%           10          100%           28         100%           6
Customer gains           43%            -2            1%         -29           1%           -6
Society gains            100%           15          100%           5          100%           5
Shareholder gains        100%           6           100%           12         99%            1
Modernization Project. Report No. 16771 BR), the WTP ranged from 2.6% to 13.2% for basic access to water and
2.7% to 3.3% for sewage collection, respectively. On average, elimination of rationing, improvements in water
quality, and sewage treatment added one percentage point each to the WTP for basic access to water supply and
sewage collection mentioned above.



Page 59
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
The cost-benefit analysis as presented in Annex 4 determined that a well-structured reform (PSP) program
would benefit the economy as a whole, asrwell as each of the stakeholders involved in reform. It also
showed that a "win-win" situation is not guaranteed, unless reform programs are structured well, with a
clear strategy to address the issue of poor customers.
In the same token, reform programs will not succeed, unless they are structured to attract potential
investors and lenders. Concession structures, as proposed by provinces and municipalities must allow
sufficient rates of returns to potential investors and provide adequate financial comfort to lenders if they
are to be successful.
Like the cost-benefit analysis, we prepared financial analyses and projections for the nine sample utilities.
Then we conducted a more detailed analysis for three selected utilities, representing different phases of
the APL program. When we first analyzed the three selected draft concession contracts at Appraisal, we
found that two of the three contracts were highly risky or financially not viable. The draft contracts
included a rapid increase in service coverage in the first five years of the concession, with little regard to
the financial health of the concession companies or returns to the investors. The results of the analysis
were discussed with the respective provincial and municipal governments. They agreed to more modest
service expansion targets to make the concessions less risky and more viable.
r       In this section, as in Annex 4, we will present the methodology, assumptions and results of the analysis
reflecting the adjustments made in the iterative process of analysis.
I. Objective
The main objectives of the financial assessment are to: (i) assess the financial feasibility of the concession
structures, as being proposed by the provinces and municipalities (with the help of privatization
consultants); (ii) assess the debt service capacity of the potential borrowers and their eligibility for the
loan; and (iii) determine the main risk factors and the sensitivity of these factors to the overall feasibility
of the concession.
II. Methodology
Samples. The same sample that was used for the cost-benefit analysis was used for the financial viability
analysis. The Project Preparation Unit (PPU) prepared financial projections and assessments for a total of
nine provincial and municipal concessions and cooperatives, which represent the first group of program
beneficiaries. Of these, we selected three concessions (Parana, Posadas and Villa Mercedes) and
conducted a more detailed financial assessment, including the sensitivity and risk analyses. The results of
the financial assessments and financial projections of the rest of the six concessions are available in the
project files.
Construction of a Spreadsheet Model. Based on the reports prepared by the privatization consultants, the
PPU, with the help of the Bank, constructed a comprehensive spreadsheet model. The model consisted of
concession targets, demand forecasts, production and treatment capacity, investment programs, operating
costs, which all fed into the cost-benefit analysis, financial projections, and risk and sensitivity analysis. -
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will use this model to assess the financial and economic viability of
all future subprojects.



Page 60
Measuring the Financial Viabilitv of the Concessions. We then analyzed the financial viability of the
concessions determined by the following indicators:
a) net present value of cash flows from operations, to verify if the concession structure as proposed in
the bidding document is financially viable or not (overall value of business).
b) net present value of concession to the shareholders, to verify if the concession structure is attractive
for foreign and domestic investors (value to the investors).
c) debt equity ratio, to verify if the concession structure allows the utilities to stay financially healthy.
d) debt service coverage, to verify if the utilities would have the financial capacity to service the World
Bank and other loans.
e) current ratio, to verify if the utilities remain sufficiently liquid to stay financially healthy.
Unlike the cost-benefit analysis presented in Annex 4, which determined the benefits on an incremental
basis (NPV of benefits with sector reform minus NPV of benefits without reform), the net present values
in the financial analysis were determined on the basis of the "with reform" scenario only.
Sensitivity and Risk Analvsis. Finally, we conducted a sensitivity and risk analysis to determine how
different assumptions and risks affect the viability of the concessions. The risk analysis was carried out
using the Crystal Ball risk analysis program.
III. Assumptions
The main assumptions were based on (i) operational performance, customer base, physical capacity of the
existing public utilities; (ii) the expected efficiency gains from private concessions; (iii) operational and
physical targets as specified in the draft concession targets, and the most likely investment programs to
achieve these targets; and (iv) minimum capital and other financial requirements set forth in the draft
concession contracts. Although much of the assumptions were based on privatization consultants'
reports, some assumptions, especially those related to the investment programs, were adjusted to reflect a
more conservative scenario.
Concession Award Criteria
The concessions to be financed under the program are mostly awarded to the bidders who offered the
highest monthly licensing fee called "canon" or those which offered the largest discount to the existing
average tariff. After years of problems associated with awarding concessions on tariff discounts,
followed by "unexpected tariff adjustments", the Government of Argentina decided to encourage bidding
on "canon" for the second wave of water utility concessions. In all the concessions analyzed here,
therefore, concessions will be selected based on highest canon payments.
Starting Assets and Liabilities
Most of the subprojects analyzed will be concessioned to private operators. Under the concession
scheme, bidders will create a special purpose concession company with a minimum level of capital that is
specified in the draft concession contracts. In the cases we analyzed, we assumed that none of the assets
and liabilities of the public utilities would be transferred to the newly created concession company. The
transfer of assets and liability, if any, would be minimal.
The project will also finance existing cooperatives, provided that these cooperatives will formalize their
contracts with the municipalities and that they formally agree to function within a newly created
regulatory framework. In this case, we prepared the financial statements based on the financial
statements of the existing entities.



Page 61
Basic Assumptions
All assumptions are the same as those used for the "with reform" scenario of the cost-benefit analysis as
summarized in Annex 4. Most assumptions are based on various efficiency and physical targets set forth
in the draft concession contracts. All utilities analyzed exemplify the Argentine public utilities which are
plagued with: (i) low operating efficiency, (ii) low metering; (iii) high consumption; (iv) high level of
unaccounted-for water, in particular due to commercial losses; and (v) low level of collection rates. One
of the key assumptions is that these operational efficiency indicators will improve substantially with
private sector participation. The following assumptions are related to the utilities' financing activities that
are not presented in Annex 4.
Table 1 Financial Assumptions
Factors              Assumptions
Exchange Rate:       Argentine peso is pegged to the US dollar by the "Convertibility Law".
For the base case scenario, we assumed no devaluation of local currency.
Inflation:           We assumed zero local inflation reflecting recent trends. Any specific
increases in input costs will be adjusted through the tariff adjustment
mechanism to be defined in each concession contract.
Discount Rate:       We used 12% real discount rate for the calculation of net present values
under the base scenario.
Accounts             Based on bill collection rates, and expected gradual increase in bill
Receivable:          collection rates.
Accounts Payable:    Two months of operating expenses.
Cash:                One month of operating expenses.
Long-term Debts:     We assumed debt financing when cash from operations does not cover
investment. Debt financing is limited to two times total equity. For the
base case scenario, we assumed a real interest rate of 8.5%, amortization
period of 7 years for the Bank loan and 5 years for the rest.
Short-term Debts:    We assumed that the utilities would take working capital line of credits.
Utilities would take on short-term debts to cover any increases in working
capital requirements. The real interest rate on these debts is 12 percent.
Equity Financing:    The initial capital is as required in the draft concession contracts.
Subsequent equity financing occurs when further debt financing results in
debt-equity ratio of above 2.
Dividend Payout      The minimum dividend is the smaller of 8 percent of net income or 8
Policy:              percent on invested capital. Any cash in excess of minimum cash.
Water and Sewerage Tariff
The tariff levels after the concessions award will, mostly, be equal to the current real tariffs. In general,
the proposed tariff levels are sufficient to cover the long-run average costs (LRAC) to ensure financial
revenue adequacy, given efficient operation. The proposed tariff will also cover about 80% of the
estimated long-run average incremental costs (LRAIC) in the Parana and Posadas concessions, as can be
seen in Table 2. In Villa Mercedes, the LRAIC is significantly higher than the current tariff, mainly
because of (i) its small size -with less scope for economies of scale; (ii) future investment requirements
are higher because least-cost options have already been exhausted.



Page 62
Table 2   Long-Run Average Incremental Cost, Long-Run Average Costs and
Proposed Tariff Levels (Peso per m3)
Indicator               Parana             Posadas            Villa Mercedes
LRAIC                        0.79               1.05                  1.13
LRAC                         0.46               0.74                  0.41
Proposed Water and           0.62               0.90                  0.59
Sewerage Tariff
Tariff as % LRAIC            78%                86%                    52%
Tariff as % LRAC             135%               122%                  144%
Bank Loan Conditionality and Financial Health of Utilities
As discussed in Block 14 of the PAD text, once concession/PSP contracts are awarded, concessionaires
must present and maintain the following indicators to become eligible for the sub-loan: (i) starting debt-
equity ratio of less than 2.2., gradually reducing to 1.7 by year five and 1.2 by year ten; (ii) liquidity ratio
of more than one; (iii) starting debt-service coverage of more than 0.8, increased to 1.2 by year five. In
addition, all sub-borrowers must demonstrate a minimum level of operational efficiency to apply for the
sub-loan: (i) physical water losses of less than 50 percent; (ii) the number of employees per 1,000
connections should not exceed six; and (iii) the collection rate should exceed 35 percent.
IV.   Results
After Appraisal, the results of the economic and financial analysis of the draft concession contracts were
discussed with the respective municipalities or provinces. As a result, various changes were introduced to
the draft concession contracts of Parana and Posadas as summarized in Box 1. The adjustments, such as a
more modest service expansion targets in the initial years, made all three concessions viable, in terms of
rate of returns and financial structures. The summary financial projections of the three concession
companies are presented in Attachment 1.
Box 1. Modifications to the Concession Structures Introduced
as a Result of Economic and Financial Analysis
Concession structure     Problems identified        Adjustments made to draft concession
initially proposed                                  documents
Ambitious service        *  Concessionaires will    *  Expansion targets in the initial
expansion targets in the    suffer liquidity problems   years was reduced.
initial years of concession.  in the early years of
concession.
Concessionaires will not  *  Capital subsidy, especially for
get sufficient rates of    sewage treatment was introduced.
return on investments.
No clear strategy to     *  New and poorer          *  Social tariffs were introduced.
address the issue of the    customers will be the   *  Use of canon payments to provide
poor.                       main losers of the          direct subsidies to the poor.
reform program.        *  Secondary network costs charged
to all customers, through a
surcharge, instead of being
charged to new and mostly poor
customers.



Page 63
Financial Feasibility and Debt Service Capacity of the Concessions Analyzed
All concessions are found to be financially viable, based on the assumptions used in the base-case
financial projections and valuation models, and the adjustments made afterwards. From the Posadas
concession, the investors can expect to earn a 14 percent rate of return on operations and a 19 percent
return on invested capital. As for the Parana concession, the investors earn 13 percent from operations,
and 17 percent on invested capital. The Villa Mercedes concession also proved feasible, with a rate of
return of 14 percent on operations and 18 percent on invested capital.
It is important to note, however, that the financial viability of concessions depends on the rate of returns
the future concessionaires expect to earn from their investments. In all three concessions, the viability of
the concession becomes questionable, when we apply higher discount rates. That means that potential
investors who require rates of return on invested capital of more than 20% -- because of the high risk
perception, transaction costs, etc. -- may not bid, or bid with a very low (or even negative) monthly
canon.
Table 3   Results of the Base Case Scenario
Concessions    NPV Cashflow          NPV         Min. Debt  Maximum    Minimum
(US$ million)    Shareholders     Service       Debt-      Liquidity
Coverage*    Equity*      (current
ratio)*
Parana        @12%       2.1  (@12%       4.4
@15%      -3.4   @15%      1.1        1.1          1.2          1.1
@20%      -7.8   @20%    -1.4    (7th year)    (3rd year)   (2d year)
IRR =     13%   IRR =    17%
Posadas      (@12%       7.5    @12%    10.1
,15%      2.0    @15%      4.0        1.0          1.4          1.0
@,20%    - 9.8   @20%    -0.7    (4h year)    (31d year)   (2nd year)
IRR =     14%   IRR =    19%
Villa         @12%        1.3  @a-)12%    1.9
Mercedes      @15%    -0.5   @15%         0.7        1.0         1.4          1.1
@20%      -2.0   @20%    -0.2    (4 year)    (3 year)   (2 year)
IRR =     14%    IRR =    18%
*First ten years of concession
V.   Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
Sensitivity Analysis
The financial viability of the concessions and expected health of the concession companies largely depend
on various assumptions used in the base case financial projections. To determine the impact of changes in
these assumptions, we conducted a sensitivity and risk analysis on the following critical assumptions:
*  Metered consumption (measured by price elasticity of demand and absolute volume of consumption)
- liter per capita per day (lcd)
*  Exchange rate devaluation
*  Investment cost increase
*  Operating cost increase



Page 64
* Collection rate improvements
* Canon (license fee) payments
According to the sensitivity analysis, the results are rather robust. The Posadas concession is the most
robust of the three concessions analyzed. The Parana concession is the most sensitive to changes in the
price elasticity assumptions (per capita consumption) and to investment and operating cost overruns,
while Villa Mercedes is the most sensitive to changes in any variables. Selected results of the sensitivity
analysis are presented hereunder. More details of this analysis can be found in the Project Files.
Price Elasticity and Consumption. The financial viability of the concessions is largely dependent on
presumed level of consumption, which are directly linked to revenue. All utilities analyzed assume a
relatively high level of starting per capita consumption level ranging from 238 lcd to 360 lcd. With price
elasticity of -0.30, the per capita consumption is expected to decrease to a 217-316 range. Although the
Government's project preparation team and the local consultants argue that there is a culture of high water
usage, and that consumption will fall only gradually after metering is introduced (price elasticity of -0.30
is used), we must be aware that this assumption is critical to the overall feasibility of the concession
programs. As presented in table 4, a decline of about 20-25 percent in the per capita consumption would
seriously jeopardize the viability of the concessions analyzed.
Table 4
Sensitivity Analysis - Price Elasticity and NPV to Shareholders
Locality                Base Case Scenario          Switching
Value *
Price elasticity    Consumption    Consumption
of demand       per Capita 1/      per capita
(Ipd)            (Ipd)
Parana                -0.30             316            252 (-20%)
Posadas               -0.30             270            204 (-24%)
Villa Mercedes        -0.30             217            164 (-24%)
1/ after full impact of price elasticity
* where NPV to shareholders = 0
Exchange Rates. The base case scenario assumed that the "convertibility Law" (which pegs one
Argentine Peso to one US dollar) will continue, and that there will be no local currency devaluation
against the US dollar. Nonetheless, foreign investors or lenders cannot ignore the risk of currency
devaluation. The local currency devaluation against the US dollar affects the results mainly in two ways.
First, as the Bank loan will most probably be made in US dollars, devaluation will increase the debt
burden of the company. Second, in the case of foreign investors, dividend payments (return on
investments) would be diluted in US dollar terms. Most of the concession contracts now foresees
automatic tariff adjustments for input cost increases (such as chemical and energy costs), which may
result from currency devaluation. The currency devaluation therefore was applied only to foreign debts
and to net returns (the difference between equity investments and dividend payouts) to the shareholders.
The concession in Parana is the most sensitive to exchange rate devaluation, though still can afford up to
6 percent per annum of annual devaluation. In the case of Posadas and Villa Mercedes, annual
devaluation percentages of about 8 to 9 percent are possible before the net present values to shareholders
turn negative.



Page 65
Table 5
Sensitivity Analysis - Exchange Rate Devaluation and NPV to Shareholders (Peso million)
Locality            Base Case Scenario        Switching value*
Parana                      4.4                    6% p.a.
Posadas          I10.1                             9% p.a.
Villa Mercedes              1.9                    8% p.a.
* where NPV to Shareholders = 0
Operating and Investment Costs. Operating and investment costs also contribute significantly to the
feasibility of the concessions. We are assuming that private operators would run the utility more
efficiently, with less employees and lower operating and investment costs. The sensitivity analysis
suggests that all concessions can afford some cost overruns, with Parana being the most sensitive.
Table 6
Sensitivity Analysis -Operating and Investment Costs and NPV to Shareholders (Peso million)
Locality              Base Case Scenario                Switchin value*
Investment Cost       Operating Cost
_______ __  Overrun            Overrun
Parana                        4.4                  19%                   25%
Posadas                       10.1                 25%                   38%
Villa Mercedes                1.9                  32%                   34%
* where NPV to Shareholders = 0
Canon. The base case scenario assumed a monthly payment of 2 percent of revenue. In reality,
concessionaires will bid at a canon level that may be lower or higher than the 2 percent to obtain the rates
of return they require. Keeping other factors constant, table 7 presents the level of canon payments each
of the three concessions can expect depending on the rates of return expected by the concessionaires.
Table 7
Sensitivity Analysis - Maximum Expected Range of Canon Payments -- by expected rates of return
(% of revenue)
Expected Rates of      Discount rate         Discount rate         Discount rate
Return to the            at 12%               At 15%                At 20%
Investors
Parana                        9%                   6%                    2%
Posadas                      12%                    9%                   4%
Villa Mercedes               11%                    8%                   3 %
* Canon payments where NPV shareholders = 0
Risk Analysis
Although sensitivity analysis is useful in identifying the critical assumptions, it does not tell us the
probability of success or failure. Different variables affect the outcomes in a different manner, and to a
different degree. The probability of changes in a certain variable may be larger than another. Hence, we
conducted a risk analysis to determine the most likely outcome of each of the concessions, and how
different factors contribute to the different outcome indicators (NPVs, minimum debt service coverage,
maximum debt equity ratio, and minimum liquidity ratios). With the risk analysis, we also could measure
the relative sensitivity of the outcome indicators to different variables. The probability distributions we
used for the five critical factors (price elasticity, investment and operating cost overrun, UFW and



Page 66
collection inefficiency) are the same as those used for the cost-benefit analysis in Annex 4.
Probability of Positive NPV According to the risk analysis, the mean expected values of the NPV to
shareholders are positive for all three concessions. However, the probability that the NPV is larger than
zero varies from one concession to another, as can be seen in table 8. The concession in Posadas is the
most robust with a 88 percent probability that the concession will generate positive cash flows, while that
of Parana only has a 63 percent probability that its cash flow will be positive. The return to investors
show that Posadas is the most robust, while that of Parana is the most risky to potential investors but still
with 88% chance of success. The probability that the financial indicators will be adequate are high, with
the exception of the debt service coverage. This is because of the relatively high debt service in the earlier
years of concession.
Table 8
Expected Values and Probabilities (at 12% discount rate, in '000 Pesos)
Indicator                                Parana          Posadas      Villa Mercedes
NPV of cash      Mean expected value        1.8            7.4              1.3
flow                                                  _ _ _ _ _
Probability >0           63%             88%              62%
NPV of return to   Mean expected value     4.2             10.1             1.9
investors
Probability >0           88%             99%              98%
Minimum debt    Mean expected value         1.1            1.0              1.0
service coverage
Probability >I           75%             53%              50%
Maximum debt   Mean expected value          1.3            1.4              1.4
equity ratio
Probability <1.7         100%            99%              99%
Minimum          Mean expected value       1.09            1.01            1.14
liquidity ratio
Probability < I          100%            72%             100%
Risk Factors and their Contribution to NPV of Cashflow. As shown below, the degree of sensitivity of
the different financial viability indicators to the risk factors identified vary from one concession to the
other. In all cases, investment and operating costs, as well as price elasticity are the factors that determine
the viability of the concessions.
Table 9
Risk Analysis - Sensitivity of Return on NPV of Cashflow to Risk Factors - as measured by
contribution to variance
Indicator                   Parana               Posadas            Villa Mercedes
Price Elasticity              12%                   2%                   12%
Operating cost overrun        28%                  20%                   34%
Investment cost overrun       57%                  69%                   48%
Collection efficiency          3%                   7%                    4%
Unaccounted-for water         0.4%                  2%                   1.4%
100                  100                  100



Page 67
Annex 5 - Attachment
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Financial Summary for Municipal Water Concession of Villa Mercedes
Years Ending December: 1997 through 2006
(In Thousands of Current Pesos)
1997      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002       2003      2004      2005       2006    Average
Annual
Growth
Forecast
Income Statement Items
Metered Voluine (000 m3)
Water                                       166      1,067     2,157     3,184     4,150      5,101     5,942      6,808     7,700      8,490   62%
Sewerage                                    121       606      1,281     1,873      2,430     2,947     3,427      3,921     4,429      4,880   57%
Tariff($/m3 1997)
Water                                      0.18       033       0.33      0.33       0.33      0.33      0,33       0.33      0.33       0.33
Sewerage                                   0.08       0.33      0.33      0.33       0.33      0.33      0.33       0.33      0.33       0.33
Monthly Charge (non metered ctistomers)
Water                                      7.30       7.30      7.30      7.30       7.30      7.30      7.30       7.30      7.30       7.30
Sewerage                                   1.87       1.87      1.87      1.87       1.87      1.87       1.87      1.87      1.87       1.87
Revenues (Total)                               3,492     4,372     4,700      4,880     5,216     5,673      5,929     6,635      6,791      7,174
Operating Income                               1,415     2,158     2,287      2,355     2,585     2,929      3,087     3,621      3,671      3,970
NetIncome                                       713       993        878       804        911      1095       1171      1475      1463       1640
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                                865      1,426     1,582      1,669     1,829     2,062      2,170     2,525     2,569      2,765
Borrowings                                     1,762     2,419     1,624      1,146     1,004       949       710      1,190       541        725
Equity Investments                              881      1,209       812       573        502       474       355        595       271        362
Total Sources                               3,507     5,054     4,019      3,388     3,335      3,485     3,235     4,309      3,380      3,852
Capital Expenditures                           2,355     4,028     2,469      1,052     1,050      1,159      909      1,999      1,030      1,638
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)             606       734        442       340        267       272       240        246       198        169
Debt Service                                      0        150       355      1,323     1,395     1,424      1,437     1,394      1,466      1,379
Dividend                                          0       657        610       573        545       590       596        630       630        623
Total Applications                          2,961     5,569     3,877      3,287     3,258      3,445     3,182     4,269      3,324      3,810
Cliange inCash                                  546      -515        142       101        77         40        53        41         56         42
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                                  916       441        494       512        514       518       516        523       517        506
Less Current Liabilities                     395        387       319       265        231       231        217       223       201         188
NetFixedAssets                                 2,835     7,266     9,849    10,901    11,862    12,S93    13,619    15,373    16,094        17,321
Total Assets                                3,356     7,320    10,025    11,147    12,145    13,179    13,918    15,673    16,399        17,639
Debt                                           1,762     4,180     5,805      6,122     6,252     6,307      6,116     6,432      6,054      5,914
Equity                                         1,594     3,139     4,220      5,025     5,893     6,872      7,802     9,241    10,345      11,724
Total Liabilities and Equity                3,356     7,320    10,025    11,147    12,145    13,179    13,918    15,673    16,399        17,639
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
%of Reventie                                  40.5%     49.4%      48.7%     48.3%     49.6%      51.6%     52.1%      54.6%     54.1%      55.3%
Net Income as a
%of Revenue                                   20.4%     22.7%      18.7%     16.5%     17.5%      19.3%     19.7%      22.2%     21.5%      22.9%
Return on Average Invested Capital                         42.0%     23.9%      17.4%     16.7%      17.1%     16.0%      17.3%     14.9%      14.9%
Debt Service Coverage                                         4.6       3.2        1,0       1.1       1.3        1.3       1.6        1.6        1.9
Percent of Total Capital Expenditures financed by Internal Sources
11.0%     13.5%     31.8%       0.5%     15.9%     31.6%      54.2%     44.3%     87.9%      74.2%
CLurrent Ratio                                    2.32       1.14      1.55       1.93      2.23      2.24       2.38      2.35       2.57      2.69
Debt as % ofTotal Capitalization                    1.1       1.3       1.4        1.2       1.1       0.9        0.8       0.7        0.6        0.5
Main Efficiency Ratios
Unaccounted for Water
% of Water Produced                            45%        42%       37%       35%        27%       27%        20%       20%        20%       20%
incl. losses due to non-.netering*             34%        81%       71%       64%        51%       47%        37%       34%        31%       28%
Operating Ratio (incl. depreciations)             62%        56%       58%       59%        57%       55%        55%       53%       54%        53%
Working Ratio (excl. depreciations)               59%        51%       51%       52%        50%       48%       48%        45%       46%        45%,
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost                     41%        37%       35%       34%        33%       32%        32%       31%        30%       30%
Labor Productivity (per 1000 connections)           2.2       2 2       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0
Collection Rates                                  75%        75%       80%       82%        84%       85%        86%       87%       88%        89%
*including estimated volume of water which could be billed if metered. In the case of Comodoro, water cooperatives are overcharging non-metered customers.



Page 68
Annex 5 - Attachment
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Financial Summary for Municipal Water Concession of Parana
Years Ending December: 1997 through 2006
(In Thousands of Current Pesos)
1997     1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      Average
Annual
Growth
Forecast
Income Statement Items
Metered Volume (000 m3)
Water                               5,059     7,688     10,657    14,507    17,510    21,590    24,731    25,455    26,197    26,672   23%
Sewerage                            2,657     3,907     5,387     7,100     9,051     11,248    13,695    14,876    16,096    16,805   25%
Tariff ($/m3 1997)
Water                               0.41      0.41      0.41      0.41      0.41      0.41      0.41      0.41      0.41      0.41
Sewerage                            0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21
Monthly Charge (non metered customers)
Water                               10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     1000      10.00      10.00     10.00
Sewerage                            5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00
Revenues (Total)                         10,262    12,151    15,010    17,678    19,004    20,012    20,509    21,226    22,117    23,178
Operating Income                        4,073     5,561     7,893     9,816      10,778    10,215    10,314    10,635    11,120    11,820
Net Income                              2056      2570      3601      4246      4387      3581      3417      3505      3714      4070
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                        2,473     3,609     5,300     6,759     7,568     7,280     7,414     7,647     7,980     8,453
Borrowings                              4,809     3,914     6,171     6,290     6,788     5,186     3,868     3,713      3,295     3,417
Equity Investments                      2,404      1,957    3,086     3,145     3,394     2,593      1,934     1,857     1,648     1,708
Total Sources                         9,686     9,480     14,557    16,194    17,750    15,058    13,216    13,217    12,923    13,579
Capital Expenditures                    6,445     6,671      10,172    9,152    9,755     6,333     4,101     4,096      3,863    4,665
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)      1,687    2,018      1,509     1,381     1,287    966       972       838       735       644
Debt Service                            0         409       741       3,394     4,342     5,269     5,698     5,765      5,787     5,712
Dividend                                0          1,806     1,858     1,977    2,134     2,085     2,298     2,319     2,365     2,406
Total Applications                    8,132     10,904    14,280    15,903    17,519    14,653    13,069    13,017    12,750    13,426
Change in Cash                          1,554     -1,424    277       291       231       406       146       200       173       152
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                          2.606      1,274     1,475     1,640     1,728     1,877     1,891     1,884     1,866     1,835
Less Current Liabilities              1,209     1,175     1,133     1,096     1,049     1,072     1,082     1,034     1,003     974
Net Fixed Assets                         7,872     15,804    26,561    35,936    45,513    51,358    54,703    57,805    60,455    63,665
Total Assets                          9,269     15,903    26,903    36,480    46,192    52,164    55,512    58,655    61,317    64,527
Debt                                    4,809     8,722      14,894    19,056    23,122    25,005    25,301    25,400    25,066    24,902
Equity                                  4,460     7,180      12,009    17,423    23,070    27,159    30,212    33,255    36,251    39,624
Total Liabilities and Equity          9,269     15,903    26,903    36,480    46,192    52,164    55,512    58,655    61,317    64,527
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
%of Revenue                             39.7%     45.8%     52.6%     55.5%     56.7%     51.0%     50.3%     50.1%      50.3%     51.0%
Net Income as a
%ofRevenue                              20.0%     21.1%     24.0%     24.0%     23.1%      17.9%     16.7%     16.5%     16.8%     17.6%
Return on Average lnvestedCapital                    44.1%     37.5%     28.9%     21.7%     14.3%     11.9%     11.0%     10.7%     10.7%
Debt Service Coverage                                3.9       5.1       1.6       1.4       1.2       1.1       1.2       1.3       1.4
Percent of Total Capital Expenditures financed by Internal Sources
12.2%    17.7%     30.0%     21.7%      19.9%    16.5%      18.1%    25.5%     37.7%     45.0%
CurrentRatio                               2.16      1.08      1.30      1.50      1.65      1.75      1.75      1.82      1.86      1.88
Debtas%ofTotalCapitalization               1.1       1.2       1.2       1.1       1.0       0.9       0.8       0.8       0.7       0.6
Main Efficiency Ratios
Unaccounted for Water
%of Water Produced                      41%       39%       34%       28%       22%       21%       20%        19%       18%       17%
incl. losses due to non-metering'       79%       73%       63%       53%       45%       39%       34%       28%        27%       26%
Operating Ratio (incl. depreciations)      62%       58%       53%       51%       51%       57%       58%       59%       59%       58%
Working Ratio (excl. depreciations)        60%       54%       47%       44%       43%       49%       50%       50%       50%       49%
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost              34%       33%       30%       28%       27%       23%       23%       23%       23%       22%
LaborProductivity(per l000connections)     3.1       2.0       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.8       1.8       1.8        1.8      1.7
Collection Rates                           75%       75%       80%       82%       83%       84%       85%       86%       87%       88%
*including estimated volume of water which could be billed if metered. In the case of Comodoro, water cooperatives are overcharging non-metered customers.



Page 69
ANNEX 5 - ATTACHMENT
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
Financial Summary for Municipal Water Concession of Posadas, Misiones
Years Ending December: 1997 through 2006
(In Thousands of Current Pesos)
1997     1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006       Average
Annual
Growth
Forecast
Income Statement Items
Metered Volume (000 m3)
Water                                 7,478     10,435    11,646    17,241    21,178    24,220    26,071    27,220    28,407    29,101    18%
Sewerage                              2,759     4,304     5,794    7,515     9,991      11,499    12,670    12,917    13,170    13,422    22%
Tariff ($/m3 1997)
Water                                 0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62
Sewerage                              0.28      0.28      0.28     0.28      0.28      0.28      0.28      0.28      0.28      0.28
Monthly Charge (non metered customers)
Water                                 14.73     14.73     14.73     14.73     14.73     14.73     14.73     14.73     14.73     14.73
Sewerage                              7.74      7.74      7.74      7,74      7.74      7.74      7.74      7.74      7.74     7.74
Revenues (Total)                          13,582    20,421    23,042    23,926    25,965    28,248    29,589    30,574    32,927    36,816
Operating Income                          4,765     11,880    14,751    12,686    13,533    14,879    15,742    16,254    17,808    21,048
Net Income                                2274      6326      7058      4439      4597      5258      5739      6121      7133      8847
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                          2,839     7,739     10,113    9,109     9,745     10,648    11,211    11,491    12,446    14,680
Borrowings                                4,175     9,213     18,226    8,249     6,749     4,620     2,365     1,483     2,211     9,758
Equity Investments                        2,087     4,606     9,113     4,124     3,375     2,310     1,183     741       1,105     4,879
Total Sources                          9,101     21,559    37,451    21,483    19,869    17,578    14,759    13,715    15,763    29,316
Capital Expenditures                      1,344     15,463    28,019    8,007     7,317     6,221     5,030     4,150     6,484     19,954
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)       4,341     5,192     3,520     1,855     1,159     243      -769      -261       75        353
Debt Service                              0         355       1,138     7,203     8,054     8,441     8,288     7,643     6,889     6,408
Dividend                                  0         4,321     4,056     3,120     2,753     2,108     2,049     2,144     2,278     2,644
Total Applications                     5,685     25,330    36,733    20,185    19,284    17,014    14,598    13,676    15,726    29,360
Change in Cash                           3,416     -3,772    719        1,297    585       564        161      39        37        -43
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                            6,017     2,498     2,819     3,068     2,983     2,728     2,293     2,053     1,966     1,951
Less Current Liabilities               2,583     2,473     2,140     1,621     1,346     943       849       872       947       1,114
Net Fixed Assets                          5,102     24,335    54,022    62,431    69,157    73,797    76,179    77,852    81,866    98,870
Total Assets                           8,536     24,360    54,701    63,877    70,794    75,581    77,623    79,033    82,886    99,707
Debt                                      4,175     13,387    31,613    35,346    37,046    36,373    33,542    30,233    28,125    33,865
Equity                                    4,361     10,973    23,088    28,531    33,749    39,209    44,081    48,800    54,761    65,842
Total Liabilities and Equity           8,536     24,360    54,701    63,877    70,794    75,581    77,623    79,033    82,886    99,707
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue                              35.1%     58.2%     64.0%     53.0%     52.1%     52.7%     53.2%     53.2%     54.1%     57.2%
Net Incoine as a
%ofRevenie                                16.7%     31.0%     30.6%     18.6%     17.7%     18.6%     19.4%     20.0%     21.7%     24.0%
Return on Average Invested Capital                     82.5%    41.4%      17.2%     14.8%     14.4%     13.8%     13.2%     13.8%     14.7%
Debt Service Coverage                        #DIV10!  7.2        5.8       1.0       1.1       1.2       1.4       1.5       1.8       2.2
Percent of Total Capital Expenditures financed by Intemal Sources
-111.7%   14.2%     19.5%    0.6%       7.3%     31.6%      73.4%    99.0%      84.6%     39.7%
Current Ratio                                2.33      1.01      1.32      1.89      2.22      2.89      2.70      2.35      2.08      1.75
Debt as% ofTotal Capitalization              1.0       1.2       1.4       1.2       1.1       0.9       0.8       0.6       0.5       0.5
Main Efficiency Ratios
Unaccounted for Water
% of Water Produced                       35%       35%       35%       33%       30%       29%       28%       26%       25%       24%
incl. losses due to non-metering*         52%       50%       44%       40%       41%       36%       33%       30%       29%       27%
Operating Ratio (incl. depreciations)        65%      45%       42%        54%       56%       55%       55%       55%       54%       52%
Working Ratio (excl. depreciations)          65%      42%        36%      47%       48%       47%       47%        47%       46%       43%
Personnel Cost/OperatingCost                41%        35%       27%       21%       20%       19%       18%       18%       18%       18%
Labor Productivity (per 1000 connections)   4.2       4.1        3.2       2.4      2.2       2.0        1.9       1.8       1.8       1.8
Collection Rates       60%                  60%        65%       72%       77%       82%       87%       92%       92%       92%       92%
*including estimated volume of water which could be billed if metered. In the case of Comodoro, water cooperatives are overcharging non-metered customers.



Page 70
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
A. Procurement
Procurement of consultant services will be carried out according to the provisions of the "Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (revised through January 1999)
and of goods and works according to the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans" (revised through January 1999).
As described in Annex 2 in detail, the project has three components: (i) the investment component, which
finances goods and works to be procured by private water utilities; (ii) the institutional component, which
finances technical assistance for PSP preparation and training programs for regulators; and (iii)
environmental component; which finances studies and technical assistance to develop a sector
environmental framework as well as limited purchase of equipment for emergency environmental impact
mitigation measures.
The investment component has three sub-components: (a) PSP arrangements (concession contracts)
procured following the Bank guidelines (Part A); (b) other private utilities and cooperatives which did not
award PSP contracts according to the Bank guidelines (Part B); and (c) expansion of water and sanitation
services to the poor to be implemented by private water utilities (Part C).
For Part A of the investment component, the concession contracts will be procured following the criteria
established in section 3.13 of the Guidelines. To facilitate the preparation and review process, a standard
concession bidding document and the guidelines were developed during project preparation and were
discussed with the Regional Procurement Advisor's office. Nonetheless, because of the peculiarity of
each concession contract, the bidding documents and the contract award process will be cleared on an
individual basis with the Regional Procurement Adviser's office. Once the award process for the
concession contracts is approved by the Bank, the winning concessionaire can procure goods and works
using their own procedures.
Part B and Part C of the investment component and the goods purchases under the environmental
component will be procured following the standard Bank guidelines procedures and prior review rules.
All contracts which can be packaged to exceed the equivalent of US$5.0 million for civil works and
US$350,000 for equipment or materials will be procured on the basis of intemational competitive bidding
(ICB). All other contracts for civil works and goods will be procured on the basis of national competitive
bidding (NCB small works) and shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Shopping will be an
accepted method for procurement of goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract,
up to an aggregated amount of US$200,000 . A minimum of three quotations from qualified local
contractors will be an acceptable m ethod of procurement of small works estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$300,000
The technical assistance part of the institutional and of environmental components will follow the Bank
guidelines for the employment of consultants. Except for smaller contracts as defined in the Table B
below, consultants will be contracted through quality and cost based selection process, and are subject to
Bank's prior review of all procurement documents including terms of reference, short-lists, letter of
invitation, draft contract, technical evaluation report, and contract award report.
Table A and table B summarize the procurement arrangements and thresholds, respectively.



Page 71
Table A: Project Costs by procuremnt Arrangements (in SS$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category               iCB    r  NCI           Other        Total Cost
(including
. contingencies)
1. Investment Component
1.1 Part A - Concessions/PSP contracts
(Procurement by section 3.14 of the Guidelines)
Works                                    18.0 (10.8)                            18.0 (10.8)
Goods                                    12.0 (7.2)                              12.0 (7.2)
1.2 Part B and C - Other utilities
Works                                     2.2 (1.1)    3.9 (2.1)    0.3 (0.1)    6.3 (3.3)
Goods                                    3.4 (1.8)    0.7 (0.4)   0.1 (0.1)      4.2 (2.2)
2. Institutional Component
Consultants                                                      5.2 (5.2)      5.2 (5.2)
3. Environmental Component
Goods                                                0.1 (0.1)    0.1 (0.1)      0.2 (0.2)
Consultants                                                       0.8 (0.8)      0.8 (0.8)
4 . Front-end Fee                                                     0.3 (0.3)      0.3 (0.3)
Total                    35.6 (20.9)   4.8 (2.6)   6.8 (6.6)     47.1 (30.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
F         Expenditure            Contract Value         Procurement              . Contracts Subject to
t  _   Category     (Threshold)            Method                     Prior Review
1. Investment Component
1.1 Part A - Concessions/PSP   N.A.                   ICB                        All /l
Contracts
Once concession/PSP contracting and award process reviewed and approved by the
Works and Goods             Bank, sub-borrowers (private water utilities) will use their own procurement
procedures.
1.2 Part Band C
Works                      >5,000,000              ICB                       All/
300,000 to 5,000,000    NCB                      First two contracts
<300,000              Three quotations           None
Goods                       >350,000               ICB                        All"
100,000 to 350,000    NCB                        First two contracts
<100,000              Shopping                   None
2. Institutional Components
Consultants
Firmns                   >100,000               Quality and Cost based    All /2
<100,000              Consultant's Qualifications  ToR and Short List
Individuals               >50,000               Based on Chapter V of      All /2
<50,000               Guidelines                 ToR and Short list
3. Environmental Component



Page 72
Expend9 0witture.   t0 Contract Value       Procurement              Contracts Subect to
Category            (Threshold)           Method                    Prior Review
Consultants                 Same as above (2)
Goods                       Same as above (1.2)
Note: Consultant contracts will require prior review by the Bank even if below the threshold as defined above in the
following cases: single source selection of firms, assignments of critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising
original contract value to above thresholds.
/1 All means: Pre-qualification document (if used), bidding document, draft contract, bid evaluation report, and award
recommendations.
/2 All means: including terms of reference, short-lists, letter of invitation, draft contract, technical evaluation report, and
final evaluation report.
Procurement Capacity Assessment: A specific procurement capacity assessment was not carried out, as
the project was appraised prior to November 1, 1998. ENOHSA has a group of staff trained to handle
procurement process following the Bank procurement guidelines, as it manages an ongoing Bank project
(Loan 3821 -AR). Nonetheless, ENOHSA staff as well as sub-borrowers of Part B and C of the
investment component need to update their skills to be able to procure in accordance with the latest Bank
guidelines. The project management component of the project will finance such training activities.
B. Disbursement
Of the total US$47.1 million project, about 64 percent will be financed by the Bank. The water utility
companies will finance the counterpart required for the Investment Component.
The Government through the executing agency at ENOHSA will establish a Special Account in the
amount of US$3 million in order to expedite project execution. ENOHSA, by use of the Special account,
will make payments directly to contractors, suppliers, and consultants. Expenditures for individual
contracts of goods and consultants, for which prior review by the Bank is not required will be disbursed
against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Detailed supporting documentation, including certification,
for expenditures will be kept by the PMU and submitted to the Bank. Full documentation for all contracts
requiring the Bank's prior review will be submitted. Detailed documentation will be retained by water
utilities and PMU for inspection during supervision missions and for audit by external auditors. No force
account is envisaged. Allocation of loan proceeds is presented in Table C.
C. Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
Advance contracting, about US$3.0 million, and retroactive financing, about US$3.0 million, which
represents 10 percent and 6.1 percent of the loan, respectively, will be provided for eligible expenditures
incurred after June 30, 1998, or a date twelve months before the signing date of the Loan Agreement. The
eligible expenditures will consist of services which support the objectives/components of the project, as
stated in Block 1, Sections 1 and 2, and Annex 2. Advance contracting and retroactive financing must
follow Bank procurement and consultant guidelines.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                               Amount min VS$     FinaniPente
I.:                                                    mlillionl;iii-   ;.S 
Investment Component Part A
1. Works                                          10.8                  60%
2. Goods                                          7.2                   60%
Investment Component Part B and C



Page 73
Expenditure Category                          Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
million
3. Works                                     3.3                 52%
4. Goods                                      2 2                52%
Institutional Component
5. Consultants                                5.2                100%
Environmental Component
6. Consultants                                0.8                100%
7. Goods                                      0.2           100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
Total                                             30.0
8. Front End Fee                              0.3                100%
Total                           30.0
Note. Financing percentage applies to eligible expenditures.



Page 74
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
PrQject Scedl                                    ianed                  culi;l:t,i
Time taken to prepare the project                  8                    29
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)           11/01/1996            11/01/1996
Appraisal mission departure                   05/01/1997            06/07/1997
Negotiations                                  07/01/1997           04/21/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 11/01/1997           08/31/1999
Prepared by: Sub-secretariat of Water Resources/Secretariat of National Resources and
Sustainable Development of the Ministry of Economy
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant (TF029356)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Abel Mejia                                       Engineering
Yoko Katakura                                    Financial Analysis
Caroline van den Berg                            Economic Analysis
Karin Kemper                                     Economic Analysis
Adrien Campbell                                  Engineering
Juan Quintero                                    Environmental Specialist
Ferenc Molnar                                    Legal
Robert Taylor                                    Private Sector Participation



Page 75
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Argentina: Water Sector Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.   Manual operativo del Proyecto, 8 Vols. (Febrero, 1998)
Unidad Ejecutora
Programas Financiados
Guias: Marco Regulador, Contrato de Concesi6n, Pliego de Licitaci6n
Manual Ambiental
Normas de Licitaci6n
Resumen de la muestra
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.   Proyecto Provincia de La Rioja. 3 Vols.
2.   Proyecto Municipalidad de Campana
3.   Proyecto Municipalidad de San Luis
4.   Proyecto Provincia de Catamarca
5.   Proyecto Provincia de de Misiones
6.   Proyecto Ciudad de Parana
7.   Proyecto Municipalidad de Maipu
8.   Provincia de Chubut
9.   Argentina: La Cooperativa como Empresa (Agua Potable y Saneamiento). 3 Vols.
Diciembre 1997, Dr. J.A. Zapata
10. Revisi6n Premisas Financieras del proyecto. Junio 1997. Dr. Roberto Dominguez
11.  Componente Extensi6n/Mejoramiento de Servicios de Agua y saneamiento en Zonas
Urbano Carenciadas. Septiembre 1997, UNICEF.
12. Analisis Ambiental Sectorial. 2 Vols. Junio 1997. S. Alcaraz, A. Calcagno, E.
Sanchez
13. Pliego de Licitaci6n tipo: La Rioja
14. Sistema Permanente de Informaci6n de Sanemiento (SPIDES). Agosto 1997.
Ministerio de Economia
15. Plan Quinquenal de Inversi6n Sectorial (PQIS). 20 Vols. Agosto 1997. Ministerio de
Economia
16. Informe Indicadores de Gesti6n de Saneamiento. 6 Vols. Enero 1997. Ministerio de
Economia
17. Proyecci6n Financiera de ENOHSA, periodo 1996-2025. Enero 1997. ENOHSA
18. Cursos de Regulaci6n Econ6mica para el Sector Agua y Saneamiento. 3 Vols.
Septiembre 1997. UADE/EDI/OXERA
19. Winners and Lossers in the privatization of water utilities. March 1998. C Van den
Berg, Y. Katakura. The World Bank
C. Other
1.   Argentina. Reforming Provincial Utilities: Issues, Challenges and Best Practice.
January 22, 1996. A. Estache et. al. The World Bank
2.   Argentina. managing Environmental Pollution: Issues and Options. October 16,
1995. 2 Vols. A. Liebenthal et. al. The World Bank



Page 76
3.   Argentina. Argentina's Poor: A Profile. June 27, 1995. E. Javier et al. The World
Bank
4.   Nota sobre algunos aspectos de la Pobreza y el Saneamiento en la Argentina.
Octubre 1995. J. Rais. Ministerio de Economia
5.   Argentina. Winners and Losers from Argentina Privatization. 1995. A. Estache et.
al. The World Bank
6.   Buenos Aires Concession. Bidding Documents, Regulatory Framework, Concession
Contracts, Regulatory Decisions
7.   Water Concession in Buenos Aires. Issues and Propositions. June 1997. Thomas-
Olivier Nasser. The World Bank
*Including electronic files.



Page 77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
Operations Portfolio
Difference Betweer,
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/       Supervision Rating 1.
Project ID    Year              Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.     Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Pfoq
Number of Closed Projects: 59
Active Projects
AR-PE-5968      1987   SEGBA                           SEGBA V                                276.00       0.00        0.00        48.13       48.13        0.00      3iU         U
AR-PE-5977      1991   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC              WTR SUPPLY II                          100.00       0.00       36.00        17.25       53.25       17.21      S           S
AR-PE-6036      1993   GOVERNMENT                      YACYRETA II                            300.00       0.00        0.00          .48         .47        0.00      li5J       (J
AR-PE-6003      1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA         RD MAINT & REHAB SCT                   340.00       0.00        0.00        19.52       13.54        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-6062      1994   MIN OF ECONOMY                  CAPITAL MKT TA                           8.50       0.00        0.00         2.15        2.13        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-6025      1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA         MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N                   100.00       0.00        0.00         5.64        3.68        0.00      HS         liS
AR-PE-6060      1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA               MUNIC DEVT II                          210.00        0.00       0.00       146.61      -23.21        0,00      H;         ilS
AR-PE-6018      1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC              PROV DEVT II                           225.00       0.00        0.00       163.02        6.68        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-5992      1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA         SECONDARY ED I                         190.00       0.00        0.00       122.76      112.00        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-45687     1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA               H.INSURANCE TA                          25.00       0.00        0.00         4.06        1.31        0.00      HS         NS
AR-PE-38883     1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA           ENT.EXPORT DV.                          38.50       0.00        0.00        14.46       14.45        5.51      S           S
AR-PE-37049    1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                       16.00       0.00        0.00        15.32       11.32        0.00      U           U
AR-PE-34091     1996   REP OF ARGENTINA                HIGHER ED REFORM                       165.00       0.00        0.00       105.35       77.94       61.01      S
AR-PE-6057      1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA              SECNDARY ED 2                          115.50       0.00        0.00        95.18       53.95      -20.32      S           :
AR-PE-6055      1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA              MINING SCTR DEVT                        30.00       0.00        0.00         6.36        -.74        0.00      HS         itS
AR-PE-6040      1996   GOVERNMENT                      FORESTRY/DV                             16.00       0.00        0.00        11.34         .66        0.00      S          S
AR-PE-6030      1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA              PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV                   101.40       0.00        0.00        80.00       55.73        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-46821     1997   GOVT.OF ARG                     PENSION TA                              20.00       0.00        0.00        11.64        1.87        0.00       ;          :
AR-PE-43418    1997   REPUBLIC OF ARG                  AIDS PREV.&STD CTRL                     15.00       0.00        0.00         8.88         .12        0.00      liS        IIS
AR-PE-40808    1997   GOA                              N.FOREST/PROTC                          19.50       0.00        0.00        16.98       -1.59        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-39584     1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA               B.A.URB.TSP                            200.00       0.00        0.00       160.85       20.86        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-6059      1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC              MTL.CHD.HTH.2                          100.00       0.00        0.00        84.07        -.95        0.00      S          liS
AR-PE-6052      1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA               FLOOD PROTECTION                       200.00       0.00        0.00       192.37       26.37        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-6010      1997   GOA                             PROV AG DEVT I                         125.00       0.00        0.00       122.15       10.09        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-5980      1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA               PROV ROADS                             300.00       0.00        0.00       293.90       75.89        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-55935    1998   GOVERNMENT                       EL NINO EMERGENCY                       42.00       0.00        0.00        41.00       21.67          .34     S           U
AR-PE-55477     1998   GOVT OF ARGENTINA               MINING TA                               39.50       0.00        0.00        35.50       18.60        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-52590    1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            NAT HWY REHAB6MAINT                    450.00       0.00        0.00       387.46      170.98        0.00      5           S
AR-PE-51695    1998   GOVERNMENT                       P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                          75.00       0.00        0.00        25.00       16.67        0.00      S           s
AR-PE-51694     1998   GOVERNMENT                      P.RFM(S.JUAN)                           50.00       0.00        0.00        40.00       25.00        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-51693    1998   GOVERNMENT           .           P.RFM(SALTA)                            75.00       0.00        0.00        30.00        0.00        0.00      C           S
AR-PE-50714     1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA           SECOND.ED 3                            119.00       0.00        0.00        84.25       70.82        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-50713    1998   MINISTRY OF ECONOMY              MODEL COURT DEV.                         5.00       0.00        0.00         5.00        1.42        0.00      S
AR-PE-49269    1998   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               SOC PROTEC 3                           284.00       0.00        0.00       224.69      -59.31        0.00       .          S
AR-PE-6050      1998   REP OF ARGENTINA                POLLUTION MGT.                          18.00       0.00        0.00        18.00        3.52        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-6041      1998   GOVERNMENT                      SMALL FARMER DV.                        75.00       0.00        0.00        61.38       10.15       -6.74      g           S
AR-PE-6006      1998   MIN. OF ECONOMY                  P.RFM(TUCUMAN)                        100.00       0.00        0.00        45.00        0.00        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-62992    1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA          SPEC REPURCHASE                        505.05       0.00        0.00       505.05        0.00        0.00      S           S
AR-PE-62991     1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA         SPECIAL SAL (SSAL)                  2,525.25        0.00        0.00    1,500.00         0.00        0.00      S           S



Page 78
Difference Between.
expected
Original Amount in USs Millions                   and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/        Supervision Rating t
Project ID    Year                Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Ob7   Imp Proq
AR-PE-57449      1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             ARG YEAR 2000                             30.30        0.00         0.00        30.30         0.00        0.00       S           S
AR-PE-6058       1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             SOC.PROTECT 4                             90.75        0.00         0.00        90.75         1.57        0.00       HS         HS
Total                                                                                           7,720.25         0.00       36.00    4,871.85        845.04        57.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                2,812.40            8,391.48            11,203.88
of which has been repaid:                 213.38             3,388.02            3,601.40
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                7,470.86            5,006.25            12,477.11
Amount sold                                        0.00                12.79               12.79
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               12.79                12.79
Total Undisbursed                :             4,871.85                 2.75            4,874.60
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance  (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced  (HS   highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U-
unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvemernts irn Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM494-901), August 23,
1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 79
Argentina
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1960/95/97/99         Acindar                83.75   16.43   10.00   53.89   58.75   16.43   10.00   53.89
1977/84/86/88/94/96   Alpargatas             24.23    6.05    6.37   89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37   48.79
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96   Minetti              9.17    0.00   10.00   24.55    9.17    0.00   10.00   24.55
1986/89/91/97         Banco Roberts-AL       10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987                  BGN-TBR                  .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89               BGN-Bolland              .09    0.00    0.00    0.00      .09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89/90/96/97      Terninal 6             17.88    0.00    0.00   17.33   17.88    0.00    0.00   17.33
1988/93               BungeyBom               2.13    0.00    0.00   16.04    2.13    0.00    0.00   16.04
1989                  BGN-Algodonera           .11    0.00    0.00    0.00      .11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Ferrum               .33    0.00    0.00    0.00      .33    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-FRIGOTOBA            .05    0.00    0.00    0.00      .05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Interpack            .10    0.00    0.00    0.00      .10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Parafina             .25    0.00    0.00    0.00      .25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Willmor              .28    0.00    0.00    0.00      .28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/96               Banco Frances           4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  CIP                     0.00     .08    0.00    0.00    0.00      .08    0.00    0.00
1990/94               Petroken               19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65   19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65
1991                  BCA                      .39    0.00    0.00      .50     .39    0.00    0.00     .50
1992                  FEPSA                   6.40    0.00    0.00    4.40    6.40    0.00    0.00    4.40
1992                  Oleaginosa Oeste        3.82    0.00    5.00    4.04    3.82    0.00    5.00    4.04
1992                  Rioplatense             5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67
1992                  San Jorge               0.00   27.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93/96            Malteria Pampa         10.59    0.00    1.00    7.84   10.59    0.00    1.00    7.84
1992/95               Bridas                 28.23    0.00    0.00   42.45   28.23    0.00    0.00   42.45
1993                  Argentina Equity        0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Nuevo Central           5.00    3.00    0.00    7.50    5.00    3.00    0.00    7.50
1993                  Yacylec                 6.60    5.04    0.00   14.67    6.60    5.04    0.00   14.67
1993/94               Molinos                 0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00



Page 80
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval           Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                 Aceitera Chabas        0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00
1994                 Aceitera General      11.25    6.90    0.00    0.00   11.25    6.90    0.00    0.00
1994                 Quilmes                9.50    0.00    0.00    6.25    9.50    0.00    0.00    6.25
1994/95              EDENOR                13.00    0.00   15.00   19.00   13.00    0.00   15.00   19.00
1994/95/96           Aguas                 63.47    7.00    0.00  178.11   63.47    7.00    0.00  178.11
1994/99              BGN                   12.00    0.00   36.00    0.00   12.00    0.00   11.00    0.00
1995                 Banco Roberts          0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
1995                 CEPA                   9.67    0.00    0.00    1.20    9.67    0.00    0.00    1.20
1995                 Mastellone             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Nahuelsat             22.50    5.00    0.00    0.00   22.50    5.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 SanCor                16.25    0.00   20.00   18.00   16.25    0.00   20.00   18.00
1995                 Socma                 16.67    0.00    0.00   40.00   16.67    0.00    0.00   40.00
1995                 SIDECO                 0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Terminales Port.       8.50    2.00    0.00    0.00    8.50    2.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Tower Fund             0.00   15.73    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.83    0.00    0.00
1995                 Tower Fund Mgr         0.00    .14    0.00    0.00    0.00    .07    0.00    0.00
1995/97              Kleppe/Caldero        10.57    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 Bansud                 4.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.56    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 Brahma - ARG          17.07    0.00    0.00   26.40   17.07    0.00    0.00   26.40
1996                 CAPSA                 12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00
1996                 Grunbaum               6.50    0.00    2.00    4.17    6.50    0.00    2.00    4.17
1996                 MBA                    0.00    .16    0.00    0.00    0.00    .16    0.00    0.00
1996                 Refisan               18.18    0.00    0.00   24.00   18.18    0.00    0.00   24.00
1996                 Transconor            24.79    0.00   20.00  201.30   24.79    0.00   20.00  201.30
1996                 Zanon                 11.67    0.00    6.00    0.00   11.67    0.00    6.00    0.00
1996/99              Banco Galicia         60.00    0.00    0.00  200.00   60.00    0.00    0.00  200.00
1996/99              Neuquen Basin          0.00   31.40    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.90    0.00    0.00
1997                 FRIAR                 10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1997                 Guipeba               15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                 Milkaut                8.75    0.00   10.00    4.00    8.75    0.00   10.00    4.00
1997                 T61                   10.00    0.00    5.00   30.00   10.00    0.00    5.00   30.00
1997                 Vicentin              24.06    0.00    0.00    9.00   24.06    0.00    0.00    9.00
1997/98              Suquia                35.00    0.00   10.00   25.00   35.00    0.00   10.00   25.00
1998                 AUTCL                 12.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Page 81
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  F.V. S.A.              12.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
1998                  FAID                    0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00
1998                  Hospital Privado        9.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Patagonia               5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
1998                  Patagonia Fund          0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  U.Belgrano              7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  American Plast         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 744.85  187.33  198.87  1,114.  682.75  120.86  173.87  1,073.
25                              75
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999                  ACINDAR EXPN            0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00
1999                  AMERICAN PLAST          0.00     .35    0.00    0.00
1997                  ARGIE MAE               0.00     .40    0.00   65.00
1999                  CORREO                 63.00    0.00   12.00   54.00
ARGENTINO
1999                  DI TELLA                9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  GALICIA CL              0.00    0.00    0.00  200.00
1998                  HOSPITAL PRIVADO        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  MERCANTIL ARG.         20.00    0.00   15.00    0.00
1999                  MINETTI-CAMPANA    30.00    0.00   14.00   70.00
1999                  S.A. SAN MIGUEL        12.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  U.BELGRANO             15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        150.10     .75   41.00  414.00



Page 82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Argentina at a glance                                                                             9116/98
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                    America    middle-
Argentina    & Carib.    incoe          Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year  (millions)                              35 2         494         571                     Life expectancy
GNP per capita  (Atlas method, USS)                          8.570        3,880      4,520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                             302 0        1,917      2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population  (I) I1                                                          17          15       GNP
Labor force (96.)                                               1.9         2 3         1 9      GP           n                        Gross
per                       >     ' primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                            capita            .        <      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)            26
Urban population  (% of total population)                       8s           74         73
Life expectancy at birth  (years)                                73          70         70
Infantmortality  (per1,0001ivebirths)                            22          32         30
Child malnutrition  (% of children under 5)                       2                                          Access to safe water
Access to sate water  (% of population)                          64          73         79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                              4          13         15
Gross prmary enrollment    (% of school-age population)        107          111        107                  Argentina
Male                                                                                   .                 Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976      1986        1996        1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                   51 2      110 9       298 7      322.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                       30.7       17 5        18 5        189                         Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    9 2        8 2         8 9        8.7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                          34.0       19.3        18 1        182
Gross national savings/GDP                          34.1       148         16f5        164                            T.
Current account balancelGDP                          1.3       -2.6        -1 3        -29       Domestic 9......
;  Interest paymentslGDP                             0.9        3.3         1 9        2.0                                        Investment
Total debVIGDP                                      18.1       47 3        32 4       32 4           n-
Total debt service/exports                          34.4       828         47 2       493
Present value of debt/GDP                                                  29 5
Present value of debtlexports                                             277.7                                 Indebtedness
1976-86   1987-97       1996        1997    1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                        06        38         4.8         86          40            'sa"Argentina
GNP per capita                           -1.9        2.9        3 7         7.1        31                   Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services             28         8 5        6.7         9.1        65                         __.W
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976      1986        1996        1997       [Growtth rates of output and investment (%)
(%6 of GDP)                                                                                     I vo.2jjgi:  
Agriculture                                          8.2        7 8         7 7         7 3                                                                i
Industry                                            50 9      37.4         35 5       36.4       2
Manufacturing                                     39.1       27 4        24 7        24.8         1                                   -
Services                                            410       54 8         568        56 3        o
Private oonsumption                                 586 6                                       ks -
General government consumption                       94                                                           003 j
Imports of goods and services                        59         63          92          94       ___              GD/        GDP ___  ____  __ ____;
1976-86   1987-97         1996       1997       Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                                                                                             5   g 
Agriculture                                          1 2        2.8         3 0         3 3     10
Industry                                            -1.5        3.5         50         11 2      r
Manufacturing                                      -13        30          5 3         92       r0
Senvices                                             21         41          4.9         7 7      Qo
Private consumption                                                           -                  20
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment                           -4 8        7.5         8 8       26.5      ,20       92 
Imports of goods and services                        1.1       19.5        182        27.1                      rrpods .p         Imporets
Gross national product                              -04         4.2         4.6         81
Note 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. f data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation I(%)
Domestic prices                                                                     200
(% change)                                                                          2
Consumer prices                                ..        ..       0.2       0.5    150
Implicit GDP deflator                       433.3     75.7        1.5      -0 5     100
Government finance                                                                   50
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                 ..       .       15.4      16 7     -50     92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                    .    . -0.8      -0.4                   GDP deflator  -OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   .       -1.8     -1.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                       .    23,493    24,970     30,000
Food                                                    .      2,203    2,148     2s,001
Meat                                                    .      1,955    2,158
Manufactures                                                  12,004    13,139    2
Total imports (cif                                        .    22,179    24,619     15000 +
Food                                                    .130                                 r         iI
Fuel and energy                                         .      1,009    1,022      5000
Capital goods                                           .      5,249    5,996         o
91  92  93  94         596  97
Export price index (1995=100)                             .       104       104
Import price index (1995=100)                   .                 104       106                :Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 .       101        98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               4,509    8,433    27,037    29,318      3                  7-    .    7      --j
Imports of goods and services               3,468    6,486    27,910    34,899           1  .1         1 #   X5   se2  9t
Resource balance                            1,141    1,947       -873    -5,581     -l .               i ;..       L 
Net income                                   -508   -4,808     -3,248    -4,005
Net current transfers                          ..        2        334      346      2-2
Current account balance                       657   -2,859      -3,787    -9,240
Financing items (net)                         261    1,976      7,563    12,302
Changes in net reserves                      -918      883    -3,776    -3,062      4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..   4,427     19,745    22,807
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           2.00E-9  9.00E-5       1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         9,278   52,450    96,677   104,539
IBRD                                        343    1,140      5,372     5,494                         A 5,494
IDA                                           0        0          0         0                               0 6,619
G: 26,25
Total debt service                           1,616    7,323    14,965    17,264                       .D4,767
IBRD                                         44      210        608      635                                    D 4,767
IDA                                           0        0          0         0                                          E 11,215
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        3
Official creditors                           42      268      1,449      758                                   /
Private creditors                         1,078      375      4,709     6,690
Foreign direct investment                     0      574      1,936     3,000
Portfolio equity                              0        0                                           F 50,194
World Bank program
Commitments                                 115      724        946     1,221     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                20      408      1,077      797      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         19      134        282      299      C - IMF                       G-Short-term
Net flows                                     1      273        795      498
Interest payments                            25       75        326      335
Net transfers                               -24      198        469      162
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/16/98



Page 84
Annex 11: Letter of Development Program
from the Government of Argentina
NOTA N°:
BUENOS AIRES, 21 de abril de 1999
Mr. Abel MEJIA
Lead Specialist
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Latin America and Caribbean Region
WORLD BANK GROUP/BANCO MUNDIAL
S/D
Ref: Prestamo Sector Agua
Potable y Saneamiento US$
70.000.000,-
Con fecha 31 de marzo de 1999, recibimos carta de ese Banco invitando a negociar
el prestamo del sector agua potable y saneamiento, conjuntamente con copia de los
documentos (PAD y Documento legal), referidos a un acuerdo de prestamo APL de
cuatro etapas por la suma de $ 200.000.000,-. Sometido dichos documentos al analisis y
discusi6n de las distintas areas de gobiemo que deben intervenir en la negociaci6n, se
incorpor6 la idea de acortar el periodo total del programa al desarrollo de dos APL. De
esta manera, es posible disminuir el grado de incertidumbre sobre el comportamiento
futuro de las distintas variables que afectan el proyecto, tanto desde el punto de vista
t6ecnico-econ6mico como del marco de politicas para el sector, mejorando asi la
probabilidad de cumplimiento de los distintos escenarios planteados.
Iniciado el proceso de negociaci6n, la Delegaci6n Argentina transmiti6 la inquietud
a los funcionarios del Banco, generandose un intercambio de opiniones de resultas del
cual, se arrib6 a la conclusi6n que resultaba factible limitar el programa a las dos
primeras fases, reformulando el periodo de ejecuci6n y reduciendo correlativamente el
monto total a la suma de SETENTA MILLONES DE DOLARES
ESTADOUNIDENSES.
En consecuencia, a efectos de ajustar el desarrollo del Programa a las etapas y
montos resultantes de dichas tratativas, este ENOHSA propone desdoblar el credito en
dos etapas a ejecutar en un periodo de cuatro afnos y medio. Los plazos estimados para
cada etapa son los que se consignan a continuaci6n.
ETAPA                       PERIODO
Primera etapa                           1999-2002
Segunda etapa                          2002-2004



Page 85
En cuanto a los disparadores (Triggers), solo resulta necesario prever los que serviran de
base para accionar la negociaci6n de un nuevo acuerdo de prestamo entre la primera y la segunda
fase, segun el cuadro siguiente:
ETAPA                        DISPARADORES (TRIGGERS)
Segunda etapa (APL 70% de la primera Cinco provincias y/o Tres provincias y/o
2)                  etapa   (APL    1), municipios       con municipios       con
comprometidos  con marcos  regulatorios contratos  de  PSP
acuerdos         de aprobados.           firmados.
subprestamos
firmados.
Lo expuesto implica modificaciones de orden puramente instrumental del credito
en gesti6n, manteniendo plena vigencia los objetivos que justifican la politica del
gobiemo para el sector y que fueran expuestas en cartas anteriores.
Como Anexo I se adjunta el plan de financiamiento para cada etapa, ajustado a los
montos asignados en el respectivo "pipeline" por Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros
de la Presidencia de la Naci6n.
Con tal motivo saludole atentamente.



Page 86
ANEXO I
APLd0: DX t00  VPe0od Plan de F'iaanciamiento  I   Perodo de Implementaci6n
Estimada~
BIRF        Otros   Total
Fecha de        Fecha de
US$ mill   %     US$      US$      comienzo       finalizaci6n
mill    mill
Primera     30.0    64    17.1    47.1       31/07/1999       31/07/2002
Etapa
APL 1
Segunda     40.0     58    29.9    69.9      31/01/2002       31/01/2004
Etapa
APL 2
Total      70.0    60    47.0    117.0



Page 87
Indicadores de Gesti6n
Marco Logico del Proyecto
Resumen Narrativo         Indicadores         Verificaci6n    Supuestos/Riesgos
Fin
Servicio de agua potable  9 ciudades de 50 a 500   Inforine     Riesgos
y saneamiento cubre    mil habitantes         Contratos de      Decisiones Politicas.
adecuadamente las      (1.600.000) en total   Concesi6n
necesidades y minimiza   3 empresas nuevas    Balances
el impacto ambiental; los calificadas y eficientes  Inf. Entes
servicios se autosustentan en 2002.           Reguladores.
en el largo plazo.     6 empresas existentes
transformadas.
Prop6sito
Empresas incorporadas al 85% habitantes con   Informe cobertura  Errores de
programa operan        servicio de agua potable  de servicios.  diagn6stico.
eficientemente y       72% habitantes con                       Modificaci6n de las
aumentan la cobertura de servicio de cloacas hasta              condiciones
agua y cloaca.         el anio 2002.                            previstas.
Balances.        Cambios politicos.
3 Empresas participantes
son autosostenible
financieramten en el afio
2002
Componentes
ENOHSA verifica        5 proyectos elegibles en  Informes de    Falta de Cumpliento
criterios de elegibilidad  tiempo 10 meses    evaluaci6n.       de los requisitos
de los proyectos                                                exigidos.
especificos.           3 proyectos evaluados
en 10 meses
ENOHSA efectua el      3 proyectos en 10 meses. Convenios       Coordinaci6n con
seguimiento y verifica el                     firmados.        los gobiemos
cumplimiento de                                                 locales.
requisitos previos a la
firma del Convenio-
Marco.
Proyectos de           3.100 horas de         Dictado de cursos  Sin riesgos.
fortalecimiento        capacitaci6n           Convenios
institucional formulados  Proyectos de asistencia  firmados
y evaluados.           tecnica                Ejecuci6n de
SPIDES.               Programas/
Estudios realizados.  3 diagn6sticos en 24
meses
Coordinadas las acciones 3 acuerdos o convenios  Acuerdos de    Decisi6n de los
necesarias para la     con provincias y/o     avances y         gobiernos locales.



Page 88
ejecuci6n del programa   municipios y empresas  acuerdos finales.
con distintas instituciones concesionadas en 2 aflos
Prop6sito                    Indicadores
Entes regulatorios con    3 controlando el    Informaci6n de    Decisi6n de los
capacidad para cumplir  cumplimiento de metas  Entes y           Entes - Falta de
su misi6n y funcionando  establecidas.        Auditorias.       informaci6n.
eficientemente.
Componentes
Capacitaci6n.          5.000 hs. de           Certificaci6n de    Decisi6n de los
entrenamiento en 2 afios. cursos.        Entes Reguladores.
Soluci6n de conflictos    3 mediaciones en 2 afios. Informes de  Decisi6n de las
emergentes de la                              mediaci6n.        autoridades locales.
transformaci6n.



Page 89
Annex 1 la: Letter of Development Program
from the Government of Argentina
(Unofficial Translation)
Buenos Aires, April 21, 1999
Mr. Abel Mejia
Lead Specialist
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Latin America and Caribbean Region
The World Bank Group
Re: Water Sector Reform Loan of
US$70 million
We have received a letter of invitation from the World Bank dated March 31, 1999, to negotiate
the Water Sector Reform loan, with a copy of the PAD and the Loan Agreement, which referred
to an APL program of four phases amounting to US$200 million. After an analysis and
discussion among various areas of the Government, the Government requested that the program
to be agreed upon at this time to be for two phases. By doing so, the Government believes that it
can minimize the uncertainty regarding the future variables affecting the program, not only from
the technical and economic point of views but also from the political point of view. The
Government believes that by doing so, it increases the possibility of compliance with the different
scenarios proposed in the program.
During the Negotiation of the loan, the Argentine Government delegation presented such a
position, and it was agreed that the Program would be a two phase APL of US$70 million, to be
implemented in four and a half years. The expected implementation period of each phase is as
follows:
Phase                   Implementation Period
First Phase                                1999-2002
Second Phase                              2002-2004
The triggers agreed upon for the second phase are as follows:
Phase                                   TRIGGERS
Second phase (APL 2)  70% of loan in the first Five  provinces  and Three  provinces and
phase  (APL   1)  is municipalities    with municipalities    with
committed       with sector     regulatory PSP contract signed.
subloan    agreements framework approved.
signed.
The changes that were agreed upon during Negotiations do not in any way change the
objective of the program and the Government's sector policy.
The Annex I presents the program costs of each phase, as agreed as "pipeline" by the
Republic's Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers.



Page 90
ANNEX 1
P0; 0; ;XAr:L[; 0    0  Financing Plan        Estimated Impementation Period
IBRD         Other    Total
Initiation dates  Closing dates
US$      %      US$      US$
million         million   million
First Phase    30.0     64      17.1     47.1      31/07/1999        31/07/2002
APL 1
Second Phase;   40.0     58      29.9     69.9      31/01/2002        31/01/2004
APL 2
Total       70.0      60     47.0    117.0



Page 91
Performance Indicators
Logical Framework of the Project
Narrative Summary              Indicators            Monitoring         Assumptions and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~Risks
Goal
Water supply and sanitation 9 cities with population of  Concession        Policy decisions.
services sufficiently cover   between 50,000 and    contracts.
needs and minimize        500,000 (1.600.000 in     Financial
environmental impact; the  total).                  statements.
services are self-sufficient  3 new companies qualified  Information from
in the long run.          and efficient in 2002.    regulatory agencies.
6 existing companies
reformed.
Objective
Companies participating in  85% of population with    Report on service    Errors in diagnosis.
the program operate       water service.            coverage.            Changes in conditions
efficiently and increase  72% of population with                        foreseen. Political
water and sewerage        sewerage by year 2002.                         change.
coverage.                 3 participating companies  Company balance
are financially self-    sheets.
sufficient by year 2002.
Components
ENOHSA verifies           5 eligible projects in 10    Evaluation reports.  Lack of compliance
eligibility criteria of   months.                                        with eligibility
specific projects.        3 projects evaluated in 10                     criteria.
months.
ENOHSA monitors and       3 projects in 10 months.    Agreements signed.  Coordination with
verifies compliance with                                                local governments.
conditions prior to signing
of framework areements._
Institutional strengthening   3.100 hours of training.    Course outlines.  No risk.
projects elaborated and   Technical assistance      Agreements signed.
evaluated.                SPIDES.                   Project execution.
Studies realized.         3 diagnosis in 24 months.
Coordinated actions for the  3 agreements or contracts  Draft agreement and Local governments'
execution of the program    with provinces or       final agreement.     decisions.
with various institutions.    municipalities or
concession companies in 2
years.
Objective                         Indicators
Regulatory agencies with    3 controlling the       Reports by the       Decision by the
capacity to comply with its  compliance with targets.   regulatory agencies  agencies - lack of
mission and to function                             and auditors.       information.
efficiently.
Components
Training                  5.000 hours of training in 2 Course certification. Decision by the
years.                                        regulatory agencies.
Conflict resolutions arising  3 mediations in 2 years.    Mediation reports    Decision of local
from reform.                                                             authorities.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30198
70°                                                 6'0°                                                 50c
20°                2          BOLIVIA                  !                                                                                          200
PARAGUAY
~       §®an 4lvodor N                                                     B      A       L
QOiuy   )                                                         /         B R A Z I L
F           S-. 5ALTA           ,            \'.formosa/
?) c          -Co   g ;umo        |CHACO6 -"
1 ,    TUCULAMAN          G        Resistencia0 .    Posadas 1       O
!  ,     -T<,>> s*   >>SNantiao del stero e   , _ Corrientes.        r
`9.(D..lCaramarcc        I
L                          '. ESTERO ,                     OX
.       k J    aioOJAV~ ~-~->SANTA
-300   ;       I    . SAN   \            / j                   FE
u   r  JUAN        '              C6rdoba  I          ' ,
(     San Jul                       ,        arano 6
-  , C sQtRDOBAI  Fe  P'aENTRE.
LuiZ~\ s                                                  AY ROS
10Moip&~ buSxtd                 / '.OVeTu°eres       URUGUAY
- )   \ sAN                 1   Z6rateC -
=jLUiS|        f"          Carpona k Buenos Aires
. MENDOZA                               BUENOS
---- \    f Santa Rosa@  A1    R     ES
~~~ i>          '  ~~~~~~~~LA                      a Ol01varria-    '                                   '' ''' "
(~ -   ,   4X       PAM PA                                   i
'   lNEUQUEN; (                                           ..OMar del Plata
Nesqu8§ ,;   t~>,,,I j r.s_ARGENTINA
,INeuque6                      1   ' 
2 /e  RIO    ' %                                                      WATER SECTOR
NEGRO L,             ;REFORM PROGRAM    40
(_S   NEGRO    i Vtedia@-
' ., .^ \ _ ._--                 ~-~ h . PROVINCES WITH PRIVATIZED WATER
-  -<  .,i ¢    Puerto Madryn-'<                                        '            SERVICES IN CAPITAL
-  ..                      ,~~~~~~- Golfo Nve-vo
@Rawson                                       o       PRIVATE WATER UTILITY
- ---  .      CCHUB UT                                                          COOPERATIVE WATER UTILITY PARTICIPATING
IN THE PROGRAM
PUBLIC WATER UTILITY TO BE PREVATIZED
9Comodoro Rivadavio                                             UNDER THE PROGRAM
. -ao                                 SELECTED CITIES
'-  ~~~~ j               O ~~~Puerto Deseado
Puerto , eseaclo                              s      PROVINCE CAPITALS
S 1-. ~ -.  fi +   S A N TA                                            ® @     NATIONAL CAPITAL
- - ,- -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
.i *-4nCRUZ      OPUnhQuilla     E .R                           _         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
50:                                                                                                                                                50o
Rio Gallegos                                                 0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
,, , "   - '   _       A D0.5P'OE C70J\Ac:fU ldl>G A ?Ac -?'9W GN'O5   i
.SiAAf, EXUST6  WAI_    A 35ANTN'4A VAH,'C<fMS
-TtVlSOVEfEIGNTAf 'EV.K CArA"3t             0      100     200      300     400 Miles
This mop was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
Ushu-o>= - -                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
-   , -.+   TIERRA                           on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
DEL FUEGO                              judgment on the legalstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundories.
80'                            70,                            60',                           50'                             40'
MAY 1999



