Report No. PIC5288
Project name                       Argentina-Water Sector Reform (+)
Region                             Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                             Other Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                         ARPE6046
Borrower                           The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency                Subsecretariat of Water Resources
Secretariat of Public Works of the
Ministry of Economy and Public Works
and Services
Hipolito Irigoyen 250, Piso 1, Oficina 1129
Buenos Aires
Republica Argentina
Mr. Jorge Rais, Subsecretario
Phone: 54-1-349 7701
Fax: 54-1-349-7721
Date this PID prepared             April 15, 1997
Project Appraisal Date             May 28, 1997
Project Board Date                 August 1997
Country and Sector Background: According to the 1991 census,
about 72t of the urban population in Argentina was connected to a
water network, and about 38t to a conventional sewerage system,
lower than the average for Latin America. Public management of
water utilities have been plagued by low technical and operational
capacity, overstaffing, commercial and financial inefficiency.
During the 1980s, their capacity deteriorated even faster as
Argentina's external debt problems and hyperinflation led to
sporadic adjustment programs that drastically reduced wage levels,
investment programs, and even maintenance efforts. Employees became
demoralized, and the quality of services was greatly diminished.
All these resulted in slow investment, and created a large
investment backlog in the sector.
In 1990, convinced that the only way to improve public enterprise
performance is to undertake a radical reform, the Argentine
Government launched a massive and ambitious privatization program,
encompassing virtually all public services and federally owned
enterprises, including the water sector. The Bank fully supported
this effort. The ongoing loans shifted their support to preparatory
activities for private sector participation. In the water sector,
public water agencies of the provinces of Corrientes, Santa Fe,
Formosa, Tucuman and Buenos Aires awarded concessions to private
operators. Facing massive investment needs and encouraged by the
success of the concession awards, many other provinces and
municipalities have decided to pursue the privatization strategy
for their water and sewerage systems.
Project Objectives:      The main objective of the project is to
support and consolidate the reform of the water and sanitation



sector in Argentina through increased private sector participation
in investments and management of water utilities.
Project Description:     The project will include two parts: (A) a
private sector participation component to finance up to 509 of the
first five-year investment plan, including: (i) rehabilitation of
pipes, water treatment plants, and connections, and the supply and
installation of water meters; (ii) repair/replacement of pumping
and control equipment; (iii) supply of emergency and maintenance
equipment; and (iv) expansion of water connections in poorer
neighborhoods; and (B) a regulatory and management component to:
(i) support project management; (ii) carry out training of
regulatory agencies; (iii) prepare PSP contracts and regulatory
frameworks; and (iv) create a sector information system.
Project Financing:       The total project cost is estimated to be
US$300 million, of which US$180 million will be financed by IBRD,
US$100 million by the water utilities and US$20 million by the
Government.
Project Implementation: The Republic of Argentina will be the
borrower, and the Subsecretary of Water Resources/ENOHSA the
executing agency. A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established at ENOHSA. The Subsecretary of Water Resources will
provide the policy framework for sector development and overall
guidance to the project. The Government through a private financial
agency, will make subloans to the private operator in the case of
concession, or to the provincial or municipal government in the
case of leasing or management contracts. The PMU at ENOHSA will be
responsible for reviewing compliance of privatization documents
with guidelines prepared by the SSWR, for analyzing specific loan
applications, maintaining and updating the sector information
system, and for hiring a private financial agent to handle loan
administration.
Project Sustainability: The project is fully consistent with the
Government's strategy to improve overall sector efficiency by
transferring water and sanitation services to the private sector.
Sustainability will also be supported by the selection of private
operators through a transparent competition "for" the market, to
reflect the most efficient price to provide water and sanitation
services.
Lessons Learned:         The lessons learned that are reflected in the
project design are: (i) investments under the project will respond
to realistic demand scenarios and will be focused on rehabilitation
of the service capacity of operational infrastructure; (ii)
investments and institution-building of utilities will be
efficiently implemented by private operators selected
competitively; (iii) adequate regulatory frameworks will be
operational before PSP takes place; and, (iv) the financial
administration of the loan will be carried out by a private
financial agency.
Poverty Category:        The project does not have a direct impact on
- 2-



poverty reduction, but it requires specific targets to expand water
services in low income areas..
Environmental Aspects:   This project is classified as category "B".
The project will finance rehabilitation and emergency investments
to rehabilitate the service capacity of existing infrastructure.
The project will define detailed environmental regulations for the
water and sanitation sector to be adopted by utilities.
Program Objectives Categories: The project's aims are to
improve Economic Management and support Private Sector Development.
It will also improve water and sanitation services to low-income
populations in participating utilities by establishing specific
targets to extend services to poor neighborhoods.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 6, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental Assessment
The Water Sector Reform Project has been asigned a B category. The
subprojects financed under the loan are mostly rehabilitation of
water systems and most of the environmental impacts they will have,
should be able to be predicted and subsequently avoided or
mitigated with common practices. All projects will be subject to an
evaluation process, and a methodology to carry out environmental
impact analysis has been incorporated into the evaluation
methodology. The description of the methodology will be included in
the Implementation Manual. A proposal of environmental regulations
for the water and sanitation sector has been developed during
project preparation and they will be included in provincial
regulatory frameworks governing water sector operations and
investments. The proposal and the methodology will be further
reviewed during appraisal and negotiations. Environmental aspects
will be also included in a periodic review of sector compliance to
environmental regulations and in ex-post evaluation of a sample of
subprojects.
-4-



