Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4484-AR
Loan Agreement
(Water Sector Reform Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 7, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4484-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2000, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower letters dated November 16, 
1998 and April 21, 1999, which letters describe the Borrower’s program for reforming 
the water supply sector in Argentina (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms part of 
the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the first phase of the Program, upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:  
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Cooperative" means a water supply and sanitation sector utility 
organized as a sociedad cooperativa (cooperative association) under the Borrower’s Ley 
de Sociedad Cooperativa (Cooperative Association Law; Law No. 20,337 of May 2, 1973), 
which utility satisfies the criteria set forth in Part A.1 (a) through (g) of Schedule 
6 to this Agreement;
(b)
"ENOHSA" means Ente Nacional de Obras Hídricas de Saneamiento, the 
Borrower’s agency responsible for assisting in the financing of water and sanitation 
projects in both urban and rural communities, established by Law No. 24,583 published 
in the Borrower’s Boletín Oficial on November 27, 1995 and possessing its own legal 
personality;
(c)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter, of even date herewith, entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank and setting forth the monitoring indicators for 
the Project;
(d)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(e)
"PMU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(f)
"SRNDS" means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y 
Desarrollo Sustentable (Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development);
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Subborrower" means a Type A Subborrower (as hereinafter defined), a Type 
B Subborrower (as hereinafter defined) or a Cooperative;
(i)
"Subloan" means a loan made by ENOHSA to a Subborrower to provide part of 
the financing required to carry out a Subproject; 
(j)
"Subproject" means a set of investment activities carried out by a 
Subborrower or other water and sanitation sector utility under Part A of the Project;
(k)
"Type A Subborrower" means a water supply and sanitation sector utility 
(other than a Cooperative) which satisfies the criteria set forth in Part A.1 (a) 
through (h) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement and receives a Subloan; and
(l)
"Type B Subborrower" means a water supply and sanitation sector utility 
(other than a Cooperative) which satisfies the criteria set forth in Part A.1 (a) 
through (g) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement and Part A.1 (i) of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement and receives a Subloan.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ENOHSA.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to thirty 
Page  3
million Dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of 
the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  4
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
ENOHSA to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, social and environmental 
practices.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause ENOHSA to issue a manual, amendable from 
time to time and in any case satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth the rules and 
procedures for carrying out the Project.  Said manual shall contain, inter alia, model 
bidding documents for selecting concessionaires eligible to be Type A Subborrowers, 
guidelines for the preparation of concession contracts to be entered into with 
concessionaires eligible to be Type A Subborrowers and guidelines for the 
establishment of:  (a) water and sanitation sector regulatory frameworks and 
environmental standards; and (b) model water and sanitation sector tariff regimes and 
service quality standards.  In case of any conflict between the terms of said manual 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.04. Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall cause a Project management unit to be maintained within ENOHSA.  Such unit shall 
coordinate and monitor project implementation and shall consist of a coordinator and 
seven other professionals hired as consultants and organized as members of three 
functional teams:  a privatization and sector regulation team, a Project 
administration team and a poverty team, all working as part of said unit on a 
full-time basis and assisted as necessary by other consultants employed on a 
short-term or part-time basis.
Section 3.05. Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall cause ENOHSA to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the monitoring indicators set forth 
in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about each April 30 and October 31 falling after six months have 
passed from the Effective Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section (and also 
integrating the information received pursuant to application of the terms of paragraph 
6 (b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement), on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the six months preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank and the Borrower, within a month after each report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section is furnished to the Bank, or at such 
later time as the Bank shall request, the report so furnished, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. (a) Upon receipt by the Borrower of an amount of Loan proceeds 
disbursed by the Bank (other than into the Special Account) for eligible expenditures 
Page  5
under the Project, or upon gathering by ENOHSA of evidence of eligible expenditures 
under the Project sufficient to permit Borrower disbursement of an amount of Loan 
proceeds from the Special Account, the Borrower shall:  (i) transfer such amount of 
Loan proceeds to ENOHSA on a grant basis in Dollars; and (ii) with respect to amounts 
so transferred in connection with Part A of the Project, cause ENOHSA promptly to 
disburse such transferred amount in Dollars as part of Subloans to those Subborrowers 
which incurred said eligible expenditures.
(b)
(i)
A private sector water and sanitation utility concessionaire 
serving the Borrower’s province of Misiones may, if it meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement (other than the criteria specified in Part A.1 (f) 
through (g) of said Schedule), receive Loan proceeds as partial 
reimbursement for carrying out under Part A.2 of the Project a 
Subproject consisting of the expansion of the sewerage network in 
said province’s city of Posadas according to the terms of said 
utility’s concession agreement with the province of Misiones.
(ii)
Paragraph (a) of this Section notwithstanding, upon receipt by the 
Borrower of an amount of Loan proceeds disbursed by the Bank 
(other than into the Special Account) for eligible expenditures 
under the Project with regard to said Posadas sewer expansion, or 
upon gathering by ENOHSA of evidence of eligible expenditures 
under the Project, for said sewerage expansion, sufficient to 
permit Borrower disbursement of an amount of Loan proceeds from 
the Special Account, the Borrower shall:  (A) transfer such amount 
of Loan proceeds to the province of Misiones on a grant basis in 
Dollars; and (B) cause the province of Misiones promptly to 
disburse such transferred amount in Dollars on a grant basis to 
said utility.
(iii)
The Borrower shall ensure that, with respect to said Posadas 
sewerage expansion carried out under the Project:  (A) no 
resettlement of people or relocation of businesses shall be 
required; (B) there is compliance at all
times with the 
applicable environmental standards referred to in Part A.1 
(a) of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement (as well as any environmental 
standards applicable to the project financed in part by Bank 
Loans 
2854-AR and 3520-AR); and (C) if the use of water of rivers or of 
other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or 
are bordered by countries other than Argentina is involved, 
neither the installation nor subsequent operation of the expanded 
sewers shall in any way adversely change the quality or quantity 
of water flowing to or bordering said countries.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause ENOHSA to:  (a) make Subloans solely 
according to the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and 
(b) exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Bank, ENOHSA and the Borrower, ensure compliance with the terms 
of this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) With respect to Part A.3 of the Project, an urban area shall 
be considered poor if at least 30% of the population therein qualifies as poor 
according to the Necesidades Básicas Insatisfechas (Unsatisfied Basic Needs) index 
calculated by the Borrower’s Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censo (National 
Statistics and Census Institute) or other criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ENOHSA to contract the technical assistance and 
training and purchase the goods required for Parts B and C of the Project, and to make 
such technical assistance, training and goods available on a grant basis to the PMU 
and ENOHSA and on a cost-recovery basis by contract with Subborrowers, regulatory 
agencies, SRNDS and provincial or municipal governments as necessary to carry out said 
Parts of the Project.
(c)
With respect to Part C.2 of the Project, no emergency actions specified 
therein may be carried out except as set forth under environmental guidelines and 
procedures determined, prior to the commencement of such actions, to be satisfactory 
to the Bank.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank not later than six months 
prior to the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank, or cause the Bank to be afforded, a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower and ENOHSA on said plan.  
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain, or cause to be 
established and maintained, a financial management system, including records and 
separate accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
Subborrowers and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ENOHSA shall have failed to exercise its right, referred to in Part B, 
paragraph 5 (f) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, to suspend or terminate the right of 
a Subborrower to the use of the proceeds of a Subloan when such exercise is allowed 
under the circumstances referred to in said paragraph.
Page  7
(b)
A province or municipality of the Borrower shall have taken any action, 
or omitted to take any action, thereby affecting materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of a Subproject falling within such province’s 
or municipality’s jurisdiction.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by ENOHSA and is in effect;
(b)
that the PMU shall have been established and is operational with:  (i) 
the coordinator referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and (ii) at least one 
professional, referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, for each of the three 
functional teams referred to in said Section;
(c)
that there be in place, for at least four of the Borrower’s provinces, 
the provincial regulatory and environmental framework and operating regulatory or 
other agency referred to in Part A.1 (a) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement (for purposes 
of this condition, a municipal regulatory and environmental framework and operating 
regulatory or other agency in place, referred to in Part A.1 (a) of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, shall count as one of the four required if the province within which the 
municipality in question is located lacks such framework or agency); and
(d)
that there are water supply and sanitation sector utilities (other than 
Cooperatives), in at least two of the provinces or municipalities used to comply with 
the condition set forth in paragraph (c) of this Section, which utilities meet the 
criteria referred to in either:  (i) Part A.1 (a) through (h) of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; or (ii) Part A.1 (a) through (g) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement and Part 
A.1 (i) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date October 9, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI),
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ José Luis Machinea
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Part
   7,200,000
60%
A.1 of the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts
   2,200,000
52%
A.2 and A.3 of the
Project
(3)
Goods under Part
     200,000
100% of foreign
C.2 of the Project
expenditures and
82% of local
expenditures
(4)
Works under Part
  10,800,000
60%
A.1 of the Project
(5)
Works under Parts A.2
   3,300,000
52%
and A.3 of the Project
(6)
Consultants’ services
   5,200,000
100%
under Part B of the
Project
(7)
Consultants’ services
     800,000
100%
under Part C of the
Project
(8)
Fee
 
     300,000
amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
Page  9
TOTAL               30,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; and (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to 
the date of this Agreement but after June 30, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures under those contracts not covered 
by Section I, Part D.2 (a) and Section II, Part D.2 (a) and (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the reform of the water and 
sanitation sector in Argentina through increased private sector participation in the 
operation and financing of water utilities, to support the establishment of sound 
regulatory frameworks for said sector and to address universal service and 
environmental issues pertaining to said sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
1.
Improvement by Type A Subborrowers of their existing water supply and sanitation 
infrastructure in Argentine medium size cities of between approximately 50,000 and 
500,000 inhabitants through the rehabilitation and replacement of pipes; 
rehabilitation of water treatment plants and intake facilities; upgrading of 
substandard water connections; installation of water meters; repair and replacement of 
pumping control equipment; supply of emergency and maintenance equipment; and carrying 
out of other activities which improve existing water supply and sanitation sector 
physical assets or involve the installation or creation of new physical assets for 
said sector (all except as covered by Part A.3 of the Project).
2.
Improvement by Type B Subborrowers, Cooperatives or other water supply and 
sanitation sector utilities of their existing water supply and sanitation 
infrastructure in Argentine medium size cities of between approximately 50,000 and 
500,000 inhabitants through the rehabilitation and replacement of pipes; 
rehabilitation of water treatment plants and intake facilities; upgrading of 
substandard water connections; installation of water meters; repair and replacement of 
pumping control equipment; supply of emergency and maintenance equipment; and carrying 
out of other activities which improve existing water supply and sanitation sector 
physical assets or involve the installation or creation of new physical assets for 
said sector (all except as covered by Part A.3 of the Project).
3.
Improvement by Subborrowers of their existing water supply and sanitation 
infrastructure serving poor urban areas in Argentina through the rehabilitation and 
replacement of pipes; rehabilitation of water treatment plants and intake facilities; 
upgrading of substandard water connections; installation of water meters; repair and 
replacement of pumping control equipment; supply of emergency and maintenance 
equipment; and carrying out of other activities which improve existing water supply 
and sanitation sector physical assets serving such poor urban areas or involve the 
installation or creation of new water supply and sanitation sector physical assets 
serving said areas.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of technical assistance in support of the operation of the PMU.
2.
Provision of training to:  (a) Subborrower staff to improve their professional 
Page  10
skills and allow certification of their ability to carry out key operational 
functions; and (b) provincial and municipal water and sanitation sector regulatory 
agency personnel to improve their regulatory capacity.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to:  (a) provincial and municipal governments 
to prepare and execute privatizations and regulatory reforms in the water and 
sanitation sector; (b) Subborrowers to support the carrying out of Subprojects under 
Part A.3 of the Project; and (c) SRNDS and ENOHSA to provide federal backstop and 
crisis assistance to Subborrowers and provincial and municipal governments in the 
transition from public to private management of water and sanitation sector utilities.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to ENOHSA to develop and update the 
information systems (known as SPIDES) for the water and sanitation sector and the 
utilities operating therein.
Part C:
Environmental Actions
1.
Provision of technical assistance to SRNDS to update environmental standards 
(such as for sewage and sludge disposal), prepare guidelines for the preparation of 
environmental impact assessments in the water and sanitation sector, perform 
environmental audits of selected investment projects in said sector and prepare a 
water quality management diagnosis for the Salidulce river basin.
2.
Carrying out of emergency actions (such as environmental clean-ups and removal 
of hazardous wastes) and provision of goods to mitigate negative environmental impacts 
that may arise in relation to water and sanitation sector infrastructure.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 2005
through July 15, 2014
1,500,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
Page  11
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Notification and advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost more than $350,000 equivalent each and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more than $5,000,000 each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part 
C.1 (a), standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(b)
Works estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,900,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part 
C.1 (b), standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at 
least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
Page  12
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Procurement by Type A Subborrowers
Notwithstanding any provision of this Section, Type A Subborrowers may procure 
goods and works from eligible sources (required to carry out Subprojects under Part 
A.1 of the Project), using their own procedures pursuant to paragraph 3.13 (a) of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured under Part B of 
this Section; (b) the first two contracts or bid packages for works procured under 
Part C.1 (b) of this Section; and (c) the first two contracts or bid packages for 
goods procured under Part C.1 (a) of this Section.
(b)
Part C.4 of this Section shall not apply unless the Bank shall have 
reviewed the concession contract awarded to the potential Type A Subborrower in 
question and determined that such award was made according to procurement procedures 
acceptable to the Bank as set forth in paragraph 3.13 (a) of the Guidelines. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 (a) of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Page  13
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
awarded pursuant to Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
To award contracts not covered by paragraphs 2 (a) or (b) of this Part, 
prior review and approval by the Bank of short lists (where pertinent) and terms of 
reference shall be required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  14
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 6
Eligibility Criteria for Subborrowers; 
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
Part A:
Eligibility Criteria for Subborrowers
1.
To receive a Subloan, a water supply and sanitation sector utility must satisfy 
the following criteria and any other pertinent criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual:
(a)
it must operate subject to service quality standards and a two-part (one 
part fixed, the other variable) tariff regime, as well as environmental standards and 
a legislatively approved provincial and/or municipal regulatory framework, all of 
which (i) are deemed by the Bank to be consistent with the models and guidelines set 
forth in the Operational Manual and referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and 
(ii) are overseen by an operating regulatory or other agency;
(b)
it must propose to carry out a Subproject or Subprojects, approved by 
ENOHSA, with a financial rate of return of at least 12%, that form part of an at least 
five-year water and sanitation investment plan of the Subborrower;
(c)
it must use meters to gauge water consumption and have a record of 
collecting more than 35% of the charges it has billed customers over the six-month 
period immediately preceding its award of a Subloan;
(d)
it must have a staff consisting of less than six employees per one 
thousand water connections and maintain a level of less than 50% unaccounted water;
(e)
it must have prepared financial projections for its operations, which 
projections demonstrate the feasibility of complying with the conditions set forth in 
Part B.6 (e) of this Schedule;
(f)
it must enter into a written contract with ENOHSA, containing the Subloan 
terms and conditions set forth in Part B of this Schedule;
(g)
(i) the province within which the Subproject will be implemented must 
have entered into a legally binding agreement with the Borrower, which agreement 
allows the Borrower to, on behalf of ENOHSA, use the province’s federal 
co-participation funds (provided pursuant to the Borrower’s law no. 23,548 or such 
other new law or rule as may be applicable in the future) as security for overdue 
utility Subloan interest, principal or other payments; or (ii) there must be in 
existence other legally binding arrangements in favor of the Borrower or ENOHSA 
(approved by the Borrower’s Secretaría de Programación Económica y Regional or its 
successor and the Borrower’s Secretaría de Hacienda or its successor), which 
arrangements guarantee payment of the Subloan interest, principal and other charges 
either by the Subborrower (through, for example, direct application of Subborrower 
accounts receivable) or by the relevant province or municipality;
(h)
in addition to the criteria set forth in paragraphs 1 (a) through (g) of 
this Part A, it must to qualify as a Type A Subborrower:  (i) not be a Cooperative; 
(ii) have formerly been operated by one of the Borrower’s provinces or municipalities; 
(iii) have been privatized by means of a concession agreement which is deemed by the 
Bank to be consistent with the model set forth in the Operational Manual and referred 
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and has been awarded according to procurement 
procedures acceptable to the Bank as set forth in paragraph 3.13 (a) of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(as evidenced by the use of bidding documents deemed by the Bank to be consistent with 
the model set forth in the Operational Manual and referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement); and (iv) is complying with the terms of said concession agreement; and
(i)
in addition to the criteria set forth in paragraphs 1 (a) through (g) of 
this Part A, it must to qualify as a Type B Subborrower:  (i) not be a Cooperative; 
(ii) have formerly been operated by one of the Borrower’s provinces or municipalities; 
and (iii) be operated by the private sector pursuant to contractual arrangements, such 
as other concession, management or lease agreements, which do not satisfy the criteria 
set forth in paragraph (h) (iii) of this Part A.
Part B:
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
Page  16
2.
ENOHSA shall have obtained the Bank’s written prior no-objection for each 
Subloan.
3.
Each Subloan shall:  (a) be denominated in Dollars; (b) bear the same interest 
rate as that of the Loan, plus a maximum of two additional percentage points; (c) be 
subject to the same commitment charges as those applicable to the Loan; and (d) have 
an amortization and grace period equal to the amortization and grace period (if any) 
remaining for the Loan at the time the Subloan is agreed to.
4.
Each Subloan shall be in an amount not to exceed 60% (in the case of a Type A 
Subborrower) or 52% (in the case of a Type B Subborrower or a Cooperative) of the 
estimated cost of carrying out the Subproject or Subprojects in question during the 
first five years of the Subborrower’s water and sanitation investment plan.
5.
Each Subloan shall be made on terms whereby ENOHSA shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Subborrower, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank 
and ENOHSA, including the right to:
(a)
require the Subborrower to carry out and operate the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
technical, social and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate 
records;
(b)
require that:  (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank or ENOHSA shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that:  (i) the Subborrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan to 
the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Subborrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank, ENOHSA or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Subborrower and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Subborrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Subloan, or require accelerated repayment of the Subloan’s outstanding 
principal, if such Subborrower:  (i) fails to perform any of its obligations under its 
contract with ENOHSA; or (ii) no longer meets all the eligibility criteria (set forth 
in Part A of this Schedule) pertaining to such Subborrower.
6.
Each Subloan contract shall also contain provisions whereby:
(a)
the Subborrower agrees to provide the necessary funds to cover the costs 
of the Subproject or Subprojects not covered by the Subloan;
(b)
without limitation to the terms of paragraph 5 (e) of this Part, the 
Subborrower agrees to provide ENOHSA, each March and September during Subproject 
implementation, a summary progress report on the Subborrower’s operational and 
financial performance, as well as on the implementation of the Subproject or 
Subprojects financed by the Subloan, all according to formats and reporting guidelines 
specified in the Operational Manual;
(c)
the Subborrower agrees to maintain records and separate accounts with 
respect to its Subprojects, carry out annual audits of said records and accounts and 
provide ENOHSA with the reports of said audits, all in such manner as to permit 
compliance with the terms of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(d)
the Subborrower agrees to public disclosure, promptly as periodically 
compiled (but in no case less than annually), of the results of its operational and 
financial performance;
Page  17
(e)
the Subborrower agrees to, throughout the term of the Subloan:  (i) 
maintain a current ratio greater than 1.0, increase its debt service coverage ratio to 
at least 1.2 by the fifth year of the Subloan’s term or sooner and reduce its debt to 
equity ratio to at most 1.7 by the fifth year of the Subloan’s term or sooner and at 
most 1.2 by the tenth year of the Subloan’s term or sooner, all calculated in the 
manner set forth in the Operational Manual or otherwise satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) maintain or improve its collection, unaccounted water and staffing levels 
referred to in Part A.1 (c) and (d) of this Schedule;
(f)
the Subborrower agrees to ensure that no resettlement of people or 
relocation of businesses shall be required as a result of the carrying out of the 
Subproject in question, and agrees to comply at all times with the applicable 
environmental standards referred to in Part A.1 (a) of this Schedule;
(g)
in the case of a Subproject which involves the use of water of rivers or 
of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are bordered by 
countries other than Argentina, the Subborrower agrees to ensure that neither the 
implementation nor subsequent operation of the Subproject shall in any way adversely 
change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering said countries; and
(h)
in the case of a Subproject under Part A.3 of the Project, the 
Subborrower agrees to:  (i) charge poor families within poor urban areas no more than 
$50 equivalent for a new water connection, no more than $50 equivalent for a new sewer 
connection, no more than three percent of the family’s monthly income for water 
service per month and no more than five percent of the family’s monthly income for 
combined water and sewer service per month; and (ii) allow poor families within such 
areas to borrow from the Subborrower the amount of said water and sewer new connection 
charges on a one-year term, interest-free basis.
