Page  1
July 7, 2000 
Mr. José Luis Machinea 
Ministro de Economía 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4484-AR (Water Sector Reform Project) Amendment to the 
Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) of even date 
herewith (the Loan Agreement) with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased 
to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the 
subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below.
1.
Section 1.02 (f) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  ""SOP" 
means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Obras Públicas (Public Works Secretariat).
2.
Section 3.06 (a) (i) and (ii) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "(i) onlend such amount of Loan proceeds to ENOHSA on terms identical to 
those of the Loan; (ii) with respect to amounts so onlent in connection with Part A of 
the Project (other than in connection with the Posadas sewerage expansion referred to 
in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section), cause ENOHSA promptly to disburse such amounts 
in Dollars as part of Subloans to those Subborrowers which incurred said eligible 
expenditures; (iii) with respect to amounts so onlent in connection with Part A of the 
Project for said Posadas sewerage expansion, cause ENOHSA promptly to disburse such 
amounts in Dollars on a grant basis to the province of Misiones and further cause 
ENOHSA to ensure that the province of Misiones promptly disburses such amounts in 
Dollars on a grant basis to the utility referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this 
Section.".
3.
Section 3.06 (b) (ii) is hereby deliberately left blank.
4.
Section 3.06 (b) (iii) is hereby amended by replacing the words "The Borrower 
shall ensure that" with the words "The Borrower shall cause ENOHSA to ensure that".
5.
Section 3.08 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the word "SRNDS" with the word 
"SOP".
6.
A new Section 3.10 is hereby added immediately after Section 3.09, to read as 
follows in its entirety:  "For purposes of the onlending of Loan proceeds to ENOHSA 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall enter into a 
subsidiary loan contract with ENOHSA, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the Borrower 
commits to carry out such onlending on terms identical to those of the Loan, and 
ENOHSA commits to repay and service on said terms its debt to the Borrower incurred 
thereby and to use the Loan proceeds so onlent in accordance with the terms of this 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of such subsidiary loan contract.  The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights under such subsidiary loan contract in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan.".
7.
Section 5.01 is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph (c) at the end thereof, 
to read as follows in its entirety:  "ENOHSA or the Borrower shall have failed to 
comply with any of their obligations under the subsidiary loan contract referred to in 
Section 3.10 of this Agreement.".
8.
Section 5.02 is hereby amended by replacing the words "(a) or (b)" with the 
words "(a) or (b) or (c)".
9.
Section 6.01 is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" at the end of 
paragraph (c) thereof, replacing the period at the end of paragraph (d) thereof with 
the word "; and", and adding a new paragraph (e) immediately after paragraph (d) 
thereof, to read as follows in its entirety:  "that the subsidiary loan contract, 
referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement, has been entered into.".
Page  2
10.
Section 6.02 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "The 
following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinions to be furnished to the 
Bank (one from the Borrower and one from ENOHSA), namely that the subsidiary loan 
contract referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and ENOHSA, has been duly executed by them, and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and ENOHSA in accordance with its terms.".
11.
A new Section 6.03 is hereby added immediately after Section 6.02, to read as 
follows in its entirety:  "The date October 9, 2000 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.".
12.
Section 7.01 is hereby amended by deleting the words "and Public Works and 
Services".
13.
Section 7.02 is hereby amended by deleting the words "y Obras y Servicios 
Públicos".
14.
Schedule 2, Part B.3 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the word "SRNDS" with 
the word "SOP".
15.
Schedule 2, Part C.1 is hereby amended by replacing the word "SRNDS" with the 
word "SOP".
16.
Schedule 6, Part A.1 (g) (ii) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "there must be in existence other legally binding arrangements in favor of 
the Borrower or ENOHSA (approved by the Borrower’s Secretaría de Programación 
Económica y Regional or its successor and the Borrower’s Secretaría de Hacienda or its 
successor and the Borrower’s Secretaría de Finanzas or its successor), which 
arrangements guarantee payment of the Subloan interest, principal and other charges 
either by the Subborrower (through, for example, direct application of Subborrower 
accounts receivable) or by the relevant province or municipality;".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
  for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ José Luis Machinea
Date:  July 7, 2000
