Page  1
October 4, 2000
Mr. José Luis Machinea
Ministro de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No.  4484-AR (Water Sector Reform Project) Amendment to the 
Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated July 7, 2000, as amended on 
that same date (the Loan Agreement), with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to 
inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement further as set forth below.
1.
Section 3.06 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “Upon receipt by the 
Borrower of an amount of Loan proceeds disbursed by the Bank (other than into the Special Account) for 
eligible expenditures under the Project, or upon gathering by ENOHSA of evidence of eligible 
expenditures under the Project sufficient to permit Borrower disbursement of an amount of Loan 
proceeds from the Special Account, the Borrower shall:  (i) onlend such amount of Loan proceeds to 
ENOHSA on terms identical to those of the Loan; (ii) with respect to amounts so onlent in connection 
with Part A of the Project (other than in connection with the Posadas water supply and sewerage 
expansion referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section), cause ENOHSA promptly to disburse such 
amounts in Dollars as part of Subloans to those Subborrowers which incurred said eligible expenditures; 
and (iii) with respect to amounts so onlent in connection with Part A of the Project for said Posadas water 
supply and sewerage expansion, cause ENOHSA promptly to disburse such amounts in Dollars on a grant 
basis to the province of Misiones and further cause ENOHSA to ensure that the province of Misiones (in 
compliance by the province with the terms of the concession and supplemental agreements referred to in 
paragraph (b) (i) of this Section) promptly disburses such amounts in Dollars to the utility referred to in 
paragraph (b) (i) of this Section.”.
2.
Section 3.06 (b) (i) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “A private sector water 
and sanitation utility concessionaire serving the Borrower’s province of Misiones may, if it meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement (other than the criteria specified 
in Part A.1 (f) through (g) of said Schedule), receive Loan proceeds as partial reimbursement for carrying 
out under Part A.1 and/or A.3 of the Project a Subproject consisting of the expansion of the water supply 
and sewerage network in said province’s city of Posadas according to the terms of said utility’s 
concession agreement with the province of Misiones (and the terms of any supplemental agreements 
between the province of Misiones and said utility, satisfactory to the Bank, required for purposes of said 
Subproject).”.
Page  2
3.
Section 3.06 (b) (iii) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “The Borrower shall 
cause ENOHSA to ensure that, with respect to said Posadas water supply and sewerage expansion carried 
out under the Project:  (A) no resettlement of people or relocation of businesses shall be required; (B) 
there is compliance at all times with the applicable environmental standards referred to in Part A.1 (a) of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement (as well as any environmental standards applicable to the project financed 
in part by Bank Loans 2854-AR and 3520-AR); and (C) if the use of water of rivers or of other bodies of 
water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are bordered by countries other than Argentina is 
involved, neither the installation nor subsequent operation of the expanded sewers shall in any way 
adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering said countries.”.
4.
A new Section 3.06 (b) (iv) is hereby added, immediately after Section 3.06 (b) (iii), to read as 
follows in its entirety:  “The Borrower shall ensure that the grant to the province of Misiones, referred to 
in Section 3.06 (a) (iii) of this Agreement, shall be made by ENOHSA pursuant to a grant agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, between ENOHSA and the province of Misiones.  Said grant agreement shall, 
apart from obligating the province to require that the terms of Section 3.06 (b) (iii) (A) through (C) of 
this Agreement be complied with, also obligate the province to require that the terms of Schedule 6, Part 
B, paragraphs 2, 3 (a), 4, 5 (a) through (e), 5 (f) (except as relates to accelerated repayment), 6 (a) 
through (e) and 6 (h) of this Agreement be complied with, as if the grant were a Subloan and as if the 
water and sanitation utility concessionaire serving the province of Misiones were a Subborrower.  Said 
grant agreement shall also allow ENOHSA to suspend or terminate disbursements thereunder to the 
province if the province fails to perform any of its obligations under the grant agreement.  Except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not allow ENOHSA to amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of such grant agreement.  The Borrower shall cause ENOHSA to exercise ENOHSA’s rights 
and carry out ENOHSA’s obligations under such grant agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.”.
5.
Section 5.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “
ENOHSA shall have 
failed to: (i) exercise its right, referred to in Part B, paragraph 5 (f) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, to 
suspend or terminate the right of a Subborrower to the use of the proceeds of a Subloan when such 
exercise is allowed under the circumstances referred to in said paragraph; or (ii) exercise its right to 
suspend or terminate disbursements as referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iv) of this Agreement.”.
6.
Section 5.01 is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph (d) at the end thereof, to read as 
follows in its entirety:  “ENOHSA or the province of Misiones shall have failed to comply with any of 
their obligations under the grant agreement referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iv) of this Agreement.”.
7.
Section 5.02 is hereby amended by replacing the words “(a) or (b) or (c)” with the words “(a) or 
(b) or (c) or (d)”.
8.
Section 6.01 (d) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “that there are water supply 
and sanitation sector utilities, in at least two of the provinces or municipalities used to comply with the 
condition set forth in paragraph (c) of this Section, which utilities meet the criteria referred to in either:  
(i) Part A.1 (a) through (h) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; or (ii) Part A.1 (a) through (g) of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement and Part A.1 (i) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; or (iii) Part A.1 (a) through (g) of 
Page  3
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and”.
9.
Schedule 2, Part A, is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “1.
Improvement by 
Type A Subborrowers (and/or by the utility concessionaire referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement) of their existing water supply and sanitation infrastructure in Argentine medium size cities of 
between approximately 50,000 and 500,000 inhabitants through the rehabilitation and replacement of 
pipes; rehabilitation of water treatment plants and intake facilities; upgrading of substandard water 
connections; installation of water meters; repair and replacement of pumping control equipment; supply 
of emergency and maintenance equipment; and carrying out of other activities which improve existing 
water supply and sanitation sector physical assets or involve the installation or creation of new physical 
assets for said sector (all except as covered by Part A.3 of the Project).
2.
Improvement by Type B Subborrowers and/or Cooperatives of their existing water supply and 
sanitation infrastructure in Argentine medium size cities of between approximately 50,000 and 500,000 
inhabitants through the rehabilitation and replacement of pipes; rehabilitation of water treatment plants 
and intake facilities; upgrading of substandard water connections; installation of water meters; repair and 
replacement of pumping control equipment; supply of emergency and maintenance equipment; and 
carrying out of other activities which improve existing water supply and sanitation sector physical assets 
or involve the installation or creation of new physical assets for said sector (all except as covered by Part 
A.3 of the Project).
3.
Improvement by Subborrowers (and/or by the utility concessionaire referred to in Section 3.06 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement) of their existing water supply and sanitation infrastructure serving poor urban 
areas in Argentina through the rehabilitation and replacement of pipes; rehabilitation of water treatment 
plants and intake facilities; upgrading of substandard water connections; installation of water meters; 
repair and replacement of pumping control equipment; supply of emergency and maintenance equipment; 
and carrying out of other activities which improve existing water supply and sanitation sector physical 
assets serving such poor urban areas or involve the installation or creation of new water supply and 
sanitation sector physical assets serving said areas.”.
10.
Schedule 6, Part B.4 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “Each Subloan shall be 
in an amount not to exceed 60% (to the extent it pertains to a Subproject under Part A.1 of the Project) or 
52% (to the extent it pertains to a Subproject under Part A.2 or A.3 of the Project) of the estimated cost 
of carrying out the Subproject or Subprojects in question during the first five years of the Subborrower’s 
water and sanitation investment plan.”.
Page  4
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating this letter in 
the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in two counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt 
by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/Myrna L. Alexander
Director, Country Management Unit
for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By:     /s/José Luis Machinea
Authorized Representative
Date:  November 30, 2000
