Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15741
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1858-GH)
June 17, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency t,Unit =   cedi (C)
UtSS 1  1987  =   160 cedis (SAR)
1988  2- 03 cedis
1 989     270 cedis
1991)  -  326 cedis
]991      367 cedis
1992   -   437 cedis
19)3  =   o5 1 cedis
1 994     964 cedis
'995     1,200 cedis
1996     1,500 cedis
WEIGHTS ANDL MEASURES
1 meter (im)        3. 28 feet (ft)
I hectare (ha)   =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kin) =   0 62 mile (mi)
I metric ton (t)   22,205 pounds (lb)
F'ISC'AL, YEAR
January I - December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT  -- Average Daily Traflic
AftD   - African Deve'opnment Bank
DFR  -- Department of Feeder Roads
DUR  -- Department of Urban Roads
ERP   -- Economic Recovery P'ro;ram
GCAA -- Ghana Civil Aviation Authority
GHA  -- Ghana Highw, ay Authority
GPHA -- Ghana Ports and H]arbors Authority
GRC  -- Ghana Railhay C'orporation
ICB    - Internationial Competitive Bidding
LCB   -- Local Coompetitive BEidding
M'EP -- Ministry ot' Finanice and Economic Planning
MRH  -- Ministry of Roads and Hlighways
MOTC'-- Ministry of'Transport and C'ommunications
NPC   -- National Planning C'ommnission
PIP   -- Public Investnment Prc,,,ranr
PMU  -- Project Managemernt Unit
PPF   -- Project Preparation Flacility
VOC  -- Vehicle Operati.1g CosT
WF' -- World Food Prograrm



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1858-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                          i-iv
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction                                                          I
Project Objectives                                                    1
Achievement of Project Objectives                                    3
Implementation Record and Major Factors affecting the Project        4
Project Sustainability                                               6
Bank Performance                                                     6
Borrower Performance                                                 7
Assessment of Outcome                                                7
Future Operation                                                     8
Key Lessons Learned                                                  8
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments                                  10
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits                       11
Table 3:     Project Timetable                                        13
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  13
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                14
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation                     16
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project                             17
Table 8A:    Project Costs                                            18
Table 8B:    Project Financing                                        18
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits                              19
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement       20
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements           22
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                            22
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                23
APPENDIX
A.    Borrower contribution to the ICR                               24
This docunent has a resiricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oEficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.  I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1858-GH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Rehabilitation
Project (TRP-1) in Ghana, for which Credit 1858-GH in the amount of SDR 46.9 M (US$60.0
million equivalent) was approved on December 10, 1987, and made effective on May 9, 1988.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, 24 months behind the Credit Agreement
schedule. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on April 24, 1996.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Government of Italy; however, most of the
cofinancing noted in the SAR did not materialize.
The ICR was drafted by Harold Young, a consultant, in 1994 and updated by Farida Khan
of the Infrastructure and Urban Development Division (AF4IN), West Central Africa Department,
and reviewed by Mr. James Wright, Division Chief and Mr. Franz Kaps, Project Adviser.
Preparation of this ICR began in April 1995 during the appraisal mission of a proposed Highway
Sector Investment Credit. Since the appraisal mission aide-memoire summarizes the findings as
regards to the project, no specific ICR aide-memoire has been written. The ICR is based on
material provided in the project file and on interviews with project staff.  The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
implementation (Appendix) and by commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1858-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Country Background. Ghana experienced a major economic crisis during the 1970s and
early 1980s. The transport infrastructure faced virtual collapse due to prolonged neglect of
maintenance and rehabilitation. In 1983, Ghana launched a successful Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) emphasizing the restoration of export capacity as part of its basic strategy. Under
the ERP, with considerable support from IDA and other donors, Ghana undertook emergency
repairs and rehabilitation of parts of its transport network, and initiated generally sound pragmatic
institutional reforms. While these measures averted the complete breakdown of the transport
system, by late 1987 much remained to be done to restore its capacity to meet current and future
needs, and to strengthen the management of the transport sector and rebuild its institutions. These
objectives were noted in the SAR as requiring a decade or longer of concerted effort to
accomplish. Government had requested IDA's support in continuing the rehabilitation of the
transport sector; particularly in roads and road transport, railways, and sector management begun
under earlier projects. The Transport Rehabilitation Project, (TRP-1), was prepared during 1986-
87, while a follow-up project, the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project, (TRP-2), had been
identified at that time. It was prepared during the execution of TRP- 1, and was approved by the
Board on December 13, 1990.
Project Objectives
2.    The project complemented and reinforced IDA's ongoing assistance to Ghana in support
of its ERP. The aim of the project was to sustain and help consolidate the momentum of Ghana's
economic recovery by: (a) removing physical bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm
production and labor mobility through better maintenance and further rehabilitation of the
transport infrastructure; (b) raising the efficiency of the transport sector through (i) promotion of
market-oriented policies, (ii) increasing involvement of the private sector, (iii) strengthening
transport institutions, and (iv) improving productivity; (c) facilitating rural transport by promoting
appropriate low-cost technology; and (d) reducing transportation costs for both goods and
passengers. The project formed part of Ghana's 1986-88 investment program and the new 1988-
90 investment program then being prepared. IDA's involvement in the transport and other sectors,
was beginning to pay off in a quickened pace of economic recovery. It followed up earlier credits
dedicated to better maintenance and more efficient management in the crucial transport sector.
IDA's help was needed not only to ensure appropriate policy reform but also to attract potential
cofinancing support for the priority physical investments which still needed to be made under the
Government's transport rehabilitation program.



ii
3.    Project Description. The main thrust of the project was road maintenance and
rehabilitation (73 percent of total project costs) and railway rehabilitation (22 percent), with
associated technical assistance; support for transport sector institutions (3 percent); and pilot
programs in support of small-scale private road transport and low-cost rural transport (2 percent).
The main project components and sub-components are described in Part I.
4.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. The credit agreement included covenants
covering implementation arrangements, cost recovery measures, the timing of fiscal studies and
follow-up actions.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project's objectives were clear and were largely
achieved although with delays because of slow implementation particularly of the bridge program
and the Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC) component. The Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MOTC) and its agencies greatly benefited from the large scale and
comprehensive training of transport staff in roads, railways and civil aviation. The emphasis
placed on developing local consultants and contractors to design, build and maintain lower
standard roads provided additional benefits to local firms, technical staff and workers, as well as
to the state. Rural transport was improved by the development of low-cost technology vehicles
and by the feeder road program. Farmers, including women, also benefited from the project
through better roads and the promotion of non-motorized transport. The project was well
conceived, carefully coordinated, and provided a wide range of assistance to the overall transport
sector. The project objectives are considered sound and reasonable in the light of the country's
background. The project achieved all of its major objectives, and facilitated execution of the
follow-up project. Despite a delay in completion, the project was successful in achieving its
objectives.
Implementation Experience And Results
6.    Assessment of Project's Success in Achieving its Objectives and Sustainability. The
road maintenance and rehabilitation components have substantially improved the condition of
Ghana's trunk road network and are contributing to a reduction of transport costs for both goods
and passenger transport. Besides physical road improvements, a system of cost recovery through
road user charges and a road fund has been established thus contributing to the sustainability of
road maintenance. The railway rehabilitation program, well behind schedule due to cofinancing
problems, has prevented the railway corporation from meeting its traffic targets. The transport
agencies have greatly benefited from large scale comprehensive training. The motor vehicle safety
program has helped reduce Ghana's high accident rate. The implementation of transport study
results have been successful and are contributing to increased overall efficiencies in the transport
sector.
7.    Economic Evaluation. The overall economic rate of return estimated at appraisal was 34
percent, ranging from 25 percent for railways to 47 percent for the road maintenance program.
The weighted average ERR of the sample of roads as given in Table 9 is now estimated at 42
percent as compared to 61 percent at appraisal. No ERR was calculated for the railway
component as it was only recently completed.



iii
8.    Summary of Costs. The latest project cost estimate is about US$200.39 million,
compared to the SAR estimate of US$222.4 million. IDA disbursed US$65.8 million, compared
to US$60.0 million estimated at appraisal; government provided about 78 percent of its estimated
contribution of US$100.5 million (the other 22 percent consisted of taxes for goods which were
cleared tax free), while most of the co-financing did not materialize.
9.    Implementation Timetable. The project was approved by the Board on December 10,
1987, and became effective on May 9, 1988. As the project had been fully prepared by the time
the Credit was signed, no time was lost in starting up work on the various project components.
Later on, the implementation slowed down due to the bridge program and the GRC component.
10.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Achievement of the Major Objectives. The factor
that had the greatest impact on project implementation was the non-availability of cofinancing.
Other factors were long delays in the award of tenders following the receipt of bids because of the
Government's cumbersome review procedures, and its failure to promptly release funds to Ghana
Highway Authority (GHA) and GRC.
11.   Assessment of Performance of the Bank and the Borrower. Overall, the Bank's
performance in preparing and supervising this broad based project was good. The Borrower's
performance was satisfactory.
12.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The outcome was satisfactory for all components,
except a small sub-component of the "Pilot Programs for Road Transport and Low Cost, Rural
Transport" relating to the provision of credit for small contractors.
Summary Of Findings, Future Operations, And Key Lessons Learned
13.   The project was successful because it was well prepared, met the needs of the sector,
included provision for adequate design and supervision of the various components, and the
Borrower mobilized the requisite implementation resources. Lack of cofinancing, and the slow
provision of counterpart funds for road works and the railways caused delays. The project
formed part of an overall rehabilitation program of the transport sector which is being continued
under a follow-up projects. A Credit of US$100.0 million for the Highway Sector Investment
Program was approved on May 14, 1996. This is the first time an integrated sector-wide
investment approach has been adopted for the sustainable development and management of a
sector in Ghana.
14.   Lessons for Future Projects in the Transport Sector
i. Counterpart funding arrangements need to be carefully made and followed up on;
ii. Every effort should be made to complete arrangements for cofinancing before a
lending operation is presented to the Board.
iii. The project was innovative and is a good case of how to design a comprehensive
program to assist weak institutions throughout the transport sector.



iv
iv. Frequent supervision visits by experienced staff contributed substantially to the
successful execution of the project.
v. The Borrower also contributed to the success of the project by placing competent
personnel in charge of its ministries and departments.
vi. The importance of low cost non-motorized transport to the rural poor was
demonstrated by the project which assisted local NGO's in developing, manufacturing
and demonstrating their usefulness to farmers, including women.
vii. Careful planning resulted in the preparation and implementation of a series of related
projects in the transport sector which stimulated the low cost movement of bulk
minerals and agricultural crops. This key step greatly assisted Ghana's ERP.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1858-GH)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Country Background. Ghana experienced a major economic crisis during the 1970s and
early 1980s. The transport infrastructure faced virtual collapse due to prolonged neglect of
maintenance and rehabilitation. In 1983, Ghana launched a successful Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) emphasizing the restoration of export capacity as part of its basic strategy. Under
the ERP, with considerable support from IDA and other donors, Ghana undertook emergency
repairs and rehabilitation of parts of its transport network, and initiated generally sound pragmatic
institutional reforms. While these measures averted the complete breakdown of the transport
system, by late 1987 much remained to be done to restore its capacity to meet current and future
needs, and to strengthen the management of the transport sector and rebuild its institutions.
These objectives were noted in the SAR as requiring a decade or longer of concerted effort to
accomplish. Government had requested IDA's support in continuing the rehabilitation of the
transport sector; particularly in roads and road transport, railways, and sector management begun
under earlier projects. The Transport Rehabilitation Project, (TRP-1), was prepared during 1986-
87, while a follow-up project, the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project, (TRP-2), had been
identified at that time. It was prepared during the execution of TRP- 1, and was approved by the
Board on December 13, 1990.
2.    Project Preparation. The TRP-1 project was prepared with funding from the previous
road project (Cr. 1601-GH), the previous railway project (Cr. 1 170-GH), and a PPF for US$14
million. The funds were used for a wide range of studies and to prepare designs and bid
documents, which greatly expedited preparation of this multi-component project. IDA followed
up project preparation closely with frequent missions by Bank staff fully familiar with local
conditions and previous road, port and rail projects. The result was that the project, covering the
whole transport sector with the exception of the ports, which were fully rehabilitated under an
earlier project, was thoroughly prepared and presented to the Board in less than two years
following its identification.
H.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The project complemented and reinforced IDA's ongoing assistance to Ghana in support
of its ERP. The aim of the project was to sustain and help consolidate the momentum of Ghana's
economic recovery by: (a) removing physical bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm
production and labor mobility through better maintenance and further rehabilitation of the
transport infrastructure; (b) raising the efficiency of the transport sector through (i) promotion of
market-oriented policies, (ii) increasing involvement of the private sector, (iii) strengthening
transport institutions, and (iv) improving productivity; (c) facilitating rural transport by promoting



2
appropriate low-cost technology; and (d) reducing transportation costs for both goods and
passengers. The project formed part of Ghana's 1986-88 investment program and the new 1988-
90 investment program then being prepared. IDA's involvement in the transport and other sectors,
was beginning to pay off in a quickened pace of economic recovery. It followed up earlier credits
dedicated to better maintenance and more efficient management in the crucial transport sector.
IDA's help was needed not only to ensure appropriate policy reform but also to attract potential
co-financing support for the priority physical investments which still needed to be made under the
Government's transport rehabilitation program.
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project's objectives were clear and were largely
achieved, though with delays on the bridge program and the Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC)
component. The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) and its agencies greatly
benefited from the large scale and comprehensive training of transport staff in roads, railways and
civil aviation. The emphasis placed on developing local consultants and contractors to design,
build and maintain roads provided additional benefits to local firms, technical staff and workers, as
well as to the state. Rural transport was improved by the development of sturdy bicycle trailers
and by the feeder road program. Farmers, including women, also benefited from the project
through better roads and the promotion of non-motorized transport. The project was well
conceived, carefully coordinated, and provided a wide range of assistance to the overall transport
sector. Despite some delay in completion, the project was successful in achieving its objectives.
5.    Project Description: The main thrust of the project was road maintenance and
rehabilitation (73% of total project costs) and railway rehabilitation (22%), with associated
technical assistance; support for transport sector institutions (3%); and pilot programs in support
of small-scale private road transport and low-cost rural transport (2%). The main project
components and sub-components are described below.
(a) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
i. a two-year (1988-89) time-slice of Ghana Highway Authority's (GHA) and
Department of Feeder Road's (DFR's) road maintenance programs, including clearance
of maintenance backlogs;
ii. technical assistance for project supervision and management strengthening at Ministry
of Roads and Highways (MRH), GHA and DFR;
iii. rehabilitation of about 512 km of the Kumasi-Paga Road; and
iv. a bridge rehabilitation program.
(b) Railway Rehabilitation Program
i. Rehabilitation of the Eastern and Central lines (256 km and 183 km respectively) of
the GRC and provision of essential rolling stock and other inputs to increase overall
capacity; and
ii. technical assistance for management support and training.



3
(c) Support for Transport Sector Institutions
i. strengthening MOTC organization including policy studies and institutional reforms;
ii. management support to Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA),
iii. improvement of road safety and traffic management,
iv. training programs for road transport and GCAA;
(d) Pilot Programs for Road Transport and Rural Transport
i. A credit facility and technical assistance for small vehicle workshops, spare parts
reclamation, a freight terminal, and for the commercial production of low cost non-
motorized vehicles; and
ii. assistance to develop and promote low cost non-motorized vehicles suitable for use in
rural areas and small towns.
(e) Support for Infrastructure Planning
i. Support for infrastructure planning to be under-taken by the National Planning
Commission (NPC).
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    Overall the project was successful, in particular, components related to strengthening
transport sector institutions, pilot programs supporting private road transport and training both
locally and abroad. Evaluation of the project as a whole is reflected in Table 1 of Part II.
Achievements were substantial for sector policies and institutional development. Financial and
physical objectives were only partially achieved because the expected cofinancing did not
materialize and there were delays in counterpart funding. Components funded from the IDA
credit were successfully completed.
7.    Sector Policy Objectives. The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation operations have
substantially improved the condition of Ghana's trunk road network and are contributing to a
reduction of transport costs for both goods and passenger transport. Besides physical road
improvements, a system of cost recovery through road user charges and a road fund has been
established thus contributing to the sustainability of road maintenance. The implementation of
transport study results has been very successful and is contributing to increased efficiencies in the
overall transport sector. The motor vehicle safety program helped reduce Ghana's high accident
rate.
8.    Institutional Development Objectives: The MOTC and M]RH and their agencies (DFR,
GHA, GRC and GCAA) greatly benefited from large scale comprehensive training, (both in and
outside the country) of staff in roads, railways and civil aviation.



4
IV. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
9.    The project was approved by the Board on December 10, 1987 and became effective on
May 9, 1988. As the project had been fully prepared by the time the Credit was signed, no time
was lost in starting up work on the various project components. The credit agreement included a
number of covenants covering implementation arrangements, the timing of fiscal studies and
follow-up actions. Progress in implementing the project was satisfactory overall. There were
however some problems. Delays arose on the GRC component because the expected cofinancing
did not materialize and road and bridge rehabilitation were slowed down because budget releases
from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) were not on time.
10.   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation: The implementation of this component was
satisfactory. Some 330 km of trunk roads have been rehabilitated and 1,200 km of trunk roads
have undergone periodic maintenance.
11.   Railway Rehabilitation Program: The rehabilitation of the Eastern and Central lines was
behind schedule because of low locomotive availability for hauling materials to the work site and
insufficient release of funds by the Government. Lack of cofinancing adversely affected the
performance of GRC as cofinancing was to be used for the purchase of new locomotives to
bolster GRC's hauling capacity. This delayed the reconstruction of the Eastern and Central lines,
and prevented GRC from handling all the freight traffic offered as well as potential passenger
traffic. This, in turn, prevented GRC from meeting its operating performance goals set in the
Project Agreement, and later in the Performance Agreement it signed with the Government. It
was not until 1993 that GRC received four locomotives provided by France. These locomotives
enabled GRC to greatly improve its performance. Finally in 1995, the Japanese Government
provided 14 locomotives jointly cofinanced under TRP-1 and TRP-2.
12.   Support for Transport Sector Institutions: The MOTC and MRH and their agencies
(DFR, GHA, GRC and GCAA) greatly benefited from large scale comprehensive training (both in
and outside the country) of staff in roads, railways and civil aviation.
13.   Pilot Programs for Road Transport and Rural Transport: The implementation record of
this component was mixed. The "Line of Credit" facility did not work out on account of poor
recovery of interest from beneficiaries under the "Tools and Equipment" subcomponent and other
subcomponents not taking off. The amount under this component was reallocated to GRC. Low
cost transport technology for non-motorized transport was developed and introduced in selected
rural communities, in the north of Ghana.
14.   Support for Infrastructure Planning: Initially this component moved very slowly due to
delays in fully formalizing National Planning Commission's (NPC) operations, and in appointing
key officials. The two specialists provided under technical assistance performed well and NPC
has prepared a national development and implementation plan. Overall the implementation was
satisfactory.



5
15.   Economic Evaluation. Road Maintenance Program: The actual economic rate of return
(ERR) and the net present value (NPV) are based on HDM-III (see Table 9). Where data for
HDM input was not available in the Consultant's Reports, the data from GHA was used.
Roughness values were estimated for some Gravel Roads where Post Construction Studies were
done long after their construction. The present value of actual project costs is approximately 29
percent higher than expected at appraisal. Further deterioration of the roads between the time of
appraisal and the time of execution of works on certain roads, led to a substantial change in the
scope of works in order to restore the roads to an acceptable standard. This led to a related
substantial change in costs and lower ERRs after completion. This is particularly marked where
the initial average daily traffic (ADT) is low, indicating the need for a more careful assessment of
investments under these conditions. The weighted average ERR of the sample of roads as given
in Table 9 is now estimated at 42 percent as compared to 61 percent at appraisal. The NPV--
computed with a discount rate of 15 percent--is now 2,731.0 million cedis (4,188.9 million cedis
estimated). Railway Rehabilitation Program: No ERR has been calculated as this component was
not completed until recently.
Analysis of major factors that affected project implementation
16.   Factors Generally beyond Government Control. The factor that had the greatest
impact on project implementation was the non-availability of cofinancing. Lack of the cofinancing
anticipated at the time of board presentation of the project was a handicap throughout the period
of execution of the project. As a result, GHA was forced to slow down its program of works.
Lack of cofinancing also adversely affected the performance of GRC as cofinancing was to be
used for the purchase of new locomotives to bolster GRC's hauling capacity. Over time, GRC's
traction capacity gradually diminished with the wear on old equipment. This delayed the
reconstruction of the Eastern and Central lines, and prevented GRC from handling all the freight
traffic offered as well as potential passenger traffic. This in turn, prevented GRC from meeting its
operating performance goals set in the Project Agreement, and later in the Performance
Agreement it signed with the Government. It was not until 1993 that GRC received new
locomotives.
17.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Other factors were long delays in
the award of tenders following the receipt of bids because of the Government's cumbersome
review procedures, and its failure to promptly release funds to GHA and GRC. The delays in
awards frequently led to increased cost because bidders often refused to extend the validity date
of their bids which expired because of the prolonged time taken to approve contract awards by
the different levels of the Government. Also, roads deteriorated further while awaiting repairs.
For GRC the problem was two fold: (a) the slow release of foreign exchange to enable it to
purchase spare parts and equipment abroad, and (b) the inadequacy of local funding for capital
expenditure. These problems continued throughout the life of the project, and the Government
made little or no progress in improving its performance despite continual reminders by Bank
missions and telexes from headquarters. As a result, the project was not completed until
December 1995, 24 months beyond the completion date of December 31, 1993. The closing date
had to be extended by 24 months to December 31, 1995.



6
18.   Disbursements ran substantially behind the appraisal estimate as shown in Table 4. While
delays in contract awards and in the release of local funds contributed to slow disbursements, the
decision to reduce disbursement percentages on the roads component because of lack of
cofinancing, also contributed to the lower than forecasted disbursement rate.
V.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.   The project enhanced Ghana's ability to rehabilitate and maintain its transport
infrastructure. Introduction of a system of cost recovery through road user charges and the
establishment of a road fund financed, through a levy on fuel, vehicle tolls and license fees is a
major step towards providing an assured source of funding for road maintenance thus contributing
to the sustainability of road maintenance. The implementation of transport study results has been
very successful and is contributing to increased efficiencies in the overall transport sector. The
motor vehicle safety program helped reduce Ghana's high accident rate and IDA is continuing to
support safety programs under ongoing projects. The MOTC and MIRH and their agencies (DFR,
GHA, GRC and GCAA) greatly benefited from large scale comprehensive training, (both in and
outside the country) of staff in roads, railways and civil aviation resulting in increased institutional
capacity to develop and implement policy reforms.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
20.   Overall, the Bank's performance in preparing and supervising this broad based project was
good. The project was thoroughly prepared, which enabled its execution to get underway
immediately after the credit was signed.
21.   Every facet of transport was assisted by an extensive training program covering the needs
of the various transport agencies of the Government. Public and private sector transport
operators assisted through the provision of spare parts, the development of local workshops and
garages, the training of mechanics and the implementation of a road safety program. In addition,
domestic banking was strengthened to provide assistance to private sector workshops, mechanics
and those involved in developing intermediate forms of transport. The project was innovative and
is a good example of how to design a comprehensive program to assist institutions in all parts of
the transport sector. The many appreciative letters in the correspondence files from Ghanaians
who were trained abroad testify to the usefulness and pertinence of the training programs.
22.   The Bank could have done more to ensure that cofinancing would be available by the time
the credit was signed. The lack of cofinancing had serious consequences for GHA and GRC,
greatly slowing the execution of their components. During a visit by a Bank mission to the African
Development Bank (AfDB), about the time the project was presented, AfDB expressed surprise
that it had not been approached earlier for cofinancing. There is no correspondence in the files
indicating that efforts were made to encourage participation of Italy, CIDA and the Japanese
despite their inclusion in the list of expected co-financiers to provide US$100.5 million (para 3.24
of the SAR). Support was eventually obtained from Italy, France and Japan.



7
23.   Supervision visits were frequent, and aide memoires extensively recorded the discussions
and agreements reached at the final meetings of missions with transport officials. The Bank was
helpful in considering changes to expedite the project, firm in requiring that its procurement rules
be adhered to, but willing to compromise to help resolve particular problems raised by the
Borrower. Undoubtedly, a contributing factor to the success of the Bank's supervision was the
skill, long previous experience in Ghana, and familiarity of its staff with the transport sector and
the many agencies involved as well as their management. The only caveat regarding supervision
was the generally high rating given for "availability of funds" which should have been rated lower,
thus calling attention to the need for more forceful action on the part of the Bank.
24.   The Bank also performed well in insuring the continued provision of food aid under the
World Food Program (WFP) for workers and staff of MRH, GHA and DFR. Food aid had been
initiated under earlier transport projects and provided an effective wage supplement and incentive
to increased productivity.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   Officials heading up the various transport agencies of the Borrower were cooperative with
the Bank, and ably performed their duties. There was little in the way of procurement problems,
other than the protracted clearance times by Government, and those that arose were promptly
handled to the satisfaction of the Bank. Government officials kept the Bank closely informed on
progress, and delivered satisfactory audit reports on the various accounts opened under the
project, and on GRC. Government's failure to promptly make counterpart funds and foreign
exchange available, as it was committed to do under the Credit Agreement, caused delays,
particularly to the GRC component, throughout the execution period.
26.   The shortfall in cofinancing exacerbated the situation as Government had to attempt to
find the equivalent funding elsewhere. As noted previously, it would have greatly facilitated
execution, if the Bank and the Government had insured the availability of cofinancing by the time
the credit was signed.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   The project's major objectives were achieved and the outcome is judged satisfactory.
TRP-1 originally focused on the first two-year slice (1988-89) of the program, which effectively
was completed over 1988-91, due to a delayed start, procurement and construction time-lags, and
the unavailability of US$20 million in anticipated cofinancing, which had to be made up with local
financing over a longer period. While development of the ICB process, including preparation of
standard bid documents and Government's approval of the ICB awards, took longer than
expected, it was successfully launched. Engineering studies, specifications and tender documents
for some 1,300 km of periodic road maintenance works which are being implemented under the
follow-up project, TRP-2, were prepared. This advanced preparation and the finalization of
standard bidding documents under TRP- 1 enabled TRP-2 to be implemented quickly, avoiding
delays encountered under TRP- 1. During negotiations of TRP-2, the Government agreed to
streamline its procurement clearance process for award of future contracts, which further
expedited TRP-2's implementation.



8
28.   A shortage of funding was the main bottleneck in implementing the road stabilization
program. As institutional constraints were largely resolved, and contractor capacity was available,
funding remained the main problem. The magnitude of financing needed was indeed large, and
was apparently beyond Ghana's capability to meet (para 3.21). The Government made some
progress in increasing the level of road user charges under TRP- 1 and agreed under TRP-2 to
progressively increase the cost recovery from road users.
29.   The Government made substantial efforts to tackle the problems of road transport through
appropriate policy changes, which emphasized competition and free market operation of the
transport system, and through investment support, where essential. The main sector problems
were identified during the preparation of TRP-1 and these were addressed under the project.
IX. FUTURE OPERATION
30.   To provide sector planning support for Ghana's transport sector institutions, the
Government is implementing a phased program of technical assistance and other support to
strengthen planning units in MOTC, MIRH, GHA and DFR. A Transport Sector Strategy Note
(TSSN, Report No. 5737-GH, June 1985) prepared by the Bank and agreed with the Government
in mid-1985, focused on the main transport problems and policy issues, and presented a short and
medium term strategy for tackling them. Further Government/Bank joint reviews undertaken in
1989, 1992 and 1994, recommended that the process of reducing the backlog of maintenance
should be continued, while concurrently maintaining roads that have been restored to "good"
condition and implementing policies and institutional reforms to make the delivery of transport
services more sustainable and responsive to users' needs. Following this, a Credit of US$100.0
million for the Highway Sector Investment Program was approved on May 14, 1996. This is the
first time an integrated sector-wide investment approach has been adopted for the sustainable
development and management of a sector in Ghana. IDA' s credit, together with pledges from
other donors, would support implementation of the 1996-2000 Road Sector Expenditure Program
jointly developed by the Government, user groups, the Parliamentary sub-committee for
infrastructure, and all donors active in the sector. The developmental goal is to support
Government in reducing poverty through increased growth, largely in the agricultural sector and
by improving access to social services and markets, particularly for rural areas. The program will
seek to achieve this by: (a) reducing vehicle operating costs through maintenance, rehabilitation
and reconstruction of the highest priority sections of the road network; and (b) ensuring the
improvements are sustained by developing and implementing cost recovery policies, building and
utilizing indigenous capacity in the public and private sectors, and improving financial
management and control. Related Bank Loans/Credits are listed in Table 2.
X.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.   The project was successful because it was well prepared, met the needs of the sector,
included provision for adequate design and supervision of the various components, and the
Borrower mobilized the requisite implementation resources. Lack of cofinancing, and the slow
provision of counterpart funds for road works and the railways caused delays. The project
formed part of an overall rehabilitation program of the transport sector which is being continued
under a follow-up projects.



9
32.   Lessons for Future Projects in the Transport Sector. The following lessons, some of
which could also apply to many other projects or have even become standard requirements on
more recent projects, can be learned from the implementation of the Transport Rehabilitation
Project:
i.    Counterpart funding arrangements need to be carefully made and followed up on;
ii.    Every effort should be made to complete arrangements for cofinancing before a
lending operation is presented to the Board.
iii.   The project was innovative and is a good case of how to design a comprehensive
program to assist weak institutions throughout the transport sector.
iv.    Frequent supervision visits by experienced staff contributed substantially to the
successful execution of the project.
v.    The Borrower also contributed to the success of the project by placing competent
personnel in charge of its ministries and departments.
vi.    The importance of low cost non-motorized transport to the rural poor was
demonstrated by the project which assisted local NGO's in developing,
manufacturing and demonstrating their usefulness to farmers, including women.
vii.   Careful planning resulted in the preparation and implementation of a series of
related projects in the transport sector which stimulated the low cost movement of
bulk minerals and agricultural crops. This key step greatly assisted Ghana's ERP.



10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                        i              Li               Li              L
Sector policies                                     FLi 0                             Li
Financial objectives                Li               L               Li                L
Institutional development                            Li              Li               Li
Physical objectives                 Li               rl              L                Li
Poverty reduction                   Li               Li              Li               L
Gender issues                        C               Li              Li                Li
Other social objectives              Ci             EL                                 Li
Environmental objectives            Li               Li              Li               L
Public sector management            L                L               L                [
Private sector management          [                 L                C                Li
Other (specify)                     L               Li               L                 0
B.  Proiect sustainability              Likelv         Unlikely        Uncertain
I ,-'           (\ )            1 I
Highly
C.  Bank performance                 satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                      Fi              fl 
Preparation assistance                                 i 0Li
Appraisal                           EL °i
Supervision                                          L                L
Higahly
D.  Borrower performance             satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                         L               C                L
Implementation                      Li                               Li
Covenant compliance                  v              Li               L
Operation (if applicable)           L               L                Li
Highly                                           Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome            satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
(yl)            (.yl           K(l/I
7 I                             L                O



11
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                    Year of   Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Highway Engineering Credit                   N/A                         1970   Completed
2. First Highway Project     Rehabilitation of 345 miles of trunk roads     1974   Completed
3. Second Highway Project    Institution building of GHA and encourage      1976   Completed
development of a domestic construction industry.
4. Third Highway (Emergency  To relieve, on an emergency basis, the most    1980   Completed
Maintenance) Project      pressing constraints affecting road maintenance
trucking operations. Importation of urgently
needed spare parts, equipment, tools, tires,
bitumen and lubricants.
5. Railway Rehabilitation    To improve managerial efficiency by instituting  1981   Completed
Project                    modern methods of operations, maintenance
and financial management; and to provide
improved equipment to enable GRC to function
as viable transport enterprise.
6. Road Rehabilitation and   Strengthen road agencies, revitalize road      1985   Completed
Maintenance Project        maintenance, and upgrade transport planning
and coordination.
7. Port Rehabilitation Project   Rehabilitation of Tema and Takoradi Port   1986   Completed
facilities; and to help strengthen and reorganize
port management and port institutions in Ghana.
Following operations
1. Second Transport         Removing physical bottlenecks to the expansion  1991   On-going
Rehabilitation Project    of exports, farm production and labor mobility;
improve maintenance and rehabilitation of the
road and railway infrastructure; improving the
efficiency of public & sector transport manage-
ment, institutional development, and training;
facilitating rural transport; poverty alleviation in
rural areas; and reducing transport costs.
2. National Feeder Roads    Implementing a sustainable feeder road          1992   On-going
Rehabilitation &          maintenance performance and budget system;
Maintenance Project       reduce rural poverty; and improve DFR's
planning, programming, budgeting and
management systems.
3. Urban Transport Project   Road rehabilitation; traffic management        1993   On-going
improvements; rehabilitation of lorry parks and
bus terminals; non-motorized transport facilities;
and institutional strengthening of central and
local government agencies.



12
Loan/credit title                            Purpose                       Year of    Status
approval
4. Highway Sector              Reduce vehicle operating cost through main-         1996L  Board
Investment Program          tenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of
the highest priority sections of the road network;
developing and implementing cost recovery
policies; building and utilizing indigenous
capacity in the public and private sectors; and
improving financial management and control.
Thus supporting Government in reducing poverty
and improving access to social services
and markets.
4. Intermodal                   To provide transport services to satisfyr effective  1998L  IEPS
Transport Project            demand in traditional and newly productive
areas; provide greater access to social and
communitv services in remote areas; achieve
greater utilization of existing under-utilized
capacity; remove obstacles to development of
integrated modal transport; and improvc
efficiency and price competition.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle            Date Planned   latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            Sep-86
Preparation                                                           Mar-86
Pre-appraisal                                        Nov-86          Nov-86
Appraisal                                            Feb-87           Apr-87
Negotiations                                          Oct-87          Oct-87
Board presentation                                   Nov-87        10-Dec-87
Signing                                              Feb-88        18-Feb-88
Effectiveness                                      9-May-88         9-May-88
Project completion                                31-Dec-93         30-Jun-95
Credit closing                                     30-Jun-94       31-Dec-95
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
Appraisal Estimate        3.87  27.87 48.60  54.82  58.04  59.65  60.00      0.00   0.00
Actual                    2.80   6.72 10.80  23.50  30.93  44.85  52.94  58.75    65.8
Actual as % of Estimate    72.4%  24.1% 22.2%  42.9%  53.3%  75.2%  88.2%  97.9%  109.7%
Date of Final Disbursement: April 24, 1995



14
'fable 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Ktey implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report                    Estimated              Actual
GHA
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
- Periodic maintenance Phase I                Dec-88                Jul-90
- periodic maintenance Phase II               Dec-89               Feb-94 ^
Supervision of Mtce & Instit. Bldg. Phase III                       Dec-92
- PNIMU                                       Dec-90               Sep-91
- Supervision (GHA, DFR)                      Jun-90
TA for Institution Strengthening               Dec-91
Kumasi-Bolgatanga Road Engineering Study       Dec-92               Jun-90
Bridge R. ,'ahilitaticn                        Jan-90                Jun-95
- S'.i ,CvIsIoi-                              Dec-90         Transferred to TRP2
f'or fiiumre projects                   Dec-89         Absorbed into Spn &
TA for MRH Program
to NPC                                  Dec-91               Jun-95
GRC
Railway Rehabilitation Program
Track Works
- Complete Track Renewal -- Eastern Line  Dec-91 (60 km)       Dec-93 (59.6 km)
- Through Sleeper Renewal -- Eastern Line    Jun-91 (196 km)   Dec-95 (208 km)
- Complete Track Renewal -- Central Line  Dec-91 (52 km)              --
- Through Sleeper Renewal --Central Line  Jun-91 (131 km)     Dec-95 (181.6 km)
Renewal of turnouts on Eastern Line        Dec-91 (20 No.)      Dec-95 (20 No.)
Renewal of turnouts on Central Line        Dec-91 (20 No.)      Dec-95 (20 No.)
Replacement o Signaling and Telecommuni-
cation on Eastern Line                       Jun-90               Jun-95
Replacement o Signaling and Telecommuni-
cation on Central Line                       Jun-90               Dec-95
Supply of mainline locomotives                Jun-89 (3)
Supply of wagons                             Jun-89 (40)
Modernization and repair of wagons includ.
procurement of spare parts                   Jun-91
Workshop modernization                          Jun-91               Oct-94
Technical Assistance                           Dec-91               Mar-94
Training of GRC staff                          Dec-91               Dec-91
Rehabilitation and overhaul of locomotives
includ procurement of spare parts            Jun-91
Procurement of track items                      Jun-91               Jun-95



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Contd...)
I. Key implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report                     Estimated              Actual
MOTC
MOTC Components
MOTC Sector Studies                                8                    12
Training
- Managers/Administration/Accountants           1,000                 1,000
- Mechanics                                     2,000                2,000
- Drivers                                        900                 2,316
- MOTC Planning Dept.                            15                    16
- GCAA                                           12                    20
Road Safety
- Construction & equipping VELD         Accra, Takoradi, Wa   Accra, Takoradi, Wa
Stations                              Bolgatanga, Ho,       Bolgatanga, Ho,
Sunyani & Cape Coast Sunyani & Cape Coast
- Establishment of Accident data        At BRRI Kumasi       Established at BRRI
collection & Analysis System                                Kumasi
* Equipping & Training Traffic Police   Equipping Accra and   Units at Accra and
Kumasi units.        Kumasi equipped and
Establish training   training facilities
facilities at Accra  established at Police
Training Center.
a Because of additional works included in the contract.



16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
1. Key operating indicators in               Estimated          Actual
SAR/President's Report                      in SAR
A. Financial & Operational Targets for GRC
Staff at the end of Calendar year              6,250            4,538
Accounts Receivables                            10%             9.5%
Mainline Locomotive Availability
(a) More than 10 years old                     64%            0.45 a/
(b) Less than 10 years old                     74%              70%
Mainline Locomotives Kms/day                    275              242
Wagon Availability
(a) More than 20 years                         62%              78%
(b) Less than 20 years                         84%           (Combined)
B. Traffic Targets
Total Ton Kms. (million)                        252
Actual - 162      125.67 b/
Passenger Kms. (million)                        540
Actual - 238      213.55 b/
a/ Availability of locos of more than 10 years old is on a downward trend. These locos
comprising 1851, 1401, 751 Class are expected to be scrapped soon.
b/ The shortfall in Tkms and Pkms is mainly due to adverse trends in the market for
Bauxite and Manganese traffic as well as shortage of mainline locomotives and
the delay in completion of Eastern and Central line projects.



17
Table 7:       Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as defined
Study                 at appraisal/redefined           Status              Impact of study
I Road Transport Sector To assess the performance and      Completed    Led to preparation of TRPI
Study               development of the road transport sector
2 Bus Company          Reorganization of State owned bus   Completed    Private participation in State owned
Restructuring       companies                                         companies under active consideration
3 0 and M Study        Reorganization of MOTC              Completed    Report recommendations implementcd
within the overall framework of Cix l,
Service
4 Accra Urban          To assess the optimal mode of Transport Completed    Led to Government support to bigger
Transport Options                                                     buses in public transport
Study
5 Road Safety          To lower the high accident rate in  Completed    Establishment of National Road Safety
Improvement         Ghana                                             Committee, Accident data collection and
analyses system and improvemcnt of
Black Spots.
6 Data Processing Study Study of Data Processing Systems in    Closed at  Closed due to proposed reorganization of
State owned Parastatals of OSA. STC,  Phase I    parastatals.
CES and GCAA
7 Commodity Transport To assess element of Cost of Transport  Completed    Helped in deregulation of Tariffs
Cost Study          on various commodities              Data available
8 Motor Trading Firm   To assess availability of spares for motor Completed    Data indicated that there are no
Survey              vehicles                            Data available bottlenecks in spares availabilitv.
9 Road Transport Tariff To study pattern and extent of tariff    Full data  Led to deregulation of Tariffs.
Study               charges by Transport operators.     collected
10 BSL Financial       Review financial system of BSL and    Completed    Led to reorganization of BSL
Information Study    suggest improvement.
11 Socio-economic      To determine the returns on feeder roads Completed    Determined the impact on Labor based
Evaluation for DFR                                                    contract in the region
12 Western Line        To identify' how Western Line can be    Transfered to  Findings to be discussed at July 1996
Development Plan for improved and developed             TRP2.         Workshop
GRC                                                     Completed
13 Transport Policy and  To suggest policy and strategies to  Completed    Led to further studies to Urban Transport
Strategy Study      improve transport system                          and ultimately UTP and also helped in
development of various modes including
launching of Multi-modal study.
14 Trailing loads and    To examine means to increase trailing   Completed    Trailing loads increased from 1,200 to
speeds for GRC      loads and speeds on Western Line                  1,300 tonnes.
15 Study on Intermediate To assess the scope for manufacture and Completed    Proto-type successful and sustained.
Means of Transport  use of Bicycle transport in rural areas
16 Spare Parts Manage-  Identification of spare parts required,   Completed    Minimum impact as the recommendation
ment System for GRC procurement policy, categorization of             regarding computerization of spare parts
vital and essential items and prepara             management has not yet been
tion of stores budget                            implemented.
17 Quality Assurance    Augmentation of testing and inspection  Completed    Improvement in failure rate of
Systems in          facilities, training of staff and                 locomotives, wagon and locomotive
Workshop/depots    introduction of specific control points.           availability.
18 GCAA Financial      Review financial system of GCAA and  Completed    Restructuring of financial system of
Study               suggest improvement.                              GCAA resulting in organization
becoming profit making.



18
Table 8 A: Project Costs
SAR
Project Components                Estimate a/   Actual
(US$million)
1. Road Rehab. and Maintenance                      122.60      81.46
2. Railway Rehabilitation                            39.50      42.90
3. Support for Transp. Sector Institutions            4.60       6.21
4. Pilot Program for Road Transport                   2.60       0.98
and Rural Transport
5. Support to National Planning Commission            0.90       1.07
6. PPF Repayment                                      1.40        .27
Base Cost                                           171.60     132.89
Physical Contingencies                               11 60     30.80*
Price Contingencies                                   9.00     28.10*
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  192.20     191.79
Of which taxes                                       21.60    --
TOTAL PROJECT COST (Including Taxes)                213.80     191.79
Interest during Construction                          8.60       8.60
Total Financing Required                            222.40     200.39
a/ From page ii of Appraisal Report
* Contingencies are in respect of the Road Sector.
Tax information not available as goods are cleared Tax Free
Table 8 B: Project Financing
SAR
Source                       Estimate    Actual
(US$ million)
IDA                                                   60.0      65.80
Government of Ghana                                   60.8      47.40
Co-Financing                                         100.5      85.97
Private Sector                                         1.1       1.22
TOTAL                             222.4     200.39



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
SAR Estimates         _          Actual
Selected Roads      Estimated    Costs  | ERR    Actual    Costs        ERR
under TRPI           ADT _       ceds)            ADT    (M cedis)
Cape Coast-Jukwa            500       97.8      39%       642      164.0    31%
Nyakrom-Asikuma             166       114.0     15%       173      176.0      6%
Bawdie-Asankragwa           96        14.7     220%       78       84.0    -15%
Mpohor-Benso                149       42.6      26%       355      61.0      104%
Sunyani-Buoko               606       127.6     16%      300       129.0     24%
Kuntenasi-Bekwai            430       77.0      19%       330      95.0      26%
Wenchi-Menji-Bui            259       95.0      97%       206      94.0      143%
Kintampo-New Longoro        34        101.0     21%       33       134.0      2%
Asikuma-Anyirawase          879       88.0      114%      433      113.7    163%
Koforidua-Mamfe             846       217.0     56%      1,113     616.2     19%
Asamankese-Kade             457       231.0     67%       538      282.4     51%
Somanya-Asutsuare           726       64.3     227%       541      257.0     78%
Bomboi-Bole                 46        219.0     69%       86       76.2      16%
| Tamale-Nawuni              152       185.0     59%       140      78.4      24%
[Weigh                        --      1,674.0    61%       --      2,360.9 [ 42%
Main variances between appraisal estimates and actuals: In certain cases a substantial
change in scope of work and related change in cost has led to substantially lower ERRs after
completion. This is particularly marked in cases where the initial ADT is low, for example
Bawdie-Asankragwa initial ADT 96, after completion ADT 78; and Kintampo-New Longora
initial ADT 34, after completion ADT 33.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement
Text  Covenant  Present   Fulfillmcnt Date           Description of Covenenat                    Comments
Agreement   Ref.      Type      Status   Original  Revised
Credit    3.01       4         CP                        GRC's share of required counterpart  Due to Government's inability to provide
(b) (i)                                       funds for Capital Expenditure for each    the necessary counterpart funds, it was
quarter shall be paid to GRC before the    necessary to re-structure the project and
end of the quarter.                 incrase IDA's share of expenditures to be
financed.
3.01      11         C                        Paymcnt to GRC of Subsidies to meet  Complied
(b)                                          operating losses and subvention for
(ii)                                         Bauxite and Manganese traffic
representing the difference in GRC's
costs and freight charges.
3.01      11        CP                        Provision to GRC of an annual foreign    $0.742 m only was provided and utilized
(b)                                          exchange of not less than $1.5 m      during 1992. No funds were released
(iv)                                          equivalent for purchase of spare parts  during 1993. Release over the period
from 1988 to 1992.                   1988-92 was $4.75 m against $7.5 m due
in terms of this covenant. A provision of
$1.5 m was made in 1994 budget, but not          o
released.
Schedule   5-A-I      11        CP                        Make adequate budgetary allocations for  Since 1991, the allocation have
road maintenance (1988-90)           systematically declined in real terms.
5-A-3     11         C                         Maintain existing Road Fund and release  Although inadequate in absolute terms,
promptly accruals and maintenance   the releases of funds have generally been
budget quarterly.                    regular.
5-B-I     11         CP                        Ensure adequate cost recovery by levying  A road user charges study has been
appropriate road user charges.       completed, but the Road Fund levy on fuel
has not been adjusted upward as required.
5-C       2         C                         Review Transport Sector Study.       Complied
(i)
5-C       12        C                         Submit Action Plan to carry out      Complied
(ii)                                          Transport Sector Program.
5-C       12        C                         Implement Transport Sector Action    An intermodal transport study is
(iii)                                         Plan.                                underway which will lead to identification
of projects to be implemented by
._______  Government.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement (Contd...)
Text  Covenant  Present   Fulfillment Date          Description of Covenenat                    Comments
Agreement  Ref.    Type        Status   Original  Revised
5-D       5         C                        Conclude a performance contract with    Complied
GRC.
5-E      12         C                        Review and re-structure GCAA's tariff    Complied
structure and provide an appropriate cost
recovery program.
5-F      12         C                        Establish and maintain a Transport   Complied
Policy Review Committee.
5-G       9         C                        Hold annual reviews of public        Complied
investment program.
5-H-3     11         C                        Furnish to IDA the 1989 and 1989-93  Complied
(i)                                          road maintenance program including
funding requirements.
5-H-3     11        CP                        Implement a MIS in MRH, GHA and      A study was completed and the MIS
(ii)                                         DFR.                                 partially implemented at GHA and DFR.
5-I      10         C                        Appoint an accountant and a training  Complied
2,3,4                                         officer to assist MOTC, and establish a
Training Steering Committee.         _
Status: C    - Complied with.                              Covenant Class: 7 Involuntary resettlement
CP   - Complied with Partially.                                   8 Indigenous people
Covenant Class: I Accounts/audit.                                         9 Monitoring, review and reporting.
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries.  10 Implementation.
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds.                   11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation.
4 Counterpart funding.                                     12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action.
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency.   13 Other
6 Environmental covenants.



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
I OD 10.60
Accounting, Financial Reporting,   The audit reports were submitted with minor
and Auditing                   delays.
2 OD 12.20                       Received with minor delays.
Special Accounts
3 OP 12.30                       Received with minor delays.
Statement of Expenditure
Table 12:   Bank Resources:   Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Actual
project cycle           Weeks    US$
Through Appraisal          78.4   156.2
Appraisal -- Board         86.5   203.1
Board -- effectiveness      12.8    34.4
Supervision               169.7   429.1
Completion                  0.4      0.6
TOTAL                      347.8   823.4



23
Table 13:    Bank Resources:   Missions
Performance rating
Number                   Specialized         Implemen- Develop-
Stage of            Month/         of    Days in          staff skills          tation        ment    Types of
Project Cycle            Year      Persons   Field         Represented a/           status    objectives problems
Through Appraisal          Feb-86         4         15    FA,EC,STS,RE                  n.a.         n.a.
May-86          4         16    SEC,RE,HE,CONS               n.a.          n.a.
Nov-86         7         19    SEC,SFA,STS,WES,              n.a.         n.a.
CONS,RDCONS,RR
Jan-87         4         9     HE,RR,2-CONS                  n.a.         n.a.
Appraisal through         Apr-87          10        15    SEC,SRE,SFA,STA,              n.a.         n.a.
Board approval                                             STS,HE,3-CONS,OA
Aug-87          1        10    STS                           n.a.         n.a.
Nov-87          1         3     SEC                          n.a.         n.a.
Board approval            Mar-88          2          8     SEC,SFA                      n.a.         n.a.
through effectiveness
Supervision 1              Jun-88         4         9    SEC,SFA,2-CONS                  1             1
Supervision 2             Oct-88          5         6     SEC,RE,HE,2-CONS               2             1      AF,PMP
Supervision 3             Feb-89          1         5    TRS                             --           --
Supervision 4             Mar-89          3         21    SEC,2 HE                       1             1
Supervision 5             Oct-89          3         10    SEC,RE,HE                      2
Supervision 6             Apr-90          3         9     SEC,HE,TS                      2             1
Supervision 7             Oct-90          4         10    SEC,TS,2 HE                    2             1
Supervision 8              Jan-91         5         10    TS,HE,RE,2-CONS                2             1
Supervision 9             Apr-91          1         7     SEC                            --           --
Supervision 10            May-91          5         6     DC,TS,HE,RE,PTS                2             1
Supervision 11            Oct-91          1         8    RE                                           --
Supervision 12            Dec-91          1         17    PTS                                         --
Supervision 13            May-92          1         8    PTS                                          --
Supervision 14             Jun-92         3         10    DC,HE,TS                       2             1
Supervision 15            Dec-92          2         12    STS,CONS                       2            2       PP
Supervision 16            Feb-93          1         7    RE
Supervision 17             Jun-93         3         7    STS,CONS,YP                     2            2       PP
Supervision 18            Nov-93          1         7      STS                           2            2       AF,PP
Supervision 19            Feb-94          1         5      STS                           2             1      AF
Supervision 20             Jul-94         1         6     STS                            S            S
Supervision 21            Oct-94          2         10    STE,MUNE                       S            S       PP
Supervision 22            Mar-95          2         5    STE,MUNE                        S            S
Completion                                                 __._._.___                                       ..
a/ Key to Specialization
FA = Financial Analyst                 DC = Division Chief                           STA = Senior Training Adivsor
EC = Economist                         STS = Senior Transport Specialist             PTS = Prinicpal Transport Specialist
RE = Railway Engineer                  SEC = Senior Economist                        TRS = Training Specialist
HE = Highway Engineer                  SHE = Senior Highway Engineer                 CONS = Consultant
RR = Resident Rep.                     SFA = Senior Financial Analyst                STE = Senior Transport Engineer
OA = Operations Assistant              WES = Workshop Equipment Specialist           MUNE = Munucipal Engineer
TS = Transport Specialist              SRE  Senior Railway Engmeer                   RDCONS = Road Safety Consultant
b/ Key to Status
I = Problem Free                       2 = Moderate problems                         3 = Major Problems
HS = Highly Satisfactory               S = Satisfactory                              U = Unsatisfatory
ct Key to Problems
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants  PMP = Project Management Performance          AF = Availability of Funds
PP = Procurement Progress              TP = Training Progress                        TAP = Technical Asst Progress
SP = Studies Progress                  EA = Environmental Aspects                   FT = inancial Performance



24
APPENDIX: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
MOTC
Introduction
1.    The project was prepared to sustain and consolidate the momentum of Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) launched by Government of Ghana in 1983 with support of IDA and
other donor Agencies. The objectives of the project were for removing physical bottlenecks in
transport infrastructure to expand exports, farm production, labor mobility and raise the efficiency
of Transport Sector through institutional support, technical assistance and training. Promotion of
Low Cost Transport Technology and reduction of accidents by giving attention to Road Safety
were also thrust areas.
2.    The project was implemented with speed and all the objectives set forth were
accomplished as far as MOTC components are concerned.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
3.    The Banks personnel were professional, quick in giving decisions and helpful in all
respects. The Bank supervision missions visited Ghana at adequate intervals and their positive
attitude and clear understanding of local problems led to achievement of the objective of the
project.
Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance and Lessons Learned
Support for Institutional Development and Transport Planning
The institutional capacity of MOTC has been considerably strengthened under the TRPI.
The Ministry has now a full fledged Transport Planning and Implementation Unit. A total of
sixteen courses abroad were arranged in different aspect of transport modes and disciples,
covering all the officers of the Planning and Implementation unit. The MOTC is now able to
handle transport related policy formulation with confidence and execute and monitor the policy
directives and are able to handle project implementation, including procurement and project
accounting.
The MOTC conducted a number of sector studies resulting in improved working of a
number of sub-sectors and leading to Urban Transport Project.
Consultancy Service
The project had provision for a Technical Advisor to advise and train Implementation Unit
staff in project implementation and monitoring and advise on Bank procedure for procurement
and project accounting. The consultancy service was of considerable help to MOTC in
institutional development of the Implementation Unit.



25
There was also a provision of Training Advisor to help in implementation of sector wide
training. This input helped in the success of sector wide training and institutional build up a
training capability.
Sector Wide Training
As part of the project four training Institutes, namely, Accra Technical Training Institute
(ATTC), Kumasi Technical Institute (KTI), National Vocational Technical Institution (NVTI) and
Management Development and Production Institutes (NDPI) were supported by way of
equipment and training aids to train transport sector Mechanics, Drivers and managers mainly of
private sector. The program the was highly successful and this was later extended to cover the
five more training institutes at Wa, Bolgatanga, Kukurantumi, Cape Coast and Sunyani. By the
end of TRPI a total of 2,000 mechanics, 2316 drivers and 1000 managers were trained by the
institutes. In additional 20 GCAA officers and staff were trained abroad in various disciples, as an
institutional build up of GCAA.
Road Safety
A number of steps were taken to combat road safety hazards and to improve accident
scenario. These include:
(i) Development of proper vehicle examination stations seven regional capitals, namely
Accra, Takoradi, Ho, Sunyani, Wa, Cape Coast and Bolgatanga by way of
construction and equipping.
(ii) A proper accident data collection and analysis system was established.
(iii)Black Spots were identified and improvements done.
(iv)National road safety Committee was set up and educational road safety programs
launched
(v) Motor Traffic Police were trained and provided with enforcement aids.
Introduction of Low Cost Intermediate Means of Transport (IMT)
A pilot project for introduction and Commercial production for low cost Intermediate
Means of Transport (IMT) was provided in the project to provide the missing link between head
loaded transport and motorized transport and to alleviate women suffering, as generally the
women carry head load of farm produce to markets. The Technical consultancy Center (TCC) of
University of Science and Technology (UST) was Commissioned for this pilot project and was
given support of Consultancy Services. The TCC developed cycle Trailers (CT) and small Farm
Vehicle (SFV) as part of the IMT pilot project. A number of entrepreneurs have started
manufacture of CTs and SFU.



26
Lines of Credit of Small Garage Owners for Tools and Equipment
The project provided Lines of Credit for small garage owners through Social Security
Bank (SSB) who were the executing agency for these sub-companies. Due to failure of the initial
batch of beneficiaries to pay even interest on loans given, this sub-component failed.
Inter-Modal Terminal
The project provided setting up of a Intermodal Pilot Project at Kumasi under private
sector with Lines of Credit support. The project could not take off due to the Kumasi Freight
Terminal Company's inability to mobilize capital
Lesson Learned
The IMT program could not take off fully in the field due to low buying power of farmers
to purchase bicycles and then CTs, Some financial support to the beneficiary class, who in this
case were poor farmers, should have been part of the project.
Lines of Credit to small garage owners failed because of inadequate guarantees by the
beneficiaries and this aspect should be taken care of in future similar projects.
The Intermodal Terminal Component failed as it was floated without ensuring the private
sectors financial capabilities and without a detailed study of viability of the project. These need
addressing in future projects.
In Civil Works difficulty was faced due to spurts of sudden cedi depreciation whenever
contracts were of short duration and fixed priced contracts. To avoid problems, the contracts
should be awarded in dollars with payment in equivalent cedis at the time of issue of payment
certificates.



27
GHA
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lesson Learned
The Bank personnel were professional in all aspects. The Project Implementation could
be hastened and made smoother, if the Resident Mission is empowered to deal with certain
aspects and to give no objection to some of the proposals of the Borrower. Funding by the IDA
flowed very smoothly. If more payments from IDA Credit could be effected by increasing the
limit of the revolving fund, under SOE in London Account, the Contract Payments could be
quicker.
Evaluation of Borrower's own performance and Lessons Learned
Civil Works:
The Civil Works under the First Transport Rehabilitation Project have been completed.
This has set the pace for trunk road net work stabilization program under the Second Transport
Rehabilitation Project (TRP2). Under the two-year (1988-89) Program, it was envisaged on
trunk roads that 1900 km will be regravelled, 150 km resealed and 780 km resurfaced. It is a
matter of satisfaction that the Government of Ghana has been able to complete with the assistance
of World Bank Credit, periodic maintenance of 1,1 17 km of gravel roads and 623 km of surface-
dressed road. There have been certain initial delays in the award of Civil Works as the tender
processing had to go through various Government channels, especially the ICB contracts, but the
delays have since been minimized.
The shortfall in physical targets is due to the increased unit costs restricting the quantum
of work within the allocated funds and increased burden on local funding that is scarce. During
final stages of implementation the Contractors faced cash flow problems due to high interest rates.
There has been delays in the Bridge Development Program on Trunk Roads due to long
procurement process. The bids originally invited had to be canceled due to high cost quoted. The
bids were subsequently invited and awarded to the lowest responsive bidder.
Consulting Services and Training
Under the Project, there has been a variety of consultancy services such as for design and
supervision of Civil Works, short-term specialized courses in Contract administration, project
management and quality control of Civil Works. The local consultants were benefited by the
Project in the matter of gaining additional expertise in the design and project preparation of road
maintenance works as applicable to local conditions. The Engineers and other professionals in
MRH, GHA and DFR increased their professional knowledge and kept abreast with modern
techniques in their respective fields. The training has helped in equipping the Borrowers
Professionals with advanced knowledge and expertise.



28
Lessons Learned
Description of Civil Works
The design input should be more in order to implement road maintenance works with few
variations. The time allowed for TRP1 studies was about 4 to 5 months only and this short time
limit resulted in review of considerable part of work during execution stage. This should be
avoided and a design/studies period of 12 months should be allowed for future projects.
It also came to light that mere line diagrams would not be adequate for maintenance
works. Detailed drawings of drainage and raising floodable reaches should be prepared before
taking up periodic maintenance works.
Maintenance work in regions of high rainfall and in rolling terrain should be more oriented
towards resurfacing than regravelling since in the latter case, gravel loss and gully formation are
rapid.
All the roads passing through villages/towns should be paved to improve the environment
and safety.
In areas of substantial rainfall and in steep grades, shoulders should be protected by
paving.
Execution of Civil Works:
The gravel roads were allowed a contract period of about 6 months and paved road 12
months for LCB works. For ICB works, a period of 18 months was allowed. Considering the
extent of work involved and experience gained in TRP 1, a period of 12-15 months for
regravelling and 24 months for resurfacing should be allowed. In order to provide a durable
infrastructure, the inherent deficiencies (e.g., drainage and geometric deficiencies in the case of
roads) should be removed first in any maintenance program.
The price bracketing and marking system followed by GHA in evaluating contracts was
not acceptable to the Bank and this put additional strain on Government of Ghana funding.
The funding by the Borrower should be assured and released at the beginning of each
quarter.
The local contractors need training in surfacing works and project administration. Many
of them lack expertise in surface dressing work and in project management.
The Resident Mission of World Bank should be given powers to issue "no objection," to
certain procurements.
All LCB contracts should be approved by the Resident Mission of the Bank.



29
GRC
Evaluation Of Bank's Performance And Lessons Learned
The Bank personnel were professional in all aspects. Their frequent supervision of the project
helped to remove most of the road blocks that affected the implementation of the project,
especially lack of counterpart funds.
When the Bank saw that lack of counterpart funds was affecting the implementation of the
project, it readily amended the Development Credit Agreement to allow the Borrower use the
Bank's funds for the procurement of local materials like wooden sleepers, ballast and creosote oil.
This greatly enhanced the implementation of the track component of the project.
In 1994 the Railway component was restructured and funds were re-allocated as follows:
SUB         DESCRIPTION               ORIGINAL         REVISED
CAT.                               ALLOCATION  ALLOCATION
(US$M)         (US$M)
1.        Track items                     1.200          3.964
2.        Locomotive spares              11130            1.417
3.        Carriage & wagon spares         1.050           1.324
4.        Workshop Modernization          1.820           1.931
5A.       Unspecified (computer work station) 0.250      0.038
5B.       Local component                0.470           0.061
6A.       Technical Assistance           2.530           2.109
6B.       Training                        1.000          0.109
Total                          9.450          10.933
The Bank's quick response to the Borrower's requests regarding reallocation of funds was much
appreciated.



30
Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance and Lessons Learned
Track
Under this component of the project it was envisaged to rehabilitate 268 km of track on
the Eastern Line and 182 km of track on the Central line as well as renewal of 20 points and
crossings each on the two lines to make them safe for speeds up to 30 mph (48 km/h)
As at the end of 1994, 170 km and 143 km of track have been rehabilitated on the Eastern
and Central lines respectively.
With the release of funds by the Bank for the procurement of local items, physical
completion of the project is scheduled for the end of 1995.
This component also covered procurement of track tools and equipment for the
rehabilitation works. The major bottlenecks that caused delay to the completion of this
component of the project. were:
(i) Inadequate counterpart funding.
(ii) Lack of locomotives to convey project materials like wooden sleepers and ballast to
project sites.
(iii) Late procurement of gang trolleys to convey workers to project sites mainly due to
long procurement process. The bids originally invited had to be canceled due to high
cost quoted. The bids were subsequently invited and awarded to the lowest
responsive bidder.
Signaling and Telecommunication (S&T) Systems
This component involved the replacement of existing signaling and telecommunication
systems on the Eastern and Central lines which consisted mechanically operated semaphore
signaling system and miniature staff instruments worked on overhead wires, with Two Aspects
color light solar powered last stop signals and Three Aspects home signals and Tokenless Block
Instruments, along with provision of Section Control and Deputy Control Telephones and
Administrative Trunk on VHF, UHF and Microwave communication system and level crossing
protection systems)s on both lines. This item of the Project was financed under the Italian Credit.
This included erection of 10 microwave towers on the Eastern line and 7 microwave
towers on the Central lines. It also included replacement of Signaling and telecommunication
equipment at 3 5 railway stations on the Eastern line and 23 railway stations on the Central line.
Commencement of the installation phase of the project delayed due to lack of adequate
counterpart fund to pay advance to the contractors, hence the installation works started during the
last quarter of 1990. Inadequate counterpart funds continued to be a problem during the
implementation of the project.



31
Another bottleneck that affected the project was the delay encountered in the registration
of frequencies for the telecommunication equipment. This is holding up the testing and final
acceptance of equipment.
These bottlenecks necessitated the rescheduling of the completion date for the project to
the end of 1995.
Purchase of 3 Locomotives and 40 Wagons
This item of the project did not materialize due to lack of funds. The project was
therefore transferred to the third Railway Rehabilitation Project (TRP-2) Non implementation of
this component affected the realization of the expected benefits.
Though substantial part of the Track Rehabilitation and Replacement of Signaling and
Telecommunication systems component of the project have been completed, the Borrower cannot
run adequate number of trains on the Eastern and Central lines due to lack of locomotives and
wagons..
Modernization and-Repair of Wagons
This component involved the replacement of Plain Journal bearings with roller bearings
on 200 wagons and purchase of spare parts to repair 125 wagons recovered from derailments.
The project has improved the availability of the wagons especially in the haulage of minerals and
timer traffic.
Workshop Modernization
Under the project modern equipment like underfloor wheel profiling machine and
overhead cranes were installed at the workshop to replace the obsolete ones. This has enhanced
productivity at the workshops and also improved availability of wagons and locomotives.
Repair and Overhaul of Locomotives
Originally this component of the project involved the procurement of essential spare parts
to repair locomotives. During one of the Bank's Supervision Mission visit a proposal was made
to the Bank to reallocate funds from the unallocated funds for the intermediate overhaul of 4 No.
721 Class locomotives. This proposal was readily accepted therefore the project was expanded to
include the intermediate overhaul of the locomotives. The overhaul of these locomotives
scheduled to be completed in July, 1995 will enhance passenger traffic carried on our suburban
and branch lines.
Technical, Assistance and Training
Under the project there has been a variety of consultancy services covering management
and operations. These covered the following areas:
(a)   financial management



32
(b)   traffic and commercial management
(c)   engineering covering mechanical, track signaling and telecommunication
(d.)  project supervision
(e)   spare parts management and
(f)   quality assurance systems in workshop/depots.
The consultants' performance generally met the requirements of the project and in achieving the
project benefits. However, in the transfer of skill to the counterparts, there appears to be some
scope of improvement through better planning in the selection and placement of counterpart.
In addition to the consultancy services training both outside the country and outside the
Borrowers Training School were organized for some management staff. The lower level staff
were trained in the Borrower's Training School equipped under the project.
Lessons Learned
Lack of co-financing to purchase locomotives and wagons as well as delays in the release
of counterpart funding adversely affected the implementation of the project.
Consequently the implementation of the project was delayed, which had affected the
realization of the expected benefits. Though substantial part of the project is completed, the
Eastern and Central lines cannot be fully utilized due to lack of locomotive and wagons. This
component of the project has been transferred to TRP-2 that is expected to be completed by the
end of 1996.
In the Borrower's view co-financing and counterpart funding would be assured and
released on timely basis in future projects. This will ensure timely realization of benefits
associated with the project.



33
NDPC
IDA Credit 1858-GH in the sum of $ has been dedicated to support for the National
Development Planning Commission through:
technical assistance
studies and research
human resource capacity building
Technical Assistance
Arrangements under technical assistance provided for the employment of two consultants
Mr. D S Pearson                Economic Planning
Prof BAW Trevallion            Development Policy Administration Spatial Organization
The work carried out by the Consultants is summarized as follows.
D S Pearson,      Period -- Ist September 1993 to 31st December, 1994
National Development Policy Framework, Vols. 1 and II.
Preparatory work on the outline and structure of the reports; preparation of chapter on long-
term Preparatory policy and the current economic situation; editing of chapter on production
policy and economic infrastructure; general editing of divisional inputs to both volumes.
Vision 2020. (The First Step: '1996 -- 2000)
Preparation of development theme on economic growth; preparation of the executive summary;
general editing and coordination of divisional inputs on current level of development, objectives,
opportunities and constraints; construction of flow of funds forecast and macro economic
framework for the medium term; preparation of formats for project profiles,-project memoranda,
project evaluation, financial summaries, coding systems for sectoral and district projects as an
input to Planning, Guidelines for sectors and districts in the preparation of medium term plans.
General
Periodic analysis of the economy published as "Economic Analysis of the Current Economic
Situation"; assistance in preparation) of the Country Strategy Note to provide guidance for
implementation of UN technical cooperation in Ghana; preparation of a situation report on the
work of NDPC since inception of the Board of NDPC.
B.A.W Trevallion, Period -- 14tlh February 1994 to 30th June 1995



34
National Development Policy Framework, Vols. I and H
Preparation of chapters on current spatial organization of economic and social activities
and their implications for development; long-term spatial policies for investment and
development; editing- of chapter on public administration; input into other chapters in relation to
rural development and urbanization.
Vision 2020 (The First Step: 1996 -- 2000)
Preparation of format, content, work program and timetable for the report; preparation
of development themes for Rural Development, Urbanization and the Enabling Environment.
Design of methodology for computation of sectoral and geographical allocations of
development funds over the medium term; notes on the preparation of sectoral and district
medium-term plans for the advice of ministries and District Assemblies in the interpretation of
Vision 2020 (The First Step); format for coordination of Planning Guidelines for assistance of
sectors and districts; preparation of Planning Guidelines in the areas of Rural Development,
Urban Development and an Enabling Environment; methodology for the rationalization and
coordination of sectoral and district medium-term plans; work program and timetable for the
preparation of the first Five Year Rolling Plan.
General
Analysis of spatially relevant phenomena; preparation of training, program for district
and sectoral planners including the training of trainers; assistance in preparation of National Plan
of Action on Food and Nutrition; advice from time to time on the subject of development policy
administration, decentralization and community participation; preparation of a review of
development planning in Ghana since 1920 for the Board of the NDPC; preparation of scheme
of service for NDPC personnel.
Both consultants have attended numerous meetings, workshops and task forces in their areas of
expertise and have provided an experienced back-up-up to the work of NDPC generally. In
view of their separate areas of expertise and experience the consultants have been particularly
valuable to the preparation of both volumes of the National Development Policy Framework
and of Ghana - Vision 2020. (The First Step: 1996 -- 2000). They have also made a
contribution to the overall work of the NDPC.
Studios and Research
IDA credit supported the preparation by PLAN Consult the study "Spatial Variations of Social
and Economic Facilities in Ghana" The latter represented comprehensive research, throughout
all regions and districts, on the availability of economic and social infrastructure and services and
the relationship of these to population levels. Spatial variations were determined by socio-
economic indicators.



35
This study represented presented an essential input into the work of both Social Policy and
environment- I Policy Divisions, enhanced knowledge and added vital information needed in the
analysis of current situations and the evolution of long and medium term policies.
Human Resource Capacity Building
An extensive program of training has been support by IDA credit covering the following:
Training of Trainers
This has been dedicated to training personnel from sectoral and regional planning units in the
interpretation of Vision 2020. (The First Step: 1996 - 2000) and the preparation of sectoral and
district medium-term plans. Forty planners have been trained as trainers.
Regional Workshops on the Preparation of Medium-Term Plans
Regional level personnel from the Training of Trainers' course were responsible for training
district personnel in five separate re-regional workshops covering, a total 220 district staff.
Sectoral Workshops on the Preparation of Medium-Term Plans
Sectoral planners who attended the Training of Trainers course have trained members of staff
within their ministry, and its departments on the preparation of sectoral plans. Approximately 140
members of staff have been involved.
Planning- Orientation Courses
Four workshop courses conducted by UST were held in Kumasi. The objective was to provide an
orientation to the new decentralized planning system, the legal framework within which it
operates, planning, procedures and techniques, project planning, budgeting, monitoring- and
evaluation for newly recruited district planners.
One hundred and sixty planners were involved.
The training program has proved to be vital. Planning Authorities at all levels are deficient in both
numbers of staff and skills. The new decentralized planning system has made heavy demands
upon sectors, districts and regions. Without this project it is most unlikely that the final stage in
the cycle of the planning process could be completed that is the preparation of the Five Year
Rolling Plan.









IMAGING
Report No:      15741
Type: ICFR



